********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected as a result of any of these risks. Risks related to our business and industry Our success depends on our ability to maintain the value and reputation of our brand. The lululemon name is integral to our business as well as to the implementation of our expansion strategies. Maintaining, promoting, and positioning our brand will depend largely on the success of our marketing and merchandising efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high quality product, and guest experience. We rely on social media, as one of our marketing strategies, to have a positive impact on both our brand value and reputation. Our brand and reputation could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve these objectives, if our public image was to be tarnished by negative publicity, which could be amplified by social media, if we fail to deliver innovative and high quality products acceptable to our guests, or if we face or mishandle a product recall. Our reputation could also be impacted by adverse publicity, whether or not valid, regarding allegations that we, or persons associated with us or formerly associated with us, have violated applicable laws or regulations, including but not limited to those related to safety, employment, discrimination, harassment, whistle-blowing, privacy, corporate citizenship, improper business practices, or cybersecurity. Certain activities on the part of stakeholders, including nongovernmental organizations and governmental institutions, could cause reputational damage, distract senior management, and disrupt our business. Additionally, while we devote considerable effort and resources to protecting our intellectual property, if these efforts are not successful the value of our brand may be harmed. Any harm to our brand and reputation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Changes in consumer shopping preferences, and shifts in distribution channels could materially impact our results of operations. We operate an omni-channel retail model and aim to efficiently and effectively serve our guests in the ways most convenient to them. We operate a combination of physical retail locations and e-commerce services via our websites, other region-specific websites, digital marketplaces, and mobile apps. Our physical retail locations remain a key part of our growth strategy and we view them as a valuable tool in helping us build our brand and product line as well as enabling our omni-channel capabilities. We plan to continue to expand square footage and open new company-operated stores to support our growth objectives. The diversion of sales from our company-operated stores could adversely impact our return on investment and could lead to impairment charges and store closures, including lease exit costs. We could have difficulty in recreating the in-store experience through direct channels. Our failure to successfully integrate our digital and physical channels and respond to these risks might adversely impact our business and results of operations, as well as damage our reputation and brand. If any of our products have manufacturing or design defects or are otherwise unacceptable to us or our guests, our business could be harmed. We have occasionally received, and may in the future receive, shipments of products that fail to comply with our technical specifications or that fail to conform to our quality control standards. We have also received, and may in the future receive, products that are otherwise unacceptable to us or our guests. Under these circumstances, unless we are able to obtain replacement products in a timely manner, we risk the loss of net revenue resulting from the inability to sell those products and related increased administrative and shipping costs. Additionally, if the unacceptability of our products is not discovered until after such products are sold, our guests could lose confidence in our products or we could face a product recall and our results of operations could suffer and our business, reputation, and brand could be harmed. 10 Our lululemon Studio subsidiary offers complex hardware and software products and services that can be affected by design and manufacturing defects. Sophisticated operating system software and applications, such as those offered by lululemon Studio, often have issues that can unexpectedly interfere with the intended operation of hardware or software products. Defects may also exist in components and products that we source from third parties. Any defects could make our products and services unsafe and create a risk of environmental or property damage or personal injury and we may become subject to the hazards and uncertainties of product liability claims and related litigation. The occurrence of real or perceived defects in any of our products, now or in the future, could result in additional negative publicity, regulatory investigations, or lawsuits filed against us, particularly if guests or others who use or purchase our lululemon Studio products are injured. Even if injuries are not the result of any defects, if they are perceived to be, we may incur expenses to defend or settle any claims and our brand and reputation may be harmed. We operate in a highly competitive market and our competitors may compete more effectively than we can, resulting in a loss of our market share and a decrease in our net revenue and profitability. The market for technical athletic apparel is highly competitive. Competition may result in pricing pressures, reduced profit margins or lost market share, or a failure to grow or maintain our market share, any of which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We compete directly against wholesalers and direct retailers of athletic apparel, including large, diversified apparel companies with substantial market share, and established companies expanding their production and marketing of technical athletic apparel, as well as against retailers specifically focused on women's athletic apparel. We also face competition from wholesalers and direct retailers of traditional commodity athletic apparel, such as cotton T-shirts and sweatshirts. Many of our competitors are large apparel and sporting goods companies with strong worldwide brand recognition. Because of the fragmented nature of the industry, we also compete with other apparel sellers, including those specializing in yoga apparel and other activewear. Many of our competitors have significant competitive advantages, including longer operating histories, larger and broader customer bases, more established relationships with a broader set of suppliers, greater brand recognition and greater financial, research and development, store development, marketing, distribution, and other resources than we do. Our competitors may be able to achieve and maintain brand awareness and market share more quickly and effectively than we can. We may fail to acknowledge or react appropriately to the entry or growth of a viable competitor or disruptive force, and could struggle to continue to innovate, differentiate, and sustain the growth of our brand. The increasing dominance and presence of our brand may also drive guests towards alternative emerging competitors. In addition, because we hold limited patents and exclusive intellectual property rights in the technology, fabrics or processes underlying our products, our current and future competitors are able to manufacture and sell products with performance characteristics, fabrication techniques, and styling similar to our products. Our sales and profitability may decline as a result of increasing costs and decreasing selling prices. Our business is subject to significant pressure on costs and pricing caused by many factors, including intense competition, constrained sourcing capacity and related inflationary pressure, the availability of qualified labor and wage inflation, pressure from consumers to reduce the prices we charge for our products, and changes in consumer demand. These and other factors have, and may in the future, cause us to experience increased costs, reduce our prices to consumers or experience reduced sales in response to increased prices, any of which could cause our operating margin to decline if we are unable to offset these factors with reductions in operating costs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. If we are unable to anticipate consumer preferences and successfully develop and introduce new, innovative, and differentiated products, we may not be able to maintain or increase our sales and profitability. Our success depends on our ability to identify and originate product trends as well as to anticipate and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. All of our products are subject to changing consumer preferences that cannot be predicted with certainty. If we are unable to introduce new products or novel technologies in a timely manner or our new products or technologies are not accepted by our guests, our competitors may introduce similar products in a more timely fashion, which could hurt our goal to be viewed as a leader in technical athletic apparel innovation. Our new products may not receive consumer acceptance as consumer preferences could shift rapidly to different types of athletic apparel or away from these types of products altogether, and our future success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes. Our failure to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing consumer preferences could lead to, among other things, lower sales and excess inventory levels. We may not have relevant data to effectively understand and react to consumer preferences and expectations. Even if we are successful in anticipating consumer preferences, our ability to adequately react to and address those preferences will in part depend upon our continued ability to develop and introduce innovative, high-quality products. Our failure to effectively introduce new products that are accepted by consumers could 11 result in a decrease in net revenue and excess inventory levels, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our results of operations could be materially harmed if we are unable to accurately forecast guest demand for our products. To ensure adequate inventory supply, we must forecast inventory needs and place orders with our manufacturers based on our estimates of future demand for particular products. Our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products could be affected by many factors, including an increase or decrease in guest demand for our products or for products of our competitors, our failure to accurately forecast guest acceptance of new products, product introductions by competitors, unanticipated changes in general market conditions (for example, because of global economic concerns such as inflation, an economic downturn, or delays and disruptions resulting from local and international shipping delays and labor shortages), and weakening of economic conditions or consumer confidence in future economic conditions (for example, because of inflationary pressures, or because of sanctions, restrictions, and other responses related to geopolitical events). If we fail to accurately forecast guest demand, we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of products available for sale in our stores or for delivery to guests. Inventory levels in excess of guest demand may result in inventory write-downs or write-offs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which would cause our gross margin to suffer and could impair the strength and exclusivity of our brand. Conversely, if we underestimate guest demand for our products, our manufacturers may not be able to deliver products to meet our requirements, and this could result in damage to our reputation and guest relationships. Our limited operating experience and limited brand recognition in new international markets and new product categories may limit our expansion and cause our business and growth to suffer. Our future growth depends in part on our expansion efforts outside of the Americas. We have limited experience with regulatory environments and market practices internationally, and we may not be able to penetrate or successfully operate in any new market. In connection with our expansion efforts we may encounter obstacles we did not face in the Americas, including cultural and linguistic differences, differences in regulatory environments, labor practices and market practices, difficulties in keeping abreast of market, business and technical developments, and international guests' tastes and preferences. We may also encounter difficulty expanding into new international markets because of limited brand recognition leading to delayed acceptance of our technical athletic apparel by guests in these new international markets. Our failure to develop our business in new international markets or disappointing growth outside of existing markets could harm our business and results of operations. In addition, our continued growth depends in part on our ability to expand our product categories and introduce new product lines. We may not be able to successfully manage integration of new product categories or the new product lines with our existing products. Selling new product categories and lines will require our management to test and develop different strategies in order to be successful. We may be unsuccessful in entering new product categories and developing or launching new product lines, which requires management of new suppliers, potential new customers, and new business models. Our management may not have the experience of selling in these new product categories and we may not be able to grow our business as planned. For example, in July 2020, we acquired MIRROR, an in-home fitness company with an interactive workout platform that features live and on-demand classes. If we are unable to effectively and successfully further develop these and future new product categories and lines, we may not be able to increase or maintain our sales and our operating margins may be adversely affected. This may also divert the attention of management and cause additional expenses. We may, from time to time, evaluate and pursue other strategic investments or acquisitions. These involve various inherent risks and the benefits sought may not be realized. If we continue to grow at a rapid pace, we may not be able to effectively manage our growth and the increased complexity of our business and as a result our brand image and financial performance may suffer. If our operations continue to grow at a rapid pace, we may experience difficulties in obtaining sufficient raw materials and manufacturing capacity to produce our products, as well as delays in production and shipments, as our products are subject to risks associated with overseas sourcing and manufacturing. We could be required to continue to expand our sales and marketing, product development and distribution functions, to upgrade our management information systems and other processes and technology, and to obtain more space for our expanding workforce. This expansion could increase the strain on our resources, and we could experience operating difficulties, including difficulties in hiring, training, and managing an increasing number of employees. These difficulties could result in the erosion of our brand image which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 12 We are subject to risks associated with leasing retail and distribution space subject to long-term and non-cancelable leases. We lease the majority of our stores under operating leases and our inability to secure appropriate real estate or lease terms could impact our ability to grow. Our leases generally have initial terms of between two and 15 years, and generally can be extended in increments between two and five years, if at all. We generally cannot cancel these leases at our option. If an existing or new store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, as we have done in the past and may do in the future, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term. Similarly, we may be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable leases even if current locations of our stores become unattractive as demographic patterns change. In addition, as each of our leases expire, we may fail to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could require us to close stores in desirable locations. We also lease the majority of our distribution centers and our inability to secure appropriate real estate or lease terms could impact our ability to deliver our products to the market. Our future success is substantially dependent on the service of our senior management and our ability to maintain our culture and to attract, manage, and retain highly qualified individuals. The performance of our senior management team and other key employees may not meet our needs and expectations. Also, the loss of services of any of these key employees, or any negative public perception with respect to these individuals, may be disruptive to, or cause uncertainty in, our business and could have a negative impact on our ability to manage and grow our business effectively. Such disruption could have a material adverse impact on our financial performance, financial condition, and the market price of our stock. If we are unable to successfully maintain and evolve our unique culture, offer competitive compensation and benefits, and a desirable work model, we may be unable to attract and retain highly qualified individuals to support our business and continued growth. Our work model may not meet the needs and expectations of our employees and may not be perceived as favorable compared to other companies. Unionization efforts or other employee organizing activities could lead to higher people costs or reduce our flexibility to manage our employees which may negatively disrupt our operations. We also face risks related to employee engagement and productivity which could result in increased headcount and lead to increased labor costs. Our business is affected by seasonality, which could result in fluctuations in our operating results. Our business is affected by the general seasonal trends common to the retail apparel industry. Our annual net revenue is typically weighted more heavily toward our fourth fiscal quarter, reflecting our historical strength in sales during the holiday season, while our operating expenses are more equally distributed throughout the year. This seasonality, along with other factors that are beyond our control, including weather conditions and the effects of climate change, could adversely affect our business and cause our results of operations to fluctuate. Risks related to our supply chain Disruptions of our supply chain could have a material adverse effect on our operating and financial results. Disruption of our supply chain capabilities due to trade restrictions, political instability, severe weather, natural disasters, public health crises, war, terrorism, product recalls, labor supply shortages or stoppages, the financial or operational instability of key suppliers and carriers, changes in diplomatic or trade relationships (including any sanctions, restrictions, and other responses such as those related to current geopolitical events), or other reasons could impair our ability to distribute our products. To the extent we are unable to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, there could be a material adverse effect on our operating and financial results. We rely on international suppliers and any significant disruption to our supply chain could impair our ability to procure or distribute our products. We do not manufacture our products or raw materials and rely on suppliers and manufacturers located predominantly in APAC and China Mainland. We also source other materials used in our products, including items such as content labels, elastics, buttons, clasps, and drawcords, from suppliers located primarily in this region. Based on cost, during 2023: • Approximately 42% of our products were manufactured in Vietnam, 16% in Cambodia, 11% in Sri Lanka, 10% in Indonesia, and 8% in Bangladesh, and the remainder in other regions. 13 • Approximately 40% of the fabric used in our products originated from Taiwan, 26% from China Mainland, 12% from Sri Lanka, and the remainder from other regions. The entire apparel industry, including our company, could face supply chain challenges as a result of the impacts of global public health crises, political instability, inflationary pressures, macroeconomic conditions, and other factors, including reduced freight availability and increased costs, port disruption, manufacturing facility closures, and related labor shortages and other supply chain disruptions. Our supply chain capabilities may be disrupted due to these or other factors, such as severe weather, natural disasters, war or other military conflicts, terrorism, labor supply shortages or stoppages, the financial or operational instability of key suppliers or the countries in which they operate, or changes in diplomatic or trade relationships (including any sanctions, restrictions, and other responses to geopolitical events). Any significant disruption in our supply chain capabilities could impair our ability to procure or distribute our products, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. A relatively small number of vendors supply and manufacture a significant portion of our products, and losing one or more of these vendors could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Many of the specialty fabrics used in our products are technically advanced textile products developed and manufactured by third parties and may be available, in the short-term, from only one or a limited number of sources. We have no long-term contracts with any of our suppliers or manufacturers for the production and supply of our raw materials and products, and we compete with other companies for fabrics, other raw materials, and production. During 2023, we worked with approximately 49 vendors to manufacture our products and 67 suppliers to provide the fabric for our products. Based on cost, during 2023: • Approximately 55% of our products were manufactured by our top five vendors, the largest of which produced approximately 17% of our products; and • Approximately 52% of our fabrics were produced by our top five fabric suppliers, the largest of which produced approximately 19% of fabric used. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, a significant disruption in the supply of fabrics or raw materials and may be unable to locate alternative suppliers of comparable quality at an acceptable price, or at all. In addition, if we experience significant increased demand, or if we need to replace an existing supplier or manufacturer, we may be unable to locate additional supplies of fabrics or raw materials or additional manufacturing capacity on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, or we may be unable to locate any supplier or manufacturer with sufficient capacity to meet our requirements or fill our orders in a timely manner. Identifying a suitable supplier is an involved process that requires us to become satisfied with its quality control, responsiveness and service, financial stability, and labor and other ethical practices. Even if we are able to expand existing or find new manufacturing or fabric sources, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train our suppliers and manufacturers in our methods, products, and quality control standards. Our supply of fabric or manufacture of our products could be disrupted or delayed by economic or political or global health conditions, and the related government and private sector responsive actions such as closures, restrictions on product shipments, and travel restrictions. Delays related to supplier changes could also arise due to an increase in shipping times if new suppliers are located farther away from our markets or from other participants in our supply chain. In addition, freight capacity issues continue to persist worldwide as there is much greater demand for shipping and reduced capacity and equipment. Any delays, interruption, or increased costs in the supply of fabric or manufacture of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet guest demand for our products and result in lower net revenue and income from operations both in the short and long term. Our business could be harmed if our suppliers and manufacturers do not comply with our Vendor Code of Ethics or applicable laws. While we require our suppliers and manufacturers to comply with our Vendor Code of Ethics, which includes labor, health and safety, and environment standards, we do not control their operations. If suppliers or contractors do not comply with these standards or applicable laws or there is negative publicity regarding the production methods of any of our suppliers or manufacturers, even if unfounded or not specific to our supply chain, our reputation and sales could be adversely affected, we could be subject to legal liability, or could cause us to contract with alternative suppliers or manufacturing sources. 14 The fluctuating cost of raw materials could increase our cost of goods sold. The fabrics used to make our products include synthetic fabrics whose raw materials include petroleum-based products. Our products also include silver and natural fibers, including cotton. Our costs for raw materials are affected by, among other things, weather, consumer demand, speculation on the commodities market, the relative valuations and fluctuations of the currencies of producer versus consumer countries, and other factors that are generally unpredictable and beyond our control. Any and all of these factors may be exacerbated by global climate change. In addition, political instability, trade relations, sanctions, inflationary pressure, or other geopolitical or economic conditions could cause raw material costs to increase and have an adverse effect on our future margins. Increases in the cost of raw materials, including petroleum or the prices we pay for silver and our cotton yarn and cotton-based textiles, could have a material adverse effect on our cost of goods sold, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. If we encounter problems with our distribution system, our ability to deliver our products to the market and to meet guest expectations could be harmed. We rely on our distribution facilities for substantially all of our product distribution. Our distribution facilities include computer controlled and automated equipment, which means their operations may be subject to a number of risks related to security or computer viruses, the proper operation of software and hardware, electronic or power interruptions, or other system failures. In addition, our operations could also be interrupted by labor difficulties, pandemics, the impacts of climate change, extreme or severe weather conditions or by floods, fires, or other natural disasters near our distribution centers. If we encounter problems with our distribution system, our ability to meet guest expectations, manage inventory, complete sales, and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies could be harmed. Increasing labor costs and other factors associated with the production of our products in South Asia and South East Asia could increase the costs to produce our products. A significant portion of our products are produced in South Asia and South East Asia and increases in the costs of labor and other costs of doing business in the countries in this area could significantly increase our costs to produce our products and could have a negative impact on our operations and earnings. Factors that could negatively affect our business include labor shortages and increases in labor costs, labor disputes, pandemics, the impacts of climate change, difficulties and additional costs in transporting products manufactured from these countries to our distribution centers and significant revaluation of the currencies used in these countries, which may result in an increase in the cost of producing products. Also, the imposition of trade sanctions or other regulations against products imported by us from, or the loss of "normal trade relations" status with any country in which our products are manufactured, could significantly increase our cost of products and harm our business. Risks related to information security and technology We may be unable to safeguard against security breaches which could damage our customer relationships and result in significant legal and financial exposure. As part of our normal operations, we receive confidential, proprietary, and personally identifiable information, including credit card information, and information about our customers, our employees, job applicants, and other third parties. Our business employs systems and websites that allow for the storage and transmission of this information. However, despite our safeguards and security processes and protections, security breaches could expose us to a risk of theft or misuse of this information, and could result in litigation and potential liability. The retail industry, in particular, has been the target of many recent cyber-attacks. We may not have the resources or technical sophistication to be able to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks. Attacks may be targeted at us, our vendors or customers, or others who have entrusted us with information. In addition, despite taking measures to safeguard our information security and privacy environment from security breaches, our customers and our business could still be exposed to risk. Actual or anticipated attacks may cause us to incur increasing costs including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees and engage third party experts and consultants. Advances in computer capabilities, new technological discoveries or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect transaction or other data being breached or compromised. Measures we implement to protect against cyber-attacks may also have the potential to impact our customers' shopping experience or decrease activity on our websites by making them more difficult to use. Data and security breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues including intentional or inadvertent breach by employees or persons with whom we have commercial relationships that result in the unauthorized release of personal or 15 confidential information. Any compromise or breach of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, and damage to our brand and reputation or other harm to our business. In addition, the increased use of employee-owned devices for communications as well as work-from-home arrangements present additional operational risks to our technology systems, including increased risks of cyber-attacks. Further, like other companies in the retail industry, we have in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, cyber-attacks, including phishing, and other attempts to breach, or gain unauthorized access to, our systems. To date, these attacks have not had a material impact on our operations, but they may have a material impact in the future. Privacy and data protection laws increase our compliance burden. We are subject to a variety of privacy and data protection laws and regulations that change frequently and have requirements that vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. For example, we are subject to significant compliance obligations under privacy laws such as the General Data Privacy Regulation ("GDPR") in the European Union, the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (“PIPEDA”) in Canada, the California Consumer Privacy Act ("CCPA") modified by the California Privacy Rights Act (“CPRA”), and the Personal Information Protection Law (“PIPL”) in the People's Republic of China ("PRC") (6) . Some privacy laws prohibit the transfer of personal information to certain other jurisdictions. We are subject to privacy and data protection audits or investigations by various government agencies. Our failure to comply with these laws subjects us to potential regulatory enforcement activity, fines, private litigation including class actions, and other costs. Our efforts to comply with privacy laws may complicate our operations and add to our compliance costs. A significant privacy breach or failure or perceived failure by us or our third-party service providers to comply with privacy or data protection laws, regulations, policies or regulatory guidance might have a materially adverse impact on our reputation, business operations and our financial condition or results of operations. Disruption of our technology systems or unexpected network interruption could disrupt our business. We are increasingly dependent on technology systems and third-parties to operate our e-commerce websites, process transactions, respond to guest inquiries, manage inventory, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis, and maintain cost-efficient operations. The failure of our technology systems to operate properly or effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or difficulty in integrating new systems, could adversely affect our business. In addition, we have e-commerce websites in the United States, Canada, and internationally. Our technology systems, websites, and operations of third parties on whom we rely, may encounter damage or disruption or slowdown caused by a failure to successfully upgrade systems, system failures, viruses, computer "hackers", natural disasters, or other causes. These could cause information, including data related to guest orders, to be lost or delayed which could, especially if the disruption or slowdown occurred during the holiday season, result in delays in the delivery of products to our stores and guests or lost sales, which could reduce demand for our products and cause our sales to decline. The concentration of our primary offices, several of our distribution centers, and a number of our stores along the west coast of North America could amplify the impact of a natural disaster occurring in that area to our business, including to our technology systems. In addition, if changes in technology cause our information systems to become obsolete, or if our information systems are inadequate to handle our growth, we could lose guests. We have limited back-up systems and redundancies, and our technology systems and websites have experienced system failures and electrical outages in the past which have disrupted our operations. Any significant disruption in our technology systems or websites could harm our reputation and credibility, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our technology-based systems that give our customers the ability to shop with us online may not function effectively. Many of our customers shop with us through our e-commerce websites and mobile apps. Increasingly, customers are using tablets and smart phones to shop online with us and with our competitors and to do comparison shopping. We are increasingly using social media and proprietary mobile apps to interact with our customers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience. Any failure on our part to provide attractive, effective, reliable, user-friendly e-commerce platforms that offer a wide assortment of merchandise with rapid delivery options and that continually meet the changing expectations of online shoppers could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of e-commerce and other sales, harm our (6) PRC includes China Mainland, Hong Kong SAR, Taiwan, and Macau SAR. 16 reputation with customers, have a material adverse impact on the growth of our e-commerce business globally and could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Risks related to environmental, social, and governance issues Climate change, and related legislative and regulatory responses to climate change, may adversely impact our business. There is increasing concern that a gradual rise in global average temperatures due to increased concentration of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere will cause significant changes in weather patterns around the globe, an increase in the frequency, severity, and duration of extreme weather conditions and natural disasters, and water scarcity and poor water quality. These events could adversely impact the cultivation of cotton, which is a key resource in the production of our products, disrupt the operation of our supply chain and the productivity of our contract manufacturers, increase our production costs, impose capacity restraints and impact the types of apparel products that consumers purchase. These events could also compound adverse economic conditions and impact consumer confidence and discretionary spending. As a result, the effects of climate change could have a long-term adverse impact on our business and results of operations. In many countries, governmental bodies are enacting new or additional legislation and regulations to reduce or mitigate the potential impacts of climate change. If we, our suppliers, or our contract manufacturers are required to comply with these laws and regulations, or if we choose to take voluntary steps to reduce or mitigate our impact on climate change, we may experience increased costs for energy, production, transportation, and raw materials, increased capital expenditures, or increased insurance premiums and deductibles, which could adversely impact our operations. Inconsistency of legislation and regulations among jurisdictions may also affect the costs of compliance with such laws and regulations. Any assessment of the potential impact of future climate change legislation, regulations or industry standards, as well as any international treaties and accords, is uncertain given the wide scope of potential regulatory change in the countries in which we operate. Increased scrutiny from investors and others regarding our environmental, social, governance, or sustainability, responsibilities could result in additional costs or risks and adversely impact our reputation, employee retention, and willingness of customers and suppliers to do business with us. Investor and political advocacy groups, certain institutional investors, investment funds, other market participants, stockholders, and customers have focused increasingly on the environmental, social and governance ("ESG") practices of companies, including those associated with climate change and social responsibility. These parties have placed increased importance on the implications of the social cost of their investments. If our ESG practices do not meet customer, investor, employee, or other stakeholder expectations or do not align with their opinions or values, our brand, reputation, employee retention, and business may be negatively impacted. Any sustainability report that we publish or other ESG disclosures we make may include our policies and practices on a variety of social and ethical matters, including corporate governance, environmental compliance, employee health and safety practices, human capital management, product quality, supply chain management, and workforce inclusion and diversity. It is possible that stakeholders may not be satisfied with our ESG policies or practices, including if we overstate the impact of our ESG practices, and this could reduce demand for our products and lead to regulatory enforcement that could restrict our ability to market and sell our products. We could also incur additional costs and require additional resources to monitor, report, and comply with various ESG practices. Also, our failure, or perceived failure, to meet the standards included in any sustainability disclosure could negatively impact our reputation, employee retention, and the willingness of our customers and suppliers to do business with us. Risks related to global economic, political, and regulatory conditions An economic recession, depression, downturn, periods of inflation, or economic uncertainty in our key markets may adversely affect consumer discretionary spending and demand for our products. Many of our products may be considered discretionary items for consumers. Some of the factors that may influence consumer spending on discretionary items include general economic conditions, high levels of unemployment, pandemics, higher consumer debt levels, reductions in net worth based on market declines and uncertainty, home foreclosures and reductions in home values, fluctuating interest and foreign currency exchange rates and credit availability, government austerity measures, fluctuating fuel and other energy costs, fluctuating commodity prices, inflationary pressure, tax rates and general uncertainty regarding the overall future economic environment. Global economic conditions are uncertain and volatile, due in part to the potential impacts of increasing inflation, the potential impacts of geopolitical uncertainties, and any potential sanctions, restrictions or responses to those conditions. For example, the PRC market presents a number of risks, including changes in laws and regulations, currency fluctuations, increased competition, and changes in economic conditions, including the risk of an economic downturn or recession, trade embargoes, restrictions or other barriers, as well as other conditions that may adversely impact consumer spending, any of which could cause us to fail to achieve anticipated growth. As global economic conditions continue to be volatile or economic uncertainty remains, trends in consumer discretionary 17 spending also remain unpredictable and subject to reductions due to credit constraints and uncertainties about the future. Unfavorable economic conditions may lead consumers to delay or reduce purchases of our products. Consumer demand for our products may not reach our targets, or may decline, when there is an economic downturn or economic uncertainty in our key markets. Our sensitivity to economic cycles and any related fluctuation in consumer demand may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our financial condition could be adversely affected by global or regional health events such as the COVID-19 pandemic and related government, private sector, and individual consumer responsive actions. The COVID-19 pandemic negatively impacted the global economy, disrupted consumer spending and global supply chains, and created significant volatility and disruption of financial markets. The COVID-19 pandemic and related government, private sector, and individual consumer responsive actions negatively impacted our business operations, store traffic, employee availability, supply chain, financial condition, liquidity, and cash flows. The occurrence or resurgence of global or regional health events such as the COVID-19 pandemic, and the related governmental, private sector and individual consumer responses, could contribute to a recession, depression, or global economic downturn, reduce store traffic and consumer spending, result in temporary or permanent closures of retail locations, offices, and factories, and could negatively impact the flow of goods. Such events could cause health officials to impose restrictions and recommend precautions to mitigate the health crisis such as the temporary closure of our stores, limitations on the number of guests allowed in our stores at any single time, minimum physical distancing requirements, and limited operating hours. A health event such as the COVID-19 pandemic could also negatively impact our employees, guests, and brand by reducing consumer willingness to visit stores, malls, and lifestyle centers, and employee willingness to staff our stores. A global or regional health event may also cause long-term changes to consumer shopping behavior, preferences and demand for our products that may have a material adverse effect on our business. A global or regional health event such as the COVID-19 pandemic could significantly and adversely impact our supply chain if the factories that manufacture our products, the distribution centers where we manage our inventory, or the operations of our logistics and other service providers are disrupted, temporarily closed, or experience worker shortages. Global economic and political conditions could adversely impact our results of operations. Uncertain or challenging global economic and political conditions could impact our performance, including our ability to successfully expand internationally. Global economic conditions could impact levels of consumer spending in the markets in which we operate, which could impact our sales and profitability. Political unrest, such as the turmoil related to current geopolitical events and the related sanctions, restrictions, or other responses, could negatively impact our guests and employees, reduce consumer spending, and adversely impact our business and results of operations. We may be unable to source and sell our merchandise profitably or at all if new trade restrictions are imposed or existing restrictions become more burdensome. The United States and the countries in which our products are produced or sold have imposed and may impose additional quotas, duties, tariffs, or other restrictions or regulations, or may adversely adjust prevailing quota, duty, or tariff levels. The results of any audits or related disputes regarding these restrictions or regulations could have an adverse effect on our financial statements for the period or periods for which the applicable final determinations are made. Countries impose, modify, and remove tariffs and other trade restrictions in response to a diverse array of factors, including global and national economic and political conditions, which make it impossible for us to predict future developments regarding tariffs and other trade restrictions. Trade restrictions, including tariffs, quotas, embargoes, safeguards, and customs restrictions, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of products available to us, could increase shipping times, or may require us to modify our supply chain organization or other current business practices, any of which could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are dependent on international trade agreements and regulations. The countries in which we produce and sell our products could impose or increase tariffs, duties, or other similar charges that could negatively affect our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. Adverse changes in, or withdrawal from, trade agreements or political relationships between the United States and the PRC, Canada, or other countries where we sell or source our products, could negatively impact our results of operations or cash flows. General geopolitical instability and the responses to it, such as the possibility of sanctions, trade restrictions, and changes in tariffs, including sanctions against the PRC, tariffs imposed by the United States and the PRC, and the possibility of additional tariffs or other trade restrictions, could adversely impact our business. It is possible that further tariffs may be introduced, or increased. Such changes could adversely impact our business and could increase the costs of sourcing our 18 products from the PRC as well as other countries, or could require us to source our products from different countries. The Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act and other similar legislation may lead to greater supply chain compliance costs and delays to us and to our vendors. Changes in tax laws or unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect our effective income tax rate and profitability. We are subject to the income tax laws of the United States, Canada, and several other international jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rates could be unfavorably impacted by a number of factors, including changes in the mix of earnings amongst countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws, new tax interpretations and guidance, the outcome of income tax audits in various jurisdictions around the world, and any repatriation of unremitted earnings for which we have not previously accrued applicable U.S. income taxes and international withholding taxes. Repatriations from our Canadian subsidiaries are not subject to Canadian withholding taxes if such distributions are made as a return of capital. The extent to which the accumulated earnings of our Canadian subsidiaries can be repatriated as a return of capital is dependent on, among other things, the amount of paid-up-capital in our Canadian subsidiaries and transactions undertaken by our exchangeable shareholders. Prior to 2022, we had not accrued for Canadian withholding taxes because the accumulated earnings of, or 'net investment' in, our Canadian subsidiaries was either indefinitely reinvested or could be repatriated as a return of capital without the payment of withholding taxes. Since 2022, the net investment in our Canadian subsidiaries, which was not indefinitely reinvested, exceeded the paid-up capital and therefore we recognized Canadian withholding taxes on the portion of our net investment which we are unable to repatriate free of withholding tax. In 2024, assuming there are no exchange transactions by our exchangeable shareholders, we will continue to recognize Canadian withholding taxes on the accumulated earnings of our Canadian subsidiaries which are not indefinitely reinvested. We engage in a number of intercompany transactions across multiple tax jurisdictions. Although we believe that these transactions reflect the accurate economic allocation of profit and that proper transfer pricing documentation is in place, the profit allocation and transfer pricing terms and conditions may be scrutinized by local tax authorities during an audit and any resulting changes may impact our mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates. At the end of 2020, our Advance Pricing Arrangement ("APA") with the Internal Revenue Service and the Canada Revenue Agency expired. This APA stipulated the allocation of certain profits between the U.S. and Canada. We are currently in the process of negotiating the renewal of this arrangement and the final agreed upon terms and conditions thereof could impact our effective tax rate. Current economic and political conditions make tax rules in any jurisdiction, including the United States and Canada, subject to significant change. Changes in applicable U.S., Canadian, or other international tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation and application, including the possibility of retroactive effect, could affect our income tax expense and profitability, as they did in fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2018 upon passage of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, and in 2020 with the passage of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act. Certain provisions of the Inflation Reduction Act passed in 2022, including a 15% corporate alternative minimum tax, as well as the similar 15% global minimum tax under the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development's Pillar Two Global Anti-Base Erosion Rules, may impact our income tax expense, profitability, and capital allocation decisions. Our failure to comply with trade and other regulations could lead to investigations or actions by government regulators and negative publicity. The labeling, distribution, importation, marketing, and sale of our products, as well as components of our products, including chemicals, are subject to extensive regulation by various regulatory bodies. These include federal agencies such as the Federal Trade Commission, Consumer Product Safety Commission and state attorneys general in the United States, the Competition Bureau and Health Canada in Canada, the State Administration for Market Regulation of the PRC, General Administration of Customs of the PRC, as well as other federal, state, provincial, local, and international regulatory authorities in the countries in which our products are distributed or sold. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could become subject to enforcement actions or the imposition of significant penalties or claims, which could harm our results of operations or our ability to conduct our business. In addition, any audits and inspections by governmental agencies related to these matters could result in significant settlement amounts, damages, fines, or other penalties, divert financial and management resources, and result in significant legal fees. An unfavorable outcome of any particular proceeding could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, the adoption of new regulations 19 or changes in the interpretation of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or discontinuation of product sales and could impair the marketing of our products, resulting in significant loss of net revenue. Our international operations are also subject to compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and other anti-bribery laws applicable to our operations. In many countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it may be a local custom that businesses operating in such countries engage in business practices that are prohibited by the FCPA or other U.S. and international laws and regulations applicable to us. As we expand our operations across multiple jurisdictions, we could be subject to conflicting laws, or differing consumer sentiment on application of laws, that could lead to non-compliance which could have an adverse effect on our operations. Although we have implemented procedures designed to ensure compliance with the FCPA and similar laws, some of our employees, agents, or other partners, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, could take actions in violation of our policies. Any such violation could have a material and adverse effect on our business. As we expand internationally, we are subject to complex employee regulations, and if we fail to comply with these regulations, we could be subject to enforcement actions or negative employee relations which could harm our results of operations. Because a significant portion of our net revenue and expenses are generated in countries other than the United States, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have affected our results of operations and may continue to do so in the future. The functional currency of our international subsidiaries is generally the applicable local currency. Our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars. Therefore, the net revenue, expenses, assets, and liabilities of our international subsidiaries are translated from their functional currencies into U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar affect the reported amounts of net revenue, expenses, assets, and liabilities. Foreign currency exchange differences which arise on translation of our international subsidiaries' balance sheets into U.S. dollars are recorded as other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss within stockholders' equity. We also have exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates associated with transactions which are undertaken by our subsidiaries in currencies other than their functional currency. Such transactions include intercompany transactions and inventory purchases denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the purchasing entity. As a result, we have been impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates and may be impacted for the foreseeable future. The potential impact of currency fluctuation increases as our international expansion increases. Although we use financial instruments to hedge certain foreign currency risks, these measures may not succeed in fully offsetting the negative impact of foreign currency rate movements. We are exposed to credit-related losses in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to forward currency contracts used in our hedging strategies. Risks related to intellectual property Our fabrics and manufacturing technology generally are not patented and can be imitated by our competitors. If our competitors sell products similar to ours at lower prices, our net revenue and profitability could suffer. The intellectual property rights in the technology, fabrics, and processes used to manufacture our products generally are owned or controlled by our suppliers and are generally not unique to us. Our ability to obtain intellectual property protection for our products is therefore limited. We hold limited patents and exclusive intellectual property rights in the technology, fabrics or processes underlying our products. As a result, our current and future competitors are able to manufacture and sell products with performance characteristics, fabrics and styling similar to our products. Because many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, distribution, marketing, and other resources than we do, they may be able to manufacture and sell products based on our fabrics and manufacturing technology at lower prices than we can. If our competitors sell products similar to ours at lower prices, our net revenue and profitability could suffer. Our failure or inability to protect our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brand and weaken our competitive position. We currently rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, trade dress, trade secret, and unfair competition laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. The steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent infringement of these rights by others, including imitation of our products and misappropriation of our brand. In addition, any of our intellectual 20 property rights may be challenged, which could result in them being narrowed in scope or declared invalid or unenforceable, or our intellectual property protection may be unavailable or limited in some international countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect our intellectual property rights as fully as in the United States or Canada, and it may be more difficult for us to successfully challenge the use of our intellectual property rights by other parties in these countries. If we fail to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights, the value of our brand could be diminished, and our competitive position may suffer. Our trademarks, patents, and other proprietary rights could potentially conflict with the rights of others and we may be prevented from selling some of our products. Our success depends in large part on our brand image. We believe that our trademarks, patents, and other proprietary rights have significant value and are important to identifying and differentiating our products from those of our competitors and creating and sustaining demand for our products. We have applied for and obtained some United States, Canada, and international trademark registrations and patents, and will continue to evaluate additional trademarks and patents as appropriate. However, some or all of these pending trademark or patent applications may not be approved by the applicable governmental authorities. Moreover, even if the applications are approved, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge these applications or registrations. Additionally, we may face obstacles as we expand our product line and the geographic scope of our sales and marketing. Third parties may assert intellectual property claims against us, particularly as we expand our business and the number of products we offer. Our defense of any claim, regardless of its merit, could be expensive and time consuming and could divert management resources. Successful infringement claims against us could result in significant monetary liability or prevent us from selling some of our products. In addition, resolution of claims may require us to redesign our products, license rights from third parties, or cease using those rights altogether. Any of these events could harm our business and cause our results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition to suffer. We have been, and in the future may be, sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in our market, and litigation, based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property, is frequent in the fitness and technology industries. Furthermore, it is common for individuals and groups to purchase patents and other intellectual property assets for the purpose of making claims of infringement to extract settlements from companies like ours. Our use of third-party content, including music content, software, and other intellectual property rights may be subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation. We cannot guarantee that our internally developed or acquired technologies and content do not or will not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. From time to time, our competitors or other third parties may claim that we are infringing upon or misappropriating their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing upon such rights. Any claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages or ongoing royalty payments, prevent us from offering our platform or services or using certain technologies, force us to implement expensive work-arounds, or impose other unfavorable terms. We expect that the occurrence of infringement claims is likely to grow as the market for fitness products and services grows and as we introduce new and updated products and offerings. Accordingly, our exposure to damages resulting from infringement claims could increase and this could further exhaust our financial and management resources. Any of the foregoing could prevent us from competing effectively and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Risks related to legal and governance matters We are subject to periodic claims and litigation that could result in unexpected expenses and could ultimately be resolved against us. From time to time, we are involved in litigation and other proceedings, including matters related to product liability claims, stockholder class action and derivative claims, commercial disputes and intellectual property, as well as trade, regulatory, employment, and other claims related to our business. Any of these proceedings could result in significant settlement amounts, damages, fines, or other penalties, divert financial and management resources, and result in significant legal fees. An unfavorable outcome of any particular proceeding could exceed the limits of our insurance policies or the carriers may decline to fund such final settlements and/or judgments and could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, any proceeding could negatively impact our reputation among our guests and our brand image. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of actions of activist stockholders or others. We may be subject to actions or proposals from stockholders or others that may not align with our business strategies or the interests of our other stockholders. Responding to such actions can be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our business 21 and operations, and divert the attention of our board of directors, management, and employees from the pursuit of our business strategies. Such activities could interfere with our ability to execute our strategic plan. Activist stockholders or others may create perceived uncertainties as to the future direction of our business or strategy which may be exploited by our competitors and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and potential guests, and may affect our relationships with current guests, vendors, investors, and other third parties. In addition, a proxy contest for the election of directors at our annual meeting would require us to incur significant legal fees and proxy solicitation expenses and require significant time and attention by management and our board of directors. The perceived uncertainties as to our future direction also could affect the market price and volatility of our securities. Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could delay and discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider to be favorable. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and applicable provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may make it more difficult or impossible for a third-party to acquire control of us or effect a change in our board of directors and management. These provisions include: • the classification of our board of directors into three classes, with one class elected each year; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; • the ability to remove a director only for cause and only with the vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our voting stock; • a special meeting of stockholders may only be called by our chairman or Chief Executive Officer, or upon a resolution adopted by an affirmative vote of a majority of the board of directors, and not by our stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and • our stockholders must comply with advance notice procedures in order to nominate candidates for election to our board of directors or to place stockholder proposals on the agenda for consideration at any meeting of our stockholders. In addition, we are governed by Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to some specified exceptions, prohibits "business combinations" between a Delaware corporation and an "interested stockholder," which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation's voting stock, for a three-year period following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Section 203 could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Components of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations include: • • • • • • • • • • • Our fiscal year ends on the Sunday closest to January 31 of the following year, typically resulting in a 52-week year, but occasionally giving rise to an additional week, resulting in a 53-week year. Fiscal 2023, 2022, and 2021 were each 52-week years. Fiscal 2024 will be a 53-week year. This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements based on current expectations that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions, such as our plans, objectives, expectations, and intentions included in the "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements." Our actual results and the timing of events may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those described in the "Item 1A. Risk Factors" section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We use comparable sales as a metric to evaluate the performance of our business. Refer to the Comparable Sales and Sales Per Square Foot section of this management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for further information. We provide constant dollar changes and adjusted financial results, which are non-GAAP financial measures, as supplemental information that enable evaluation of the underlying trend in our operating performance, and enable a comparison to our historical financial information. Refer to the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section of this management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for reconciliations between the adjusted non-GAAP financial measures and the most directly comparable measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. We disclose material non-public information through one or more of the following channels: our investor relations website (http://corporate.lululemon.com/investors), the social media channels identified on our investor relations website, press releases, SEC filings, public conference calls, and webcasts. Information contained on or accessible through our websites is not incorporated into, and does not form a part of, this Annual Report or any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. During the fourth quarter of 2023, we revised the financial information which is regularly reviewed and used by our CODM to evaluate performance and allocate resources. Historically, our segments were based on selling channel. As we have further executed on our omni-channel retail strategy, and with the continued expansion of our international operations, our resource allocation decisions have evolved to focus on regional markets. We organize our operations into four regional markets: Americas, China Mainland, APAC, and EMEA. We report three segments, Americas, China Mainland, and Rest of World, which is comprised of the APAC and EMEA regions on a combined basis. Our prior year segment results have been recast to reflect our new segment reporting structure. Overview In 2023, lululemon celebrated its 25th anniversary and delivered another strong year of financial results. We continued to execute against our Power of Three ×2 growth plan, growing net revenue 19% and diluted earnings per share 83%, or 27% on an adjusted basis, as our teams were able to successfully navigate an uncertain macroeconomic environment. Our growth continued across regions, merchandise categories, and channels. We delivered strong net revenue growth across our regions including 12% in the Americas, 67% in China Mainland, and 43% in Rest of World. Net revenue from our women's product range increased 17%, men's increased 15%, and net revenue from our other categories increased 36%. We 27 opened 56 net new company-operated stores, contributing to a 15% increase in square footage, while total company-operated store net revenue increased 21% and e-commerce net revenue increased 17%. We believe this broad-based growth was underpinned by our ability to bring new innovations into our product assortment, while also increasing our brand awareness and bringing new guests into our brand. Product Innovation By innovating through our Science of Feel approach, we continue to seek to solve the unmet needs of our guests. While continuing to see strength from our key collections including Align, Scuba, Define, and Softstreme for women and our ABC collection for men, we launched new innovations as well. For women, we launched Wundermost, our new bodywear collection, we expanded our dual gender golf and tennis assortments. On the men’s side, we launched Steady State and Soft Jersey, to expand our lounge offering, while also enhancing our Pace Breaker short. In accessories, we continued to see strength across our bag assortment, and in footwear we updated our Blissfeel and Chargefeel styles, and in early 2024, we launched our first footwear styles for men. We also announced a new textile-to-textile recycling partnership with the goal of enabling circularity in our supply chain by transforming apparel waste into high quality nylon and polyester. Brand Awareness We believe that increasing our brand awareness and introducing new guests to the lululemon brand remains one of our largest opportunities, both in the Americas and to an even greater degree in our international markets. In order to grow brand awareness we combine our community-based, grass roots model of guest engagement, with larger scale brand activations and global brand campaigns. With connection points across both our physical and digital channels, we aim to bring new guests into our brand, engage with them in ways that are more than just transactional and create deeper connections. In 2023, we executed several strategies designed to connect with guests, bring new guests into our brand, and grow awareness. Highlights include: hosting our Dupe Swap event in Los Angeles; testing our first men's focused TV campaign featuring our ABC pants; taking over the West Bund in Shanghai for one week to host wellness-centric events and experiences intended to bring awareness to World Mental Health Day; and continuing to grow our Essentials membership program. In addition, in September 2023 we announced our new partnership with Peloton. Peloton is now the exclusive provider of content for our lululemon Studio members, we have become their primary apparel provider. We plan to jointly engage our global communities through special programming, experiences, and events. Financial Highlights The summary below compares 2023 to 2022 and provides both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. The adjusted financial measures for 2023 exclude $72.1 million of post-tax asset impairment and other charges recognized in relation to lululemon Studio. The adjusted financial measures for 2022 exclude $442.7 million of post-tax goodwill impairment and other charges recognized in relation to lululemon Studio and the post-tax net gain on the sale of an administrative building of $8.5 million. • Net revenue increased 19% to $9.6 billion. On a constant dollar basis, net revenue increased 20%. • Comparable sales increased 13%, or 14% on a constant dollar basis. – Americas comparable sales increased 8%, or 9% on a constant dollar basis. – China Mainland comparable sales increased 39%, or 46% on a constant dollar basis. – Rest of World comparable sales increased 32%, or 33% on a constant dollar basis. • Gross profit increased 25% to $5.6 billion. Adjusted gross profit increased 24% to $5.6 billion. • Gross margin increased 290 basis points to 58.3%. Adjusted gross margin increased 240 basis points to 58.6%. • Income from operations increased 61% to $2.1 billion. Adjusted income from operations increased 25% to $2.2 billion. • Operating margin increased 580 basis points to 22.2% from 16.4% in 2022. Adjusted operating margin increased 110 basis points to 23.2% from 22.1% in 2022. 28 • Income tax expense increased 31% to $625.5 million. Our effective tax rate for 2023 was 28.8% compared to 35.9% for 2022. The adjusted effective tax rate was 28.7% and 28.1% for 2023 and 2022, respectively. • Diluted earnings per share were $12.20 for 2023 compared to $6.68 in 2022. Adjusted diluted earnings per share were $12.77 for 2023 compared to $10.07 in 2022. Market Conditions and Trends Macroeconomic conditions, supply chain disruption, and the COVID-19 pandemic have impacted our business and operating costs. Certain trends are expected to continue throughout 2024, with the impact varying by market. Macroeconomic Conditions Macroeconomic conditions, including foreign currency fluctuations, have impacted our financial results. Foreign currency fluctuations reduced the growth of our net revenue by $89.8 million when comparing 2023 to 2022, primarily due to the overall appreciation of the US dollar. We expect future exchange rate volatility to impact our results. We have also experienced increased wage rates which increased our employee costs when comparing 2023 to 2022. Consumer purchasing behaviors and their propensity to spend in our sector have been impacted by uncertain economic conditions including inflation, higher interest rates, and other factors. While we experienced traffic and net revenue growth in 2023 in all markets, over the course of 2023 we saw moderation in the year over year traffic and net revenue growth in the Americas. We continue to monitor macroeconomic conditions and the trends in consumer demand for our products. Supply Chain Disruption In 2021 and 2022 we experienced supply chain disruption, including delays in inbound delivery of our products as well as in manufacturing. This supply chain disruption caused us to use higher cost modes of transport, including increasing our use of air freight. We saw an improvement in the supply chain disruption during the second half of 2022 and during 2023, including reductions in freight costs and reductions in our levels of air freight usage. COVID-19 Pandemic Most of our retail locations were open throughout 2023, 2022, and 2021, with certain locations temporarily closed due to COVID-19 resurgences during the first quarter of 2022 and at various times in 2021. The effect of COVID-19, including store closures, impacted our revenue and operating margins in 2021 and the first quarter of 2022 in China Mainland. Results of Operations The following table summarizes key components of our results of operations for the periods indicated: 29 Comparison of 2023 to 2022 Net Revenue Net revenue increased $1.5 billion, or 19%, to $9.6 billion in 2023 from $8.1 billion in 2022. On a constant dollar basis, net revenue increased 20%. Comparable sales increased 13%, or 14% on a constant dollar basis. The increase in net revenue was primarily due to increased Americas net revenue. China Mainland and Rest of World net revenue also increased. Net revenue for 2023 and 2022 is summarized below, and reflects our updated segments, including comparatives. Americas. The increase in Americas net revenue was primarily due to an increase in comparable sales, which increased 8%, or 9% on a constant dollar basis. The increase in comparable sales was primarily a result of increased traffic, partially offset by a lower dollar value per transaction and a decrease in conversion rates. The increase in Americas net revenue was also driven by a $327.6 million increase in non-comparable sales, primarily from our company-operated stores that were opened or significantly expanded since 2022 as well as increased outlet, wholesale, and license and supply arrangement net revenue, partially offset by fewer temporary locations and lower lululemon Studio net revenue. China Mainland. The increase in China Mainland net revenue was primarily due to an increase in comparable sales, which increased 39%, or 46% on a constant dollar basis. The increase in comparable sales was primarily a result of increased traffic, partially offset by a decrease in conversion rates and a lower dollar value per transaction. The increase in China Mainland net revenue was also driven by a $180.6 million increase in non-comparable sales, primarily from our company-operated stores that were opened or significantly expanded since 2022 as well as increased net revenue from outlets. Rest of World. The increase in Rest of World net revenue was primarily due to an increase in comparable sales, which increased 32%, or 33% on a constant dollar basis. The increase in comparable sales was primarily a result of increased traffic, partially offset by a decrease in conversion rates. The increase in Rest of World net revenue was also driven by a $118.9 million increase in non-comparable sales, primarily from our company-operated stores that were opened or significantly expanded since 2022 as well as increased license and supply arrangements and outlets net revenue. Gross Profit During 2022, we decided to shift our lululemon Studio strategy to focus on providing digital app-based services. While we continued to sell at-home hardware in 2023, we reached the decision to cease selling the lululemon Studio Mirror during the third quarter of 2023. These strategy shifts resulted in the recognition of an inventory obsolescence provision of $62.9 million in 2022 and a further provision of $23.7 million in 2023. These provisions reduced gross margin by 80 basis points and 30 basis points in 2022 and 2023 respectively. Please refer to Note 8. Impairment of Goodwill and Other Assets, Restructuring Costs included in Item 8 of Part II of this report. 30 Gross margin increased 290 basis points, or excluding the impact of the lululemon Studio obsolescence provisions detailed above, increased 240 basis points. This 240 basis point net increase was primarily a result of: • a net increase in product margin of 290 basis points, primarily due to lower freight costs from rate reductions and reduced air freight, as well as lower duty costs, modestly offset by higher inventory provisions and shrink in the current year; • an unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates of 20 basis points; and • deleverage on occupancy costs of 20 basis points and an increase in costs related to our distribution centers as a percentage of net revenue of 10 basis points. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily due to: • an increase in head office costs of $327.7 million, comprised of: – an increase in employee costs of $108.8 million primarily due to increased salaries and wages expense as well as increased stock-based compensation and incentive compensation, primarily as a result of headcount growth and increased wage rates; – an increase in brand and community costs of $95.4 million primarily due to increased marketing expenses; – an increase in depreciation of $46.0 million; – an increase in other head office costs of $40.4 million, primarily due to increased professional fees; and – an increase in technology costs, including cloud computing amortization, of $37.1 million. • an increase in costs related to our operating channels of $319.1 million, comprised of: – an increase in employee costs of $145.1 million primarily due to increased salaries and wages expense, incentive compensation, and benefit costs for retail employees, primarily from the growth in our business and increased wage rates; – an increase in other operating costs of $67.7 million primarily due to increased depreciation costs, technology costs, and repairs and maintenance costs; – an increase in variable costs of $66.8 million primarily due to increased credit card fees, distribution costs, and packaging costs, primarily as a result of increased net revenue; and – an increase in brand and community costs of $39.5 million primarily due to increased digital marketing expenses. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was partially offset by a decrease in net foreign currency exchange and derivative revaluation losses of $7.0 million. 31 Impairment of Goodwill and Other Assets, Restructuring Costs During 2023, we recognized certain asset impairments and restructuring costs, and during 2022, we recognized impairment of goodwill and other assets, each in relation to lululemon Studio. Please refer to Note 8. Impairment of Goodwill and Other Assets, Restructuring Costs included in Item 8 of Part II of this report for further information. Amortization of Intangible Assets The amortization of intangible assets was primarily the result of the amortization of intangible assets recognized upon the acquisition of MIRROR, which we rebranded as lululemon Studio. Gain on Disposal of Assets During the second quarter of 2022, we completed the sale of an administrative office building, which resulted in a pre-tax gain of $10.2 million. Income from Operations On a segment basis, we determine income from operations without taking into account our general corporate expenses and certain other expenses. Segmented income from operations is summarized below. Our prior year segment results have been recast to reflect our new segment reporting structure. Americas. The increase in Americas income from operations was primarily the result of increased gross profit of $691.7 million, driven by increased net revenue and higher gross margin. The increase in gross margin was primarily due to higher product margin, partially offset by deleverage on distribution center costs. The increase in gross profit was partially offset by an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses, primarily due to higher employee costs, increased digital marketing expenses, increased credit card fees, packaging costs, and distribution costs driven by higher net revenue, and 32 increased depreciation, and technology costs. Income from operations as a percentage of Americas net revenue increased due to higher gross margin, partially offset by deleverage on selling, general and administrative expenses. China Mainland. The increase in China Mainland income from operations was primarily the result of increased gross profit of $228.1 million, driven by increased net revenue. Gross margin was consistent year over year, primarily due to leverage on occupancy and other costs, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates and lower product margin. The increase in gross profit was partially offset by an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses primarily due to higher employee costs, as well as increased digital marketing expenses, increased packaging costs, distribution costs, and credit card fees driven by higher net revenue, and increased technology costs. Income from operations as a percentage of China Mainland net revenue increased due to leverage on selling, general and administrative expenses. Rest of World. The increase in Rest of World income from operations was primarily the result of increased gross profit of $190.2 million, driven by increased net revenue and higher gross margin. The increase in gross margin was primarily due to higher product margin as well as leverage on occupancy and other costs, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates. The increase in gross profit was partially offset by an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses primarily due to higher employee costs, as well as increased digital marketing expenses, increased distribution costs, credit card fees, and packaging costs driven by higher net revenue, and increased technology costs. Income from operations as a percentage of Rest of World net revenue increased due to higher gross margin and leverage on selling, general and administrative expenses. General Corporate Expenses. The increase in general corporate expenses was primarily due to increased employee costs, as well as increased brand and community costs, depreciation, technology costs, professional fees, and product team costs. The increase in general corporate expenses was partially offset by a decrease in net foreign currency exchange and derivative losses of $7.0 million. Other Income (Expense), Net The increase in other income, net was primarily due to an increase in interest income as a result of higher cash balances and higher interest rates. Income Tax Expense The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due the income tax impact of certain non-deductible impairment and other charges recognized in 2022 and 2023 related to lululemon Studio, partially offset by a lower tax rate on the gain on the sale of an administrative building in 2022. These items increased the effective tax rate by 780 basis points and 10 basis points in 2022 and 2023, respectively. Excluding the income tax effects of the impairment and other charges recognized in 2022 and 2023 in relation to lululemon Studio, and excluding the tax effect of the gain on the sale of the administrative building in 2022, the adjusted effective tax rate increased to 28.7% in 2023 from 28.1% in 2022. The increase in the adjusted effective tax rate was primarily due to withholding taxes on unremitted earnings which are not considered to be permanently reinvested, partially offset by adjustments upon the filing of certain income tax returns, and a decrease in U.S. state taxes. Net Income 33 The increase in net income in 2023 was primarily due to an increase in gross profit of $1.1 billion, an increase in other income (expense), net of $38.9 million, and impairment and restructuring charges recognized in 2023 of $74.5 million compared to impairment charges of $407.9 million recognized in 2022, partially offset by an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses of $639.8 million, an increase in income tax expense of $147.8 million, and a gain on disposal of assets of $10.2 million in the prior year. Excluding certain inventory provisions, goodwill and other asset impairments, and restructuring costs recognized in relation to lululemon Studio in 2023 and 2022 and the gain on sale of an administrative building in 2022, and their tax effects, adjusted net income increased $333.4 million or 26%. Comparison of 2022 to 2021 Net Revenue Net revenue increased $1.9 billion, or 30%, to $8.1 billion in 2022 from $6.3 billion in 2021. On a constant dollar basis, net revenue increased 32%. Comparable sales increased 25%, or 28% on a constant dollar basis. The increase in net revenue was primarily due to increased Americas net revenue. China Mainland and Rest of World net revenue also increased. Net revenue for 2022 and 2021 is summarized below, and reflects our updated segments, including comparatives. Americas. The increase in Americas net revenue was primarily due to an increase in comparable sales, which increased 28%, or 29% on a constant dollar basis. The increase in comparable sales was primarily a result of increased traffic, partially offset by a decrease in conversion rates. Americas net revenue also increased due to a $296.9 million increase in non-comparable sales, primarily from our company-operated stores that were opened or significantly expanded since 2021 as well as increased outlet, wholesale, and re-commerce net revenue, partially offset by lower license and supply arrangement and lululemon Studio net revenue. China Mainland. The increase in China Mainland net revenue was primarily due to an increase in comparable sales, which increased 17%, or 23% on a constant dollar basis. The increase in comparable sales was primarily a result of increased traffic, partially offset by a decrease in conversion rates. The increase in China Mainland net revenue was also driven by a $77.5 million increase in non-comparable sales, primarily from our company-operated stores that were opened or significantly expanded since 2021. Rest of World. The increase in Rest of World net revenue was primarily due to a $151.5 million increase in non-comparable sales, primarily from our company-operated stores that were opened or significantly expanded since 2021 as well as increased license and supply arrangements, outlets, and wholesale net revenue. The increase in Rest of World net revenue was also driven by an increase in comparable sales, which increased 10%, or 19% on a constant dollar basis. The increase in comparable sales was primarily a result of increased traffic, partially offset by a decrease in conversion rates. Gross Profit 34 During 2022, we updated our lululemon Studio strategy to focus on digital app-based services, which meant we no longer expected to be able to sell all of the in-home hardware inventory above cost. We recognized a provision of $62.9 million against hardware inventory during 2022. This reduced 2022 gross margin by 80 basis points. Please refer to Note 8. Impairment of Goodwill and Other Assets, Restructuring Costs included in Item 8 of Part II of this report. The remaining 150 basis point decrease in gross margin was primarily the result of: • a decrease in product margin of 100 basis points primarily due to higher markdowns, sales mix, and increased damages and shrink, partially offset by lower air freight costs; • an increase in costs related to our product departments and distribution centers as a percentage of net revenue of 60 basis points; and • an unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates of 40 basis points. The decrease in gross margin was partially offset by leverage on occupancy and depreciation costs of 50 basis points, driven primarily by the increase in net revenue. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily due to: • an increase in head office costs of $283.7 million, comprised of: – an increase in costs of $142.2 million primarily due to increased depreciation of $43.5 million and increased technology costs, including cloud computing amortization, of $35.7 million, as well as increased brand and community costs and professional fees; and – an increase in employee costs of $141.5 million primarily due to an increase in salaries and wages expense of $76.5 million and incentive compensation of $34.8 million, as well as increased stock-based compensation expense and travel costs, primarily as a result of headcount growth and increased wage rates. • an increase in costs related to our operating channels of $249.5 million, comprised of: – an increase in variable costs of $127.6 million primarily due to an increase in distribution costs and credit card fees, primarily as a result of increased net revenue; – an increase in employee costs of $104.2 million primarily due to an increase in salaries and wages expense and incentive compensation in our company-operated store and e-commerce channels, primarily due to growth in our business and increased wage rates; – an increase in other costs of $15.3 million primarily due to an increase in repairs and maintenance costs, depreciation, and technology costs, partially offset by a decrease in professional fees; and – an increase in brand and community costs of $2.4 million primarily due to an increase in digital marketing expenses related to our e-commerce channel, partially offset by a decrease in marketing expenses related to lululemon Studio. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was partially offset by a decrease in net foreign exchange and derivative revaluation losses of $0.8 million. 35 Impairment of Goodwill and Other Assets, Restructuring Costs During 2022, we recognized an impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets in relation to our lululemon Studio business unit. Please refer to Note 8. Impairment of Goodwill and Other Assets, Restructuring Costs included in Item 8 of Part II of this report. Amortization of Intangible Assets The amortization of intangible assets was primarily the result of the amortization of intangible assets recognized upon the acquisition of MIRROR, which we rebranded as lululemon Studio. Acquisition-Related Expenses In connection with our acquisition of MIRROR, we recognized acquisition-related compensation expenses of $38.4 million and transaction and integration related costs of $3.0 million in 2021. There were no acquisition-related expenses in 2022. Please refer to Note 9. Acquisition-Related Expenses included in Item 8 of Part II of this report for further information. Gain on Disposal of Assets During the second quarter of 2022, we completed the sale of an administrative office building, which resulted in a pre-tax gain of $10.2 million. 36 Income from Operations On a segment basis, we determine income from operations without taking into account our general corporate expenses and certain other expenses. Segmented income from operations is summarized below. Our prior segment results have been recast to reflect our new segment reporting structure. Americas. The increase in Americas income from operations was primarily the result of increased gross profit of $855.2 million, driven by increased net revenue, partially offset by lower gross margin. The decrease in gross margin was primarily due to lower product margin, partially offset by leverage on occupancy and other costs. The increase in gross profit was partially offset by an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses, primarily due to higher employee costs, as well as increased distribution costs and credit card fees driven by higher net revenue, and increased technology costs. Income from operations as a percentage of Americas net revenue increased due to leverage on selling, general and administrative expenses. China Mainland. The increase in China Mainland income from operations was primarily the result of increased gross profit of $70.4 million, driven by increased net revenue, partially offset by lower gross margin. The decrease in gross margin was primarily due to unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates as well as deleverage on distribution center and other costs. The increase in gross profit was partially offset by an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses primarily due to higher employee costs, as well as increased digital marketing expenses, increased packaging and distribution costs driven by higher net revenue, and increased technology costs. Income from operations as a percentage of China Mainland net revenue decreased primarily due to lower gross margin. Rest of World. The increase in Rest of World income from operations was primarily the result of increased gross profit of $80.9 million, driven by increased net revenue, partially offset by lower gross margin. The decrease in gross margin was primarily due to unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates as well as lower product margin, partially offset by leverage on occupancy and other costs. The increase in gross profit was partially offset by an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses primarily due to higher employee costs, as well as increased distribution costs, credit card fees, and packaging costs driven by higher net revenue, and increased digital marketing expenses. Income from operations as a percentage of Rest of World net revenue increased due to leverage on selling, general and administrative expenses. General Corporate Expenses. The increase in general corporate expenses was primarily due to higher employee costs, as well as increased depreciation, brand and community costs, technology costs, professional fees, and product team costs. The increase in general corporate expenses was partially offset by a decrease in net foreign exchange and derivative losses of $0.8 million. 37 Other Income (Expense), Net The increase in other income, net was primarily due to an increase in interest income from higher interest rates, partially offset by an increase in other expenses. Income Tax Expense The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to certain non-deductible expenses related to the impairment of goodwill and other assets recognized in relation to our lululemon Studio business unit (formerly MIRROR) partially offset by the gain on sale of an administrative building in 2022 which increased the effective tax rate by 780 basis points. Certain non-deductible expenses related to the MIRROR acquisition increased the effective tax rate by 70 basis points in 2021. The increase in the effective tax rate was also due to the accrual of U.S. state tax and Canadian withholding taxes on unremitted earnings which are not considered to be permanently reinvested, adjustments upon filing of certain income tax returns, and a decrease in deductions for stock-based compensation, partially offset by a decrease in non-deductible expenses in international jurisdictions. Excluding the impairment of goodwill and other assets recognized in relation to our lululemon Studio business unit (formerly MIRROR) and the gain on sale of an administrative building in 2022, and the MIRROR acquisition-related expenses in 2021, and their tax effects, our adjusted effective tax rates were 28.1% and 26.2% for 2022 and 2021, respectively. Net Income The decrease in net income in 2022 was primarily due to an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses of $532.4 million, an impairment charge recognized in 2022 of $407.9 million, an increase in income tax expense of $119.2 million, partially offset by an increase in gross profit of $883.8 million, a decrease in acquisition-related expenses of $41.4 million, a gain on disposal of assets of $10.2 million, and an increase in other income (expense), net of $3.6 million. Excluding the impairment of goodwill and other assets recognized in relation to our lululemon Studio business unit (formerly MIRROR) and the gain on sale of an administrative building in 2022, and the MIRROR acquisition-related expenses in 2021, and their tax effects, adjusted net income increased $273.7 million or 27.0%. Comparable Sales and Sales Per Square Foot Comparable Sales We use comparable sales to evaluate the performance of our company-operated store and e-commerce businesses from an omni-channel perspective. It allows us to monitor the performance of our business without the impact of recently opened or expanded stores. We believe investors would similarly find these metrics useful in assessing the performance of our business. Comparable sales includes comparable company-operated store and all e-commerce net revenue. E-commerce net revenue includes our buy online pick-up in store, back-back room, and ship from store omni-channel retailing capabilities in addition to our websites, other region-specific websites, digital marketplaces, and mobile apps. Comparable company-operated stores have been open, or open after being significantly expanded, for at least 12 full fiscal months. Net revenue from a company-operated store is included in comparable sales beginning with the first fiscal month for which the store has a full fiscal month of sales in the prior year. Comparable sales excludes sales from new stores that have not been open for at least 12 full fiscal months, from stores which have not been in their significantly expanded space for at least 12 full fiscal months, from stores which have been temporarily relocated for renovations or temporarily closed, and sales from company- 38 operated stores that have closed. Comparable sales also excludes sales from our selling channels other than company-operated stores and e-commerce. The comparable sales measures we report may not be equivalent to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. In fiscal years with 53 weeks, the 53rd week of net revenue is excluded from the calculation of comparable sales. In the year following a 53-week year, the prior year period is shifted by one week to compare similar calendar weeks. Non-comparable sales includes all net revenue other than comparable sales. Sales Per Square Foot We use sales per square foot to assess the performance of our company-operated stores relative to their square footage. We believe that sales per square foot is useful in evaluating the performance of our company-operated stores. Sales per square foot is calculated using total net revenue from all company-operated stores divided by the average ending square footage of the stores for each period during the year. In fiscal years with 53 weeks, the 53rd week of net revenue is excluded from the calculation of sales per square foot. The square footage of our company-operated stores includes all retail related space, including selling space as well as storage and back-office areas. The sales per square foot metric we report may not be equivalent to similarly titled metrics reported by other companies. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Constant dollar changes and adjusted financial results are non-GAAP financial measures. A constant dollar basis assumes the average foreign currency exchange rates for the period remained constant with the average foreign currency exchange rates for the same period of the prior year. We provide constant dollar changes in our results to help investors understand the underlying growth rate of net revenue excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Adjusted gross profit, gross margin, income from operations, operating margin, income tax expense, effective tax rates, net income, and diluted earnings per share exclude certain inventory provisions, goodwill and other asset impairments, and restructuring costs recognized in relation to lululemon Studio, the gain on disposal of assets for the sale of an administrative office building, the MIRROR acquisition-related expenses, and the related income tax effects of these items. We believe these adjusted financial measures are useful to investors as they provide supplemental information that enable evaluation of the underlying trend in our operating performance, and enable a comparison to our historical financial information. Further, due to the finite and discrete nature of these items, we do not consider them to be normal operating expenses that are necessary to run our business, or impairments or disposal gains that are expected to arise in the normal course of our operations. Management uses these adjusted financial measures and constant currency metrics internally when reviewing and assessing financial performance. The presentation of this financial information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or with greater prominence to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures follows, which includes more detail on the GAAP financial measure that is most directly comparable to each non-GAAP financial measure, and the related reconciliations between these financial measures. Our non-GAAP financial measures may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be directly comparable to, similarly titled measures reported by other companies. 39 Constant Dollar Changes The below changes in net revenue and comparable sales show the change compared to the corresponding period in the prior year. __________ (1) Comparable sales includes comparable company-operated store and e-commerce net revenue. Adjusted Financial Measures The following tables reconcile the most directly comparable measures calculated in accordance with GAAP with the adjusted financial measures. The 2023 and 2022 adjustments relate to certain inventory provisions, goodwill and other asset impairments, and restructuring costs recognized in relation to lululemon Studio, and their related tax effects. The 2022 adjustments also relate to the gain on sale of an administrative office building, and their related tax effects. The 2021 adjustments relate to MIRROR acquisition-related expenses, and their related tax effects. Please refer to Note 5. Property and Equipment, Note 8. Impairment of Goodwill and Other Assets, Restructuring Costs, and Note 9. Acquisition-Related Expenses included in Item 8 of Part II of this report for further information on the nature of these amounts. 40 Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary sources of liquidity are our current balances of cash and cash equivalents, cash flows from operations, and capacity under our committed revolving credit facility, including to fund short-term working capital requirements. Our primary cash needs are capital expenditures for opening new stores and remodeling or relocating existing stores, investing in our distribution centers, investing in technology and making system enhancements, funding working capital requirements, and making other strategic capital investments. We may also use cash to repurchase shares of our common stock. Cash and cash equivalents in excess of our needs are held in interest bearing accounts with financial institutions, as well as in money market funds and term deposits. The following table summarizes our net cash flows provided by and used in operating, investing, and financing activities for the periods indicated: 41 Operating Activities The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily as a result of: • an increase in cash flows from changes in operating assets and liabilities of $859.1 million, primarily driven by changes in inventories, accounts payable, and prepaid expenses and other current assets, partially offset by changes in income taxes and accrued liabilities; and • increased net income of $695.4 million. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was partially offset by changes in adjusting items of $224.8 million, primarily driven by goodwill and other asset impairments and restructuring costs recognized in relation to lululemon Studio, as well as increased depreciation and higher cash inflows related to derivatives. Investing Activities The increase in cash used in investing activities was primarily due to the settlement of net investment hedges and increased capital expenditures. The increase in capital expenditures was primarily due to investment in our distribution centers as well as other technology infrastructure and system initiatives, partially offset by a decrease in company-operated store and corporate capital expenditures. Financing Activities The increase in cash used in financing activities was primarily the result of an increase in our stock repurchases. During 2023, 1.5 million shares were repurchased at a total cost including commissions and excise taxes of $558.7 million. During 2022, 1.4 million shares were repurchased at a total cost including commissions and excise taxes of $444.0 million. The common stock was repurchased in the open market at prevailing market prices, including under plans complying with the provisions of Rule 10b5-1 and Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, with the timing and actual number of shares repurchased depending upon market conditions, eligibility to trade, and other factors. Liquidity Outlook We believe our cash and cash equivalent balances, cash generated from operations, and borrowings available to us under our committed revolving credit facility will be adequate to meet our liquidity needs and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our cash from operations may be negatively impacted by a decrease in demand for our products as well as the other factors described in "Item 1A. Risk Factors". In addition, we may make discretionary capital improvements with respect to our stores, distribution facilities, headquarters, or systems, or we may repurchase shares under an approved stock repurchase program, which we would expect to fund through the use of cash, issuance of debt or equity securities or other external financing sources to the extent we were unable to fund such expenditures out of our cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operations. The following table includes certain measures of our liquidity: __________ (1) Working capital is calculated as current assets of $4.1 billion less current liabilities of $1.6 billion. Capital expenditures are expected to range between $690.0 million and $710.0 million in 2024. Our current commitments with respect to inventory purchases are included within our purchase obligations outlined below. The timing and cost of our inventory purchases will vary depending on a variety of factors such as revenue growth, assortment and purchasing decisions, product costs including freight and duty, and the availability of production capacity and speed. Our inventory balance as of January 28, 2024 was $1.3 billion, a decrease of 9% from January 29, 2023. We expect our inventories to decrease during the first half of 2024 compared to the first half of 2023, and then increase in the second half of 2024 compared to the second half of 2023. 42 Our existing Americas credit facility provides for $400.0 million in commitments under an unsecured five-year revolving credit facility. The credit facility has a maturity date of December 14, 2026, subject to extension under certain circumstances. As of January 28, 2024, aside from letters of credit of $6.3 million, we had no other borrowings outstanding under this credit facility. Further information regarding our credit facilities and associated covenants is outlined in Note 12. Revolving Credit Facilities included in Item 8 of Part II of this report. Contractual Obligations and Commitments Leases. We lease certain store and other retail locations, distribution centers, offices, and equipment under non-cancellable operating leases. Our leases generally have initial terms of between two and 15 years, and generally can be extended in increments between two and five years, if at all. The following table details our future minimum lease payments. Minimum lease commitments exclude variable lease expenses including contingent rent payments, common area maintenance, property taxes, and landlord's insurance. Purchase obligations. The amounts listed for purchase obligations in the table below represent agreements (including open purchase orders) to purchase products and for other expenditures in the ordinary course of business that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms. In some cases, values are subject to change, such as for product purchases throughout the production process. The reported amounts exclude liabilities included in our consolidated balance sheets as of January 28, 2024. One-time transition tax payable . The U.S. tax reforms enacted in December 2017 imposed a mandatory transition tax on accumulated foreign subsidiary earnings which have not previously been subject to U.S. income tax. The one-time transition tax is payable over eight years beginning in fiscal 2018. The one-time transition tax payable is net of foreign tax credits, and the table below outlines the expected payments due by fiscal year. The following table summarizes our contractual arrangements due by fiscal year as of January 28, 2024, and the timing and effect that such commitments are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods: As of January 28, 2024, our operating lease commitments for distribution center operating leases which have been committed to, but not yet commenced, was $299.6 million, which is not reflected in the table above. We enter into standby letters of credit to secure certain of our obligations, including leases, taxes, and duties. As of January 28, 2024, letters of credit and letters of guarantee totaling $10.2 million had been issued, including $6.3 million under our committed revolving credit facility. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions. Predicting future events is inherently an imprecise activity and, as such, requires the use of significant judgment. Actual results may vary from our estimates in amounts that may be material to the financial statements. An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely to occur periodically, could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. Our critical accounting policies, estimates, and judgements are as follows, and see Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies included in Item 8 of Part II for additional information: Inventory provision Inventory is valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. We periodically review our inventories and make a provision for obsolescence and goods that have quality issues or that are damaged. We record a provision at an amount that is equal to the difference between the inventory cost and its net realizable value. As of January 28, 2024 the net carrying value of our inventories was $1.3 billion, which included provisions for obsolete and damaged inventory of $139.7 million. The 43 provision is determined based upon assumptions about product quality, damages, future demand, selling prices, and market conditions, and includes a provision of $63.0 million against lululemon Studio Mirror inventory. Deferred taxes on undistributed net investment of foreign subsidiaries. We have not recognized U.S. state income taxes and foreign withholding taxes on the net investment in our subsidiaries which we have determined to be indefinitely reinvested. This determination is based on the cash flow projections and operational and fiscal objectives of each of our foreign subsidiaries. Such estimates are inherently imprecise since many assumptions utilized in the projections are subject to revision in the future. For the portion of our net investment in our Canadian subsidiaries that is not indefinitely reinvested, we have recorded a deferred tax liability for the taxes which would be due upon repatriation. For distributions made by our Canadian subsidiaries, the amount of tax payable is partially dependent on how the repatriation transactions are made. The deferred tax liability has been recorded on the basis that we would choose to make the repatriation transactions in the most tax efficient manner. Specifically, to the extent that the Canadian subsidiaries have sufficient paid-up-capital, any such distributions would be made as a return of capital, rather than as a dividend, and therefore would not be subject to Canadian withholding tax. As of January 28, 2024, the net investment in our Canadian subsidiaries was $2.5 billion, of which $1.6 billion was determined to be indefinitely reinvested. The paid-up-capital balance of the Canadian subsidiaries was approximately $140.0 million. We have recognized a deferred tax liability of $41.2 million as of January 28, 2024 which represents the Canadian withholding taxes payable on the portion of our Canadian earnings that are not indefinitely reinvested and cannot be repatriated as a return of capital, and U.S. state income taxes payable upon repatriation of the amounts which are not indefinitely reinvested. In future periods, if the net investment in our Canadian subsidiaries continues to grow, whether due to the accumulation of profits by these subsidiaries or due to a change in the amount that is indefinitely reinvested, we will record additional deferred tax liabilities, including both Canadian withholding taxes for the amount in excess of the paid-up capital balance and U.S. state income taxes. Contingencies We are involved in legal proceedings regarding contractual and employment relationships and a variety of other matters. We record contingent liabilities when a loss is assessed to be probable and its amount is reasonably estimable. If it is reasonably possible that a material loss could occur through ongoing litigation, we provide disclosure in the footnotes to our financial statements. Assessing probability of loss and estimating the amount of probable losses requires analysis of multiple factors, including in some cases judgments about the potential actions of third-party claimants and courts. Should we experience adverse court judgments or should negotiated outcomes differ to our expectations with respect to such ongoing litigation it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.