********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The Company’s operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those described below. Other risks are described in “Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto. The Company's business could also be affected by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. If any of these risks actually occur, it could materially harm the Company's business, financial condition, or results of operations, or impair the Company's ability to implement its strategic plans. In that case, the market price of the Company's common stock could decline. The following risk factors are summarized as financial; operational; information technology; and legal, regulatory, compliance, and reputational. Financial Risks • The airline industry is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions, and continued or future unfavorable economic conditions could negatively affect the Company’s results of operations and require the Company to adjust its business strategies. • The Company's business can be significantly impacted by the availability of jet fuel and high and/or volatile fuel prices, and the Company's operations are subject to disruption in the event of any delayed supply of fuel; therefore, the Company's strategic plans and future profitability are likely to be impacted by the Company's ability to effectively address fuel price increases and fuel price volatility and availability. • The Company's low-cost structure has historically been one of its primary competitive advantages, and many factors have affected and could continue to affect the Company's ability to control its costs. • The Company's results of operations could be adversely impacted if it is unable to effectively execute its strategic plans. • The airline industry is intensely competitive. Operational Risks • The Company is currently dependent on Boeing as the sole manufacturer of the Company's aircraft. If the MAX aircraft were to become unavailable for the Company's operations, or if the Company were to 30 experience prolonged delivery delays of MAX aircraft, the Company's business plans, strategies, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. • The Company's business is labor intensive, with most Employees represented by labor unions; therefore, the Company could be materially adversely affected in the event of conflict with its Employees or its Employees' representatives or if the Company were unable to employ and retain sufficient numbers of qualified Employees to maintain its operations. • The Company is currently dependent on a single engine supplier, as well as single suppliers of certain other aircraft parts and equipment; therefore, the Company could be materially adversely affected (i) if it were unable to obtain timely or sufficient delivery of aircraft parts or equipment from Boeing or other suppliers or adequate maintenance or other support from any of these suppliers at commercially reasonable terms, (ii) if Boeing or other suppliers were unable to achieve and/or maintain required regulatory certifications or approvals of their parts or equipment, or (iii) in the event of a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with the Company's aircraft parts or equipment. • The airline industry has faced on-going security concerns and related cost burdens; further threatened or actual terrorist attacks, war, or other hostilities, even if not made directly on the airline industry, could significantly harm the airline industry and the Company's operations. • Interruptions or disruptions in service at one of the Company’s core stations have had, and could in the future have, a material adverse impact on its operations. • The Company’s operations have been, and in the future may again be, materially and adversely disrupted by extreme weather events. An inability to quickly and effectively restore operations following adverse weather, a localized disaster, or disturbance in a key geography has adversely and materially impacted, and in the future could again adversely and materially impact, the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. • The airline industry is made up of inherently complex systems and is affected by many conditions that are beyond its control, which can impact the Company's business strategies and results of operations. Information Technology Risks • The Company is increasingly dependent on technology to operate its business and continues to implement substantial changes to its information systems; any failure, disruption, breach, or delay in implementation of necessary changes to the Company's information systems could materially adversely affect its operations. • Developing and expanding data security and privacy requirements could increase the Company's operating costs, and any failure of the Company to maintain the security of certain Customer, Employee, and business-related information could result in disruption to operations and damage to the Company's reputation and could be costly to remediate. Legal, Regulatory, Compliance, and Reputational Risks • The Company is subject to extensive FAA regulation that may disrupt or necessitate modifications to the Company’s operations, business plans, and strategies. • Airport capacity constraints and air traffic control inefficiencies have limited and could continue to limit the Company's growth; changes in or additional governmental regulation could increase the Company's operating costs or otherwise limit the Company's ability to conduct business. • The Company is subject to various environmental requirements and risks, including increased regulation, changing consumer preferences, physical, environmental, and climate risks, and risks associated with climate change; the cost of compliance with more stringent environmental regulations, failure to comply with environmental regulations, or failure to otherwise manage the risks of climate change effectively could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. • The Company is subject to risks related to its sustainability goals and disclosures, which may affect stakeholder sentiment and the Company’s reputation and brand. • The Company's future results will suffer if it is unable to effectively manage its international operations and/or Extended Operations. • The Company is currently subject to regulatory actions and pending litigation, and if judgment, penalties, or fines were to be rendered against the Company, such judgment, penalties, or fines could adversely affect the Company's operating results. 31 • Conflicting federal, state, and local laws and regulations may impose additional requirements and restrictions on the Company’s operations, which could increase the Company’s operating costs, result in service disruptions, and increase litigation risk. • The Company’s reputation and brand could be harmed if it were to experience significant negative publicity through social media or otherwise, including with respect to the Company's voluntary ESG-related goals and disclosures. • The Company’s Bylaws designate specific courts as the exclusive forum for certain legal actions between the Company and its Shareholders, which could increase costs to bring a claim, discourage claims, or limit the ability of the Company’s Shareholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum viewed by the Shareholders as more favorable for disputes with the Company or the Company’s directors, officers, or other Employees. Financial Risks The airline industry is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions; in the event of continued or future unfavorable economic conditions or economic uncertainty, the Company's results of operations could be further negatively affected, which could require the Company to further adjust its business strategies. The airline industry, which is subject to relatively high fixed costs and highly variable and unpredictable demand, is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions, including changes in consumer discretionary spending as a result of inflation, rising interest rates, or other factors. Historically, unfavorable U.S. economic conditions have driven changes in travel patterns and have resulted in reduced spending for both leisure and business travel. For some consumers, leisure travel is a discretionary expense, and short-haul travelers, in particular, have the option to replace air travel with surface travel. As has become particularly evident as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, businesses and other travelers are able to forego air travel by using other communications such as videoconferencing, business communication platforms, and the Internet. Further, some businesses have continued to allow their employees to work remotely following the pandemic and/or have restricted non-essential travel for their employees, which has kept demand for business air travel below pre-pandemic levels. In addition, to the extent business travel recovers to pre-pandemic levels, businesses may require the purchase of less expensive tickets to reduce costs. This, in turn, can result in a decrease in average revenue per seat. During unfavorable economic conditions, low fares are often used to stimulate traffic. However, offering low fares typically hampers the ability of airlines to counteract any increases in fuel, labor, and other costs. Consumer behavior related to traveling may be negatively impacted by adverse changes in the perceived or actual economic climate, including declines in income levels or disposable income, and/or loss of wealth resulting from the impact of economic conditions. Any continuing or future U.S. or global economic uncertainty could further negatively affect the Company's results of operations and could cause the Company to further adjust its business strategies. Additionally, because a significant portion of expenses to operate a flight do not vary significantly with the number of passengers carried, a relatively small change in the number of passengers can have a disproportionate effect on an airline’s operating and financial results. Therefore, any general reduction in airline passenger traffic could adversely affect the Company's results of operations. The Company's business can be significantly impacted by the availability of jet fuel and high and/or volatile fuel prices, and the Company's operations are subject to disruption in the event of any delayed supply of fuel; therefore, the Company's strategic plans and future profitability are likely to be impacted by the Company's ability to effectively address fuel price increases and fuel price volatility and availability. Airlines are inherently dependent upon energy to operate, and jet fuel and oil represented approximately 24.0 percent of the Company's operating expenses for 2023. As discussed under "Business - Cost Structure," although market jet fuel prices remained volatile throughout the year, Fuel and oil expense for 2023 remained high, primarily due to higher capacity in response to consumer demand. Even a small change in market fuel prices can significantly affect profitability. Furthermore, the cost of fuel can be extremely volatile and unpredictable and subject to many external factors that are beyond the Company's control. For example, fuel prices can be impacted by political, 32 environmental (including those related to climate change), and economic factors, such as (i) dependency on foreign imports of crude oil and the potential for hostilities or other conflicts in oil producing areas; (ii) limitations and/or disruptions in domestic refining or pipeline operations or capacity due to weather, natural disasters, or other factors; (iii) worldwide demand for fuel, particularly in developing countries, which can result in inflated energy prices; (iv) changes in U.S. governmental policies on fuel production, transportation, taxes, and marketing; and (v) changes in currency exchange rates. In addition, the occurrence of extreme weather events (regardless of cause), such as flooding, acute or prolonged winter storms, tropical storms, and hurricanes, can also disrupt the jet fuel supply chain and affect fuel prices. The Company's ability to mitigate the impact of fuel price increases could also be limited by factors such as its historical low-fare reputation, the portion of its Customer base that purchases travel for leisure purposes, the competitive nature of the airline industry generally, and the risk that higher fares will drive a decrease in demand. The Company attempts to manage its risk associated with volatile jet fuel prices by utilizing over-the-counter fuel derivative instruments to hedge a portion of its future jet fuel purchases. However, energy prices can fluctuate significantly in a relatively short amount of time. Because the Company uses a variety of different derivative instruments at different price points, the Company is subject to the risk that the fuel derivatives it uses will not provide adequate protection against significant increases in fuel prices. In some cases, these derivative instruments could result in hedging losses, which could result in the Company effectively paying higher than market prices for fuel, thus creating additional volatility in the Company's earnings. In addition, the Company is subject to the risk that its fuel derivatives will no longer qualify for hedge accounting under applicable accounting standards, or that the derivative instruments utilized will not effectively offset changes in the price of the jet fuel consumed, which can create additional earnings volatility. Adjustments in the Company's overall fuel hedging strategy, as well as the ability of the commodities used in fuel hedging to qualify for special hedge accounting, could continue to affect the Company's results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to cost-effectively hedge against increases in fuel prices. The Company's fuel hedging arrangements and the various potential impacts of hedge accounting on the Company's financial position, cash flows, and results of operations are discussed in more detail under "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk," and in Note 1 and Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company is also reliant upon the readily available supply and timely delivery of jet fuel to the airports that it serves. A disruption in that supply could present significant challenges to the Company's operations and could ultimately cause the cancellation of flights and/or hinder the Company’s ability to provide service to a particular airport. The airline industry could face potential fuel shortages in 2024 due to pipeline capacity constraints, resulting from the shifting of jet fuel allocations during the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as a national shortage of interstate trucking capacity. The Company is working with aviation industry stakeholders to address these issues. However, unless there is additional jet fuel distribution capacity, whether by pipeline and/or by truck, there could be temporary disruptions (e.g., flight cancellations or passenger caps) at one or more of the Company’s airports in 2024, especially during peak travel periods. For additional discussion of the availability of jet fuel and SAF, please see “The Company is subject to risks related to its voluntary sustainability goals and disclosures, which may affect stakeholder sentiment and the Company’s reputation and brand.” The Company's low-cost structure has historically been one of its primary competitive advantages, and many factors have affected and could continue to affect the Company's ability to control its costs. The Company's low-cost structure has been one of its primary competitive advantages, as it has generally enabled the Company to offer low fares, drive traffic volume, grow market share, and protect profits. As discussed below under "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," the Company experienced significant inflationary cost pressure in 2023, particularly with respect to Salaries, wages, and benefits expense. 33 The Company's low-cost structure can also be negatively impacted by costs over which the Company has limited control. These include costs such as fuel, labor, airport, and regulatory compliance costs. Jet fuel and oil constituted approximately 24 percent of the Company's operating expenses during 2023, and the Company's ability to control the cost of fuel is subject to the external factors discussed in “The Company's business can be significantly impacted by the availability of jet fuel and high and/or volatile fuel prices, and the Company's operations are subject to disruption in the event of any delayed supply of fuel; therefore, the Company's strategic plans and future profitability are likely to be impacted by the Company's ability to effectively address fuel price increases and fuel price volatility and availability.” Salaries, wages, and benefits constituted approximately 43 percent of the Company's operating expenses during 2023. The Company's ability to control labor costs is limited by the terms of its collective-bargaining agreements. This limited control has negatively impacted the Company's low-cost structure and position. As discussed further under "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," the Company's unionized workforce makes up approximately 83 percent of its Employees and many have had pay scale increases as a result of contractual rate increases, which has put pressure on the Company's labor costs. Additionally, as indicated under "Business - Employees," a significant number of Southwest's unionized Employees, including its Flight Attendants; Ramp, Operations, Provisioning, and Freight Agents; and Flight Simulator Technicians are in unions currently in negotiations for labor agreements, which could result in additional pressure on the Company's low-cost structure. Further, in response to staffing challenges, the Company has increased the minimum pay for certain of its workforce and provided incentive pay in certain instances. As discussed under "Business - Regulation," the airline industry is heavily regulated, and the Company's regulatory compliance costs are subject to potentially significant increases from time to time based on actions by regulatory agencies that are out of the Company's control. Additionally, because of airport infrastructure updates and other factors, the Company has experienced increased space rental rates at various airports in its network. Further, the Company cannot control decisions by other airlines to reduce their capacity. When this occurs, as it has at times during recent years, certain fixed airport costs are allocated among a fewer number of total flights, which can result in increased landing fees and other costs for the Company. The Company is reliant upon third-party vendors and service providers, and the Company's low-cost advantage is dependent in part on its ability to obtain and maintain commercially reasonable terms with those parties. Disruptions to capital markets, shortages of skilled personnel, supply chain disruptions, increased regulation, geopolitical developments, and/or adverse economic conditions could subject certain of the Company's third-party vendors and service providers to significant financial pressures, which could lead to delays and other performance issues, ceased operations, or even bankruptcies among these third-party vendors and service providers. If a third-party vendor or service provider is unable to fulfill its commitments to the Company, the Company may be unable to replace that third-party vendor or service provider in a short period of time, or at competitive terms, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. As discussed under "Business - Insurance," the Company carries insurance of types customary in the airline industry. Although the Company has been able to purchase aviation, property, liability, pollution, cybersecurity, and D&O/fiduciary insurance via the commercial insurance marketplace, costs have generally increased, and it is more difficult and, in some cases not possible, to obtain insurance for certain activities and weather-related events. For instance, the cost of insurance premiums related to hail and wind damage has increased for certain facilities, and certain flood insurance is no longer available. Available commercial insurance could be more expensive in the future and/or have material differences in coverage than insurance that has historically been provided and may not be adequate to protect against the Company's risk of loss from future events, including acts of terrorism and severe weather events. With respect to any insurance claims, policy coverages and claims are subject to acceptance by the many insurers involved and may require arbitration, mediation, and/or litigation to effectively settle the claims over prolonged periods of time. In addition, an aircraft accident or other incident involving Southwest could result in costs in excess of its related insurance coverage, which costs could be substantial. Any aircraft accident or other incident involving Southwest, even if fully insured, could also have a material adverse effect on the public's perception of the Company, which could harm its reputation and business. 34 The Company participates in fuel consortium arrangements and fuel committees at certain airports. Fuel consortiums and fuel committees have, directly or indirectly, incurred debt obligations for improvements and capital projects for fuel facilities. While each participating airline in a consortium is generally allocated a share of the consortium’s costs based on usage, the inability of other participating airlines to satisfy their obligations with respect to fuel consortiums and fuel committees could adversely impact the Company’s financial results. The Company's low-cost position has also been challenged by the growth of "Ultra-Low Cost Carriers" ("ULCCs"), which in some cases have surpassed the Company's cost advantage with larger aircraft, increased seat density, and lower wages. ULCCs have further introduced "unbundled" service offerings, which appeal to price-sensitive travelers through promotion to consumers of an extremely low relative base fare for a seat, while separately charging for related services and products. In response, most major U.S. airlines now offer expanded cabin segmentation fare products, such as "basic economy" and "premium economy" products. A basic economy product provides for a lower base fare to compete with a ULCC base fare, but may include significant additional restrictions on amenities such as seat assignments (including restrictions on group and family seating), order of boarding, checked baggage and use of overhead bin space, flight changes and refunds, and eligibility for upgrades. A "premium economy" fare targets consumers willing to pay a premium for certain amenities that were previously included in the carriers' base fare (e.g., more favorable seating locations in the main cabin). In response to competitive ULCC pricing, some carriers removed fare floors for certain routes, leading to a lower fare offering across the industry. The Company's results of operations could be adversely impacted if it is unable to effectively execute its strategic plans. The Company is reliant on the success of its revenue strategies and other strategic plans and initiatives to grow and to help offset increasing costs. The execution of the Company's strategic plans was significantly negatively affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Nevertheless, the Company has taken actions to add staffing and increase the starting wage rate for certain workgroups, manage its fleet and fleet order book, and better optimize its network in an effort to position itself to opportunistically recover and grow. The timely and effective execution of the Company's strategies is dependent upon, among other factors, (i) the Company's ability to balance its network schedule and capacity with the availability and location of its crew resources; (ii) the Company's ability to effectively balance its investment of incremental operating expenses and capital expenditures related to its strategies against the need to effectively control costs; (iii) the Company's ability to timely and effectively implement, transition, and maintain related information technology systems and infrastructure; (iv) as discussed below, the Company’s ability to maintain satisfactory relations with its Employees or its Employees’ representatives; and (v) the Company's dependence on third parties with respect to the execution of its strategic plans . The airline industry is intensely competitive. As discussed in more detail under "Business - Competition," the airline industry is intensely competitive. The Company's primary competitors include other major domestic airlines, as well as regional and new entrant airlines, surface transportation, and alternatives to transportation such as videoconferencing, business communication platforms, and the Internet. The Company's revenues are sensitive to the actions of other carriers with respect to pricing, routes, loyalty programs, scheduling, capacity, customer service, operational reliability, comfort and amenities, product offerings, cost structure, aircraft fleet, strategic alliances, and code-sharing and similar activities. Operational Risks The Company is currently dependent on Boeing as the sole manufacturer of the Company's aircraft. If the MAX aircraft were to become unavailable for the Company's operations, or if the Company were to experience prolonged delivery delays of MAX aircraft, the Company's business plans, strategies, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 35 The Boeing MAX aircraft are crucial to the Company’s ability to operate and grow its business and fleet modernization initiatives. The Company operates the -8 out of the MAX family of aircraft and is awaiting delivery of the -7 out of the MAX family of aircraft. Deliveries of MAX aircraft from Boeing to the Company are subject to Boeing's production schedules and volumes. Boeing has in the past, and may continue to, experience delays in fulfilling its commitments with regards to delivery of the -8 to the Company as a result of supply chain constraints. In January 2024, the FAA announced that it had informed Boeing that the FAA would not (i) agree to any request from Boeing for an expansion in production or (ii) approve additional production lines for the MAX aircraft until the FAA is satisfied that any applicable Boeing quality control issues are resolved. Further, the Company's contractual delivery schedule for the -7 is dependent on the FAA issuing required certifications and approvals to Boeing and the Company. In January 2024, Boeing announced plans to withdraw an exemption request with the FAA and incorporate an engineering solution as part of the -7 certification process. The FAA will ultimately determine the timing of the -7 certification and entry into service, and the Company therefore offers no assurances that current estimations and timelines are correct. Boeing no longer manufactures versions of the 737 other than the MAX family of aircraft. If the MAX aircraft were to become unavailable for the Company’s flight operations, the Company's operations would be materially adversely affected. Further, if the -7 certification is not completed in a timely manner, the Company’s growth and network plans could be restricted unless and until it could procure and operate other types of aircraft from Boeing or another manufacturer, seller, or lessor. If the Company’s operations or growth were to be dependent upon the introduction of a new aircraft make and model to the Company’s fleet, the Company would need to, among other things, (i) develop and implement new maintenance, operating, and training programs; (ii) secure extensive regulatory approvals; and (iii) implement new technologies. The requirements associated with operating a new aircraft make and model could take an extended period of time to fulfill and would likely impose substantial costs on the Company. A shift away from a single fleet type could also add complexity to the Company’s operations, present operational and compliance risks, and materially increase the Company's costs. Any of these events would have a material, adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results, and financial condition. The Company could also be materially adversely affected if the pricing or operational attributes of its aircraft were to become less competitive. The Company's business is labor intensive, with most Employees represented by labor unions; therefore, the Company could be materially adversely affected in the event of conflict with its Employees or its Employees' representatives. The airline business is labor intensive, and for the year ended December 31, 2023, Salaries, wages, and benefits expense represented approximately 43 percent of the Company's operating expenses. As of December 31, 2023, approximately 83 percent of the Company's Employees were represented for collective bargaining purposes by labor unions, making the Company particularly exposed in the event of labor-related job actions. Employment-related matters (some of which relate to negotiated items) that have impacted the Company's results of operations include hiring/retention rates, attendance, pay rates, outsourcing, work rules, health care costs, and retirement benefits. Additionally, three of the Company’s twelve unionized Employee groups are in unions currently in negotiations for labor agreements, which could result in additional pressure on the Company's low-cost structure. The Company’s results could be materially adversely affected in the event of conflicts with its Employees or its Employees’ representatives. The Company’s business is labor intensive; therefore, the Company has been, and could in the future be, adversely affected if it were unable to employ and retain sufficient numbers of qualified Employees to maintain its operations. The Company’s success depends on its ability to attract and retain skilled personnel. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has heightened the Company’s exposure to its labor risks. In connection with the drastic reduction in travel demand due to the pandemic, in 2020 the Company offered voluntary separation and extended time-off programs to Employees. This negatively impacted the Company's ability to staff appropriately when demand for leisure travel returned. At the same time, competition for skilled personnel became fierce, which led to operational challenges in the first half of 2022. In addition, the Company has been required to provide incentive pay and increase certain starting wage rates to address these challenges. Although the Company has surpassed pre-pandemic staffing levels as of December 31, 2023, staffing-related challenges could continue to occur in certain areas and 36 limit the Company's ability to optimally adjust capacity. The inability to recruit and retain skilled personnel or the unexpected loss of key skilled personnel could continue to adversely affect the Company’s operations. The Company is currently dependent on a single engine supplier, as well as single suppliers of certain other aircraft parts and equipment; therefore, the Company could be materially adversely affected (i) if it were unable to obtain timely or sufficient delivery of aircraft parts or equipment from Boeing or other suppliers or adequate maintenance or other support from any of these suppliers at commercially reasonable terms, (ii) if Boeing or other suppliers were unable to achieve and/or maintain required regulatory certifications or approvals of their parts or equipment, or (iii) in the event of a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with the Company's aircraft parts or equipment. The Company is dependent on Boeing as its sole supplier for many of its aircraft parts. The Company is also dependent on sole or limited suppliers for aircraft engines and certain other aircraft parts, equipment, and services. If Boeing, or other suppliers, were unable or unwilling to timely provide adequate products or support for their products at commercially reasonable terms, were unable to achieve and/or maintain required regulatory certifications or approvals of their parts or equipment, or in the event of a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with engines or other parts or services, the Company's operations could be materially adversely affected. The Company could also be materially adversely affected if the pricing or operational attributes of its aircraft parts or equipment were to become less competitive. The Company is also dependent on third-party vendors and service providers. The COVID-19 pandemic and current economic conditions have resulted, and could continue to result, in delays and other performance issues, ceased operations, or even bankruptcies among suppliers, third-party vendors, and service providers. Further failures of suppliers, third-party vendors, or service providers to timely provide adequate products or support for their products, or otherwise fulfill their commitments to the Company, could materially adversely affect the Company’s operations. The airline industry has faced on-going security concerns and related cost burdens; further threatened or actual terrorist attacks, war, or other hostilities, even if not made directly on the airline industry, could significantly harm the airline industry and the Company's operations. Terrorist attacks or other crimes and hostilities, actual and threatened, have from time to time materially adversely affected the demand for air travel and have necessitated increased safety and security measures and related costs for the Company and the airline industry generally. Safety and security measures can create delays and inconveniences, which in turn can reduce the Company's competitiveness against surface transportation for short-haul routes and alternatives to transportation such as videoconferencing, business communication platforms, and the Internet. Additional terrorist attacks or other hostilities, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of such attacks or other hostilities (including elevated national threat warnings, government travel warnings to certain destinations, travel restrictions, or selective cancellation or redirection of flights due to terror threats) would likely have a further significant negative impact on the Company and the airline industry. Interruptions or disruptions in service at one of the Company’s core stations have had, and could in the future have, a material adverse impact on its operations. In recent years, the Company has increasingly focused on designing its network around core stations in an effort to provide greater connectivity and support operational reliability and recoverability. A significant interruption or disruption in service at one of the Company’s core stations (such as Denver or Chicago-Midway), resulting from air traffic control systems, weather incidents, performance by third-party service providers, interruption of the Company’s technology, the availability and location of the Company’s crew resources, fuel supplies, or otherwise, has resulted, and could again in the future result, in the cancellation or delay of a significant portion of the Company’s flights and, as a result, has had, and could again in the future have, a severe impact on its business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s operations have been, and in the future may again be, materially and adversely disrupted by extreme weather events. An inability to quickly and effectively restore operations following adverse weather, a 37 localized disaster, or disturbance in a key geography has adversely and materially impacted, and in the future could again adversely and materially impact, the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. While the Company operates across a diverse geographic footprint, its operations at times have been adversely and materially impacted by severe weather, such as Hurricanes Harvey and Irma in 2017 and Winter Storm Elliott in December 2022. Depending on location, the Company’s assets and route network are or could be exposed to ongoing risks arising from a variety of adverse weather conditions or localized natural or manmade disasters such as earthquakes, volcanoes, wildfires (such as the 2023 Maui wildfires), hurricanes, tropical storms, tornadoes, floods, sea-level rise, severe winter weather, sustained or extreme cold or heat, drought, or other disturbances, actual or threatened. Extreme weather conditions, including increases in the frequency, severity, or duration of severe weather events (whether or not caused by anthropogenic climate change), can disrupt air travel from time to time, ground planes, damage equipment and increase maintenance costs, cause delays and cancellations or other network disruptions, require implementation of weight limitations due to increased temperatures, increase turbulence-related injuries, cause increases in fuel consumption to avoid such weather, disrupt the Company’s supply chains (including fuel, parts, and service provider disruptions), and otherwise adversely affect the Company’s assets, operations, and infrastructure. These events can decrease revenue, increase costs, and adversely impact the Company’s financial condition. Prolonged interruptions or disruptions at airports can and do also adversely impact the Company’s business and results of operations. The Company also may incur significant costs to reestablish or relocate affected business functions, aircraft, and Employees. Moreover, any resulting economic dislocations could adversely affect demand for the Company’s services, resulting in an adverse effect on its business, results of operations, and financial condition. The airline industry is made up of inherently complex systems and is affected by many conditions that are beyond its control, which can impact the Company's business strategies and results of operations. In addition to the unpredictable economic conditions and fuel costs previously discussed, the Company, like the airline industry in general, is affected by conditions that are largely unforeseeable and outside of its control, including, among others: • adverse weather and natural disasters and the associated effects on the Company's operations, which have, in certain circumstances, such as Winter Storm Elliott, impacted the Company's operational recovery to a greater degree than other airlines; • changes in consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns, or demographic trends (including, for example, changes in travel patterns due to economic conditions, weather, or government restrictions, sequestration, or shutdowns); • actual or potential disruptions in the air traffic control system (including, for example, as a result of FAA system outages or inadequate FAA staffing levels, as the United States has recently seen a shortage of air traffic controllers); • actual or perceived delays at various airports resulting from government restrictions (including, for example, longer wait-times at TSA checkpoints due to inadequate TSA staffing levels); • changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation, industry bankruptcies, and other factors; • delays in deliveries of new aircraft (including, for example, due to delays in the manufacturing process, in FAA certification, or due to the closure of the FAA's aircraft registry during government restrictions or shutdowns); • collective bargaining requirements and demands; • reliance on third-party facilities, goods, and/or services essential to its operations and/or business such as airports, de-icing services, fuel supply and delivery, and weather data and other critical information; • outbreaks of disease such as the COVID-19 pandemic; and • actual or threatened war, terrorist attacks, government travel warnings to certain destinations, travel restrictions, and political instability. 38 Because airline systems are inherently and unavoidably complex, large or small events, especially when in combination, can create opportunity for a systemic incident. The potential triggers for incidents and failures change constantly because of changing technology, work organization, efforts to eradicate those potential triggers, and other factors. Events or combinations of events such as those described above have had, and could have, a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. Information Technology Risks The Company is increasingly dependent on technology to operate its business and continues to implement substantial changes to its information systems; any failure, disruption, breach, or delay in implementation of necessary changes of the Company's information systems could materially adversely affect its operations. The Company is increasingly dependent on the use of complex technology and systems to run its ongoing operations and support its strategic objectives. These technologies and systems include, among others, the Company's website and reservation system; flight dispatch and tracking systems; flight simulators; check-in kiosks; aircraft maintenance, planning, and record keeping systems; telecommunications systems; flight planning and scheduling systems; crew scheduling systems; human resources systems; and financial planning, management, and accounting systems. The performance, reliability, and security of the Company's technology infrastructure and supporting systems are critical to the Company's operations and initiatives. Implementation and integration of complex systems and technology present significant challenges in terms of costs, human resources, and development of effective internal controls. Implementation and integration require a balancing between the introduction of new capabilities and the managing of existing systems, and present the risk of operational or security inadequacy or interruption, which could materially affect the Company's ability to effectively operate its business and/or could negatively impact the Company's results of operations. The Company is also reliant upon the performance of third parties for timely and effective implementation and support of many of its technology initiatives, to provide required data and information services, and for maintaining adequate information security measures within the services and/or software they deliver, and such third parties are occasionally not timely or adequate in providing the services required by the Company. If any of the Company's significant technologies or third-party systems were to cease functioning, or if its third-party service providers or data providers were to fail to adequately and timely provide required information or reports, technical support, system maintenance, security, or software upgrades for any of the Company’s existing systems, the Company could experience service interruptions, delays, and loss of critical data, which could harm its operations and result in financial losses and reputational damage. In the ordinary course of business, the Company’s systems will continue to require modification and refinements to address operational reliability, growth, and changing business requirements. In addition, the Company’s systems may require modification to enable the Company to comply with changing regulatory requirements. Modifications and refinements to the Company’s systems have been and are expected to continue to be expensive to implement and can divert management’s attention from other matters. Changes to the Company’s technology and systems could also expose the Company to intellectual property risks, such as allegations of infringement of third-party patents or copyrights. Defending against allegations could involve significant fees and resources. If the Company is found to infringe, the Company may be liable for damages. In addition, the Company’s operations could be adversely affected, or the Company could face imposition of regulatory penalties, if it were unable to timely or effectively modify its systems as necessary or appropriately balance the introduction of new capabilities with the management of existing systems. Certain new technologies, such as the use of AI, present new and significant risks related to intellectual property, personal data, and confidentiality, among others. The development of generative AI technologies is complex, and there are legal and practical challenges associated with achieving the desired level of accuracy, efficiency, and reliability. The algorithms and models utilized in generative AI systems may have limitations, including biases, errors, or inability to handle certain data types or scenarios. Furthermore, there is a risk of system failures, disruptions, or vulnerabilities that could compromise the confidentiality, integrity, or availability 39 of the generated content. The legal landscape is also developing around generative AI technologies and generated content, and the Company's ability to use and commercialize generated content may be affected by legal developments related to intellectual property rights in generated content. These limitations or failures could result in reputational damage, legal liabilities, or loss of Customer confidence. There can be no assurance that the usage of AI will enhance the Company’s strategies or initiatives. The Company has experienced material technology system interruptions and delays that have made its websites and operational systems unavailable or slow to respond, which has prevented the Company from efficiently processing Customer transactions or providing services. Any future system interruptions or delays could reduce the Company's operating revenues and the attractiveness of its services, as well as increase the Company's costs. Similarly, the Company has experienced operational challenges in connection with severe weather events and associated crew scheduling, such as during and subsequent to Winter Storm Elliott. While the Company’s crew scheduling software worked as designed during this event, due to a number of factors, including unanticipated changes in the severity of the weather, the Company began implementing frequent close-in flight cancellations. As the situation escalated and close-in flight cancellations grew, the volume of unanticipated changes were too great to efficiently address through the crew scheduling software, resulting in individual crew member assignment updates being delayed in a significant number of instances. Without updated, accurate crew member data, the Company’s crew scheduling software could not reassign crew members to solve for flights with crew coverage issues. As a result, during 2023 the Company enhanced its crew scheduling software to help the Company during events that could result in a large number of broken crew pairings. Any future operational disruptions or delays could reduce the Company’s operating revenues and the attractiveness of its services, as well as increase the Company’s costs. The Company's technologies and related systems and functions could be damaged or interrupted by catastrophic events beyond its control such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes, power loss, computer and telecommunications failures, acts of war or terrorism, computer viruses, malware, ransomware, security breaches, and similar events or disruptions generally beyond the Company’s control. Any of these events could cause system interruptions, delays, and loss of critical data, and could prevent the Company from processing Customer transactions or providing services, which could make the Company's business and services less attractive and subject the Company to liability. Any of these events could damage the Company's reputation and be expensive to remedy. Developing and expanding data security and privacy requirements could increase the Company's operating costs, and any failure of the Company to maintain the security of certain Customer, Employee, and business-related information could result in disruption to operations and damage to the Company's reputation and could be costly to remediate. Many of these laws and regulations are subject to change and reinterpretation, and could result in claims, changes to the Company’s business practices, monetary penalties, increased cost of operations, or other harm to the Company’s business. The Company must receive information related to its Customers and Employees in order to run its business, and the Company's operations depend upon secure processing, storage, and retention, including the secure transmission of information over public networks such as for information permitting cashless payments. All information processed, stored, and retained by Company or on behalf of Company is subject to the continually evolving risk of intrusion, tampering, and theft. Although the Company maintains systems to prevent or defend against these risks, these systems require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change, and security could be compromised, personal or confidential information could be misappropriated, or system disruptions could occur. In the ordinary course of its business, the Company also provides certain confidential, proprietary, and personal information to third parties. While the Company seeks to obtain assurances that these third parties will protect this information and systems in accordance with legal requirements and industry standards, there is a risk the security of systems and data held by third parties could be compromised. A compromise of the Company's systems could adversely affect the Company's reputation and disrupt its operations and could also result in litigation against the Company or the imposition of penalties. In addition, it could be costly to remediate. Although the Company has not experienced cyber incidents that are individually, or in the aggregate, material, the Company has experienced cyber-attacks in 40 the past, which have thus far been mitigated by preventative, detective, and responsive measures put in place by the Company. In addition, in response to these types of threats, there has been heightened legislative and regulatory focus on data privacy and security in the United States, European Union, and elsewhere. The regulatory framework for data privacy and security worldwide is continuously evolving and developing and, as a result, the Company must monitor a growing and fast-evolving set of legal requirements and geopolitical risks in this area. This regulatory environment is increasingly challenging and may present material obligations and risks to the Company's business, including significantly expanded compliance requirements, costs, and enforcement risks. As a result, it is possible that these types of inquiries regarding cybersecurity incidents increase in frequency and scope. In addition, new laws, amendments to or reinterpretations of existing laws, regulations, standards, and other obligations may require the Company or its third-party service providers to incur additional costs and restrict its business operations, and may require the Company or its third-party service providers to change how they use, collect, store, transfer, or otherwise process certain types of personal information and to implement new processes to comply with those laws and its Customers’ exercise of their rights thereunder. These laws also are not uniform, as certain laws may be more stringent or broader in scope, or offer greater individual rights, with respect to sensitive and personal information, and such laws may differ from each other, which may complicate compliance efforts. Accordingly, compliance in the event of a widespread data breach may be costly. Any failure or perceived failure by the Company or its third-party service providers to comply with any applicable federal, state, or similar foreign laws, rules, regulations, industry standards, policies, certifications, or orders relating to data privacy and security, or any compromise of security that results in the theft, unauthorized access, acquisition, use, disclosure, or misappropriation of personal data or other customer data, could result in significant awards, fines, civil and/or criminal penalties or judgments, proceedings, or litigation by governmental agencies or customers, including class action privacy litigation in certain jurisdictions and negative publicity and reputational harm, one or all of which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s reputation, business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company has a dedicated cybersecurity team and program that focuses on current and emerging data security matters. The Company continues to assess and invest in the growing needs of the cybersecurity team through the allocation of skilled personnel, ongoing training, and support of the adoption and implementation of technologies coupled with cybersecurity risk management frameworks. Additionally, as cyber attacks become increasingly sophisticated, the Company may also incur significant costs to modify, upgrade, or enhance its cybersecurity measures to protect against such attacks. The Company may not be able to anticipate, detect, or prevent cyberattacks or security breaches, particularly because the methodologies used by attackers change frequently or may not be recognized until such attack is launched, and because attackers are increasingly using technologies specifically designed to circumvent cybersecurity measures and avoid detection. The Company offers the ability to work remotely to many of the Company's office and clerical Employees, including many of its Employees at the Company's headquarters campus. Maintaining a remote work force significantly increases the risk of cyber incidents and events, such as computer viruses and security breaches, due to increased targeted attacks, which have thus far been mitigated by preventative, detective, and responsive measures put in place by the Company. The Company carries a cybersecurity insurance policy with regards to data protection and business interruption associated with both security breaches from malicious parties and from certain system failures. However, available cybersecurity insurance with regards to data protection and business interruption could be more expensive in the future and/or have material differences in coverage than insurance that has historically been provided and may not be adequate to protect the Company's risk of loss of its data or proprietary and confidential information. Legal, Regulatory, Compliance, and Reputational Risks The Company is subject to extensive FAA regulation that may disrupt or necessitate modifications to the Company’s operations, business plans, and strategies. 41 The FAA promulgates and enforces regulations affecting the airline industry and exercises extensive regulatory oversight of the Company’s operations. The FAA from time to time also issues orders or directives relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft. FAA orders and directives can be issued with little or no notice, and in certain instances, require the temporary grounding of aircraft, such as the FAA’s March 2019 grounding of all Boeing 737 MAX aircraft, and/or the responsive investment of operational and financial resources. The issuance of new FAA regulations, regulatory amendments, or orders or directives, such as FAA restrictions associated with certain wireless telecommunications systems, could result in flight schedule adjustments and groundings or delays in aircraft deliveries, as well as lower operating revenues, operating income, and net income due to a variety of factors, including, among others, (i) lost revenue due to flight cancellations and operational disruptions as a result of a smaller operating aircraft fleet, (ii) the lack of ability to make corresponding reductions in expenses because of the fixed nature of many expenses, and (iii) possible negative effects on Customer confidence and airline choice. Government regulation affecting the Company is discussed in more detail in “Airport capacity constraints and air traffic control inefficiencies have limited and could continue to limit the Company's growth; changes in or additional governmental regulation could increase the Company's operating costs or otherwise limit the Company's ability to conduct business” and under “Business - Regulation.” Airport capacity constraints and air traffic control inefficiencies have limited and could continue to limit the Company's growth; changes in or additional governmental regulation could increase the Company's operating costs or otherwise limit the Company's ability to conduct business. Almost all commercial service airports are owned and/or operated by units of local or state governments. Airlines are largely dependent on these governmental entities to provide adequate airport facilities and capacity at an affordable cost. In order to operate efficiently, as well as to add service in current and new markets, the Company must be able to maintain and/or obtain space and facilities at desirable airports with adequate infrastructure. Airport space, facility, and infrastructure constraints may prevent the Company from maintaining existing service and/or implementing new service in a commercially viable manner. Similarly, the federal government singularly controls all U.S. airspace, and airlines are dependent on the FAA controlling that airspace in a safe and efficient manner. The current air traffic control system is mainly radar-based, supported in large part by antiquated equipment and technologies, and heavily dependent on skilled personnel. As a result, the air traffic control system may not be able to effectively keep pace with future air traffic growth. The FAA's protracted transition to modernized air traffic control systems and newer technologies could adversely impact airspace capacity and the overall efficiency of the system, resulting in limited opportunities for the Company to grow, longer scheduled flight times, increased delays and cancellations, and increased fuel consumption and aircraft emissions. For example, due to air traffic control staffing challenges, government agencies have had to implement short-term capacity constraints during peak travel periods or adverse weather conditions in certain markets, resulting in delays and disruptions of air traffic. The continuation of these air traffic control constraints or the FAA's inability to meet staffing needs on a long-term basis may have a material adverse effect on the Company's operations. As discussed under "Business - Regulation," airlines are also subject to other extensive regulatory requirements. These requirements often impose substantial costs on airlines. The Company's strategic plans and results of operations could be negatively affected by changes in law and future actions taken by domestic and foreign governmental agencies having jurisdiction over its operations, including, but not limited to: • increases in airport rates and charges; • limitations on airport gate capacity or use of other airport facilities; • limitations on route authorities; • actions and decisions that create difficulties in obtaining access at slot-controlled airports (a "slot" is the right of an air carrier, pursuant to regulations of the FAA or local authorities, to operate a takeoff or landing at certain airports); • actions and decisions that create difficulties in obtaining operating permits and approvals; • changes to environmental regulations; 42 • mandates that affect the usage of SAF; • enhanced emissions and climate reporting obligations; • mandates on and regulation of existing products and services; • new or increased taxes or fees, such as with respect to potential increases to the federal corporate income tax rate, and such as those contained in the Inflation Reduction Act, including a potential corporate alternative minimum tax or potential taxes imposed on share repurchases, which may affect the Company’s decisions with respect to capital markets; • changes to laws that affect the services that can be offered by airlines in particular markets and at particular airports; • restrictions on competitive practices; • changes in laws that increase costs for safety, security, compliance, or other Customer Service standards; • changes in laws that may limit the Company's ability to enter into fuel derivative contracts to hedge against increases in fuel prices; • changes in laws that may limit or regulate the Company's ability to promote the Company’s business or fares; • changes in laws that could affect the value of the Company’s existing contracts or agreements, such as its co-branded credit card agreement; • airspace closures or restrictions, such as restrictions on operations in markets where certain wireless telecommunications systems may cause interference with certain aircraft avionics; • grounding of commercial air traffic by the FAA; and • the adoption of more restrictive locally imposed noise regulations. The Company is subject to various environmental requirements and risks, including increased regulation, changing consumer preferences, physical, environmental, and climate risks, and risks associated with climate change; the cost of compliance with more stringent environmental regulations, failure to comply with environmental regulations, or failure to otherwise manage the risks of climate change effectively could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company is subject to evolving federal, state, local, and international laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those relating to aircraft and ground-based emissions, discharges to water systems, safe drinking water, and the management of hazardous substances and waste materials. In addition, while the Company cannot predict what requirements may be imposed in the future, federal, state, local, and international legislative and regulatory bodies are generally increasingly focused on climate change and reducing greenhouse gas emissions (“GHG”), including CO 2 emissions. For example, as discussed in more detail under “Business – Regulation,” the federal government, as well as several state and local governments, the governments of other countries, and the United Nations’ International Civil Aviation Organization have implemented legislative and regulatory proposals and voluntary measures intended to reduce GHG emissions. Future policy, legal, regulatory, or other market developments could require the Company to reduce its emissions, increase its usage of SAF and other forms of lower carbon energy, modify its supply chain practices or aspects of its operations, make capital investments to purchase specific types of equipment or technologies, secure carbon offset credits, disclose or report additional GHG information, or otherwise incur additional costs related to climate objectives or because of the Company’s GHG emissions. Additional regulation could result in increased regulatory or permitting requirements for the Company from multiple jurisdictions, as well as added costs on fuel suppliers that may be passed through to the Company. For example, the California Air Resources Board has proposed amendments to California’s Low Carbon Fuel Standard (“ LCFS”) regulation that would subject intrastate fossil jet fuel to the LCFS, which could in turn increase the demand for and the costs of the limited supply of SAF currently available. The proposed amendments could also result in increased costs of fossil jet fuel in the California market because of the need for jet fuel producers to produce SAF or buy LCFS credits. Other states could propose or adopt similar obligations in the future. Until the timing, scope, and extent of such future policy, legal, regulatory, or other market developments become known, the Company cannot predict their effect on the Company’s cost structure or its operating results. Violations of environmental and climate change-related laws and regulations could lead to significant fines and penalties and reputational harm. The Company could also face increased risks of litigation resulting from any enhanced disclosure requirements related to climate change. 43 In addition to risks from potential changes to environmental regulation and policy, the transition to lower-carbon technologies could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial results. For example, lower-carbon technologies, such as SAF, are currently not available at scale and may take a significant amount of time to develop and mature, and the cost to transition to them could be prohibitively expensive without appropriate government support, policies, and incentives in place (including tax credits). For additional disclosure related to the risks of SAF, see the Risk Factor entitled, “The Company is subject to risks related to its sustainability goals and disclosures, which may affect stakeholder sentiment and the Company’s reputation and brand.” Concern among consumers of the impacts of climate change may mean some customers choose to fly less frequently or fly on an airline they perceive as operating in a manner that is more sustainable to the climate, and customers may choose to use alternatives to travel, such as virtual meetings and workspaces. Greater development of high-speed rail in markets now served by short-haul flights could provide passengers with lower-carbon alternatives to flying. Longer-term changes in weather patterns could adversely impact any of the Company’s destination cities and, as a result, alter Customers’ travel behavior. The Company’s collateral to secure loans, including in the form of aircraft, could lose value as customer demand shifts and economies move to low-carbon alternatives, which may increase the Company’s financing costs. In addition, major financial institutions have begun to announce greenhouse gas emissions reductions targets for their financed activities in the aviation sector. To the extent that the Company's climate targets are not perceived to align with those of its lenders, the Company's access to credit may be adversely impacted. Finally, the potential acute and chronic physical effects of climate change, such as increased frequency, duration, and severity of extreme weather events, longer-term changes in weather patterns, and other climate-related events, could affect the Company’s operations, infrastructure, and financial results. The Company could incur significant costs to improve the climate resiliency of its operations, infrastructure, and supply chain, and otherwise prepare for, respond to, and mitigate such physical effects of climate change. The Company could also incur additional airport fees or other costs related to the infrastructure which supports the commercial aviation industry. The Company is not able to predict accurately the materiality of any potential losses or costs associated with the physical effects of climate change. For additional disclosure related to impacts to the Company’s operations resulting from extreme weather events, see the Risk Factor entitled, “The Company's operations have been, and in the future may again be, materially and adversely disrupted by extreme weather events. An inability to quickly and effectively restore operations following adverse weather or a localized disaster or disturbance in a key geography has adversely and materially impacted, and in the future could again adversely and materially impact, the Company's business, results of operations, and financial condition” in the “Operational Risks” section. The Company is subject to risks related to its sustainability goals and disclosures, which may affect stakeholder sentiment and the Company’s reputation and brand. In addition to responding to legislative and regulatory requirements, the Company has voluntarily set near- and long-term environmental sustainability plans and goals. The achievement of these plans and goals is materially dependent on the performance of third parties and government action, and these goals could be adversely affected by changes in third party expectations, methodologies, and priorities. The Company expects its path toward achievement of these goals to depend on, among other things (i) increased use of SAF, which is not presently available at scale or at prices competitive to jet fuel; (ii) improved fuel efficiency from fleet modernization; (iii) operational initiatives; and (iv) technological innovation. The Company is attempting to diversify its sources of jet fuel or otherwise seek to limit its reliance on fossil-fuel based fuels, such as through increasing the volumes of SAF used in its operations. Supplies of SAF are limited and may not be developed in sufficient quantities to support the Company’s business or sustainability goals. The cost to transition to SAF could be prohibitively expensive without appropriate government support, policies, and incentives in place (including tax credits). Further, SAF incentives that are currently in place could expire or be repealed, and the Company may have binding SAF purchase commitments that extend beyond various incentives currently in place. Additionally, SAF purchase agreements may pertain to production from facilities that are planned but not yet 44 operational, and which may utilize technology that has not been proven at commercial scale. There is no assurance that these facilities will produce SAF at commercial scale or that they will meet contracted production timelines and volumes. SAF has a limited distribution system and is subject to higher transportation risks than jet fuel. In the event SAF is not delivered on schedule or in sufficient volumes, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to source a supply of SAF sufficient to meet its stated goals, or that it will be able to do so on favorable economic terms. As more businesses publicly announce environmental sustainability goals, it could become increasingly more difficult to negotiate SAF purchase agreements with suppliers at commercially reasonable terms. Moreover, there is no guarantee that Customers, regulators, or other stakeholders will not object to any use of “book and claim” accounting methods (or similar constructs) for claims of GHG emission reductions in connection with the Company’s SAF purchase agreements, as such claims may be based on the separation of potential GHG emission reductions from the physical delivery of SAF. The Company cannot guarantee that it will be able to purchase SAF on a cost-effective basis , and in addition to the factors already discussed, the ability to leverage SAF as part of its sustainability efforts could also be adversely affected by any of the following: technology challenges in the production, development, transportation, storage, and distribution of SAF; compliance with and/or changes to government regulations; modifications to or failure of industry standards, accounting protocols, approaches to modeling life cycle GHG emissions, or other applicable requirements to allow the Company to realize benefits from SAF (including blend limitations); or changes in carbon costs or climate-related goals. Furthermore, to the extent that the Company may seek to achieve its voluntary climate goals and mandatory climate obligations through the use of carbon offsets, it may be exposed to additional costs associated with the procurement of offsets or limited supply in the carbon offsets market. In addition, to the extent the Company does utilize offsets, it will need to obtain these offsets from third parties, and while the Company generally seeks to purchase only quality offsets verified by reputable third parties, it can make no guarantees that the underlying offset project will provide the full or any claimed GHG emission reduction benefits , nor can it guarantee that any such offsets will not be subject to criticism from Customers, regulators, or other stakeholders . As more businesses have publicly announced environmental sustainability goals, the cost of carbon offsets has also increased significantly and will likely continue to do so. The Company’s ability to achieve its environmental sustainability goals is subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of its control. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: the Company’s ability to successfully implement its business strategy, effectively respond to changes in market dynamics, and achieve the anticipated benefits and associated cost savings of such strategies and actions; the Company’s ability to implement its fleet modernization or planned fuel efficiency initiatives; availability and ability to utilize SAF at economical prices and with expected carbon intensity reductions; advancement in modernizing air traffic control systems; unforeseen production, design, operational, and technological difficulties; the outcome of research efforts and future technology developments, including the ability to scale projects and technologies on a commercially competitive basis; compliance with, and changes or additions to, global and regional regulations, taxes, charges, mandates, or requirements relating to GHG emissions, carbon costs, or climate-related goals; changes to emission accounting methodologies; adapting products to customer preferences and customer acceptance of sustainable supply chain solutions; the actions of competitors and competitive pressures; or other new developments related to the potential impacts of climate change. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully execute its strategies and achieve its previously announced environmental and sustainability goals and plans. The Company also makes certain disclosures regarding sustainability, including the Company’s sustainability goals and plans to address carbon emissions, and many of these disclosures are necessarily based on (i) estimates and assumptions that are inherently difficult to assess and may involve third-party data that the Company does not independently verify, and (ii) timelines that are longer than the timelines associated with the Company’s required disclosures. Given the estimates, assumptions, and timelines used to create these disclosures, the materiality of these disclosures is inherently difficult to assess in advance, and given the uncertainty of the estimates and assumptions used to create these disclosures, the Company may not be able to anticipate in advance whether or the degree to which it will or will not be able to meet its sustainability plans or goals, or how expensive it will be to do so. 45 Additionally, the Company is subject to increasing regulation imposing mandatory disclosure of sustainability and climate-related goals. As discussed under “Business—Regulation—Environmental Regulation,” the state of California recently enacted a number of new climate-disclosure related laws, including the CCDAA and CRFRA, that require GHG emissions or climate-related risk disclosures, and the VCMDA that requires disclosure regarding the use of voluntary carbon offsets in certain circumstances. The reporting obligations of the CCDAA, CRFRA, VCMDA, and other state or federal laws or rules requiring the disclosure of climate-related risks or emissions may cause the Company to incur additional increased costs for compliance as well as increased costs regarding access to capital. Failure to comply with these disclosure laws and regulations can result in the imposition of substantial fines or penalties. Enhanced climate-related disclosures pursuant to these requirements could also lead to reputational or other harm with Customers, regulators, investors, or other stakeholders. The Company could also face increased litigation risks relating to alleged direct or indirect climate-related damages resulting from the Company’s operations, statements alleged to have been made by the Company or others in the aviation industry regarding climate change risks, or in connection with any future disclosures the Company may make regarding reported emissions, particularly given the inherent uncertainties and estimations with respect to calculating and reporting GHG emissions. The Company’s reputation or brand, as well as its Customer and other stakeholder relationships, could be adversely impacted as a result of, among other things, (i) any failure to meet its sustainability plans or goals, including those that relate to climate change; (ii) the Company’s impact on the environment; or (iii) public pressure from investors or policy groups to change the Company's policies. In the future, the Company's efforts to meet its sustainability plans or goals may divert Company resources or management's attention from other matters. The Company's future results will suffer if it is unable to effectively manage its international operations and/or Extended Operations ("ETOPS"). The Company's international flights are subject to CBP-mandated procedures, which can affect the Company's operations, costs, and Customer experience. The Company has made significant investments in facilities, equipment, and technologies at certain airports in order to improve the Customer experience and to assist CBP with its inspection and processing duties; however, the Company is not able to predict the impact, if any, that various CBP measures or the lack of CBP resources will have on Company revenues and costs, either in the short-term or the long-term. International flying requires the Company to modify certain processes, as the airport environment can be dramatically different in certain international locations with respect to, among other things, common-use ticket counters and gate areas, passenger entry requirements (including health requirements), local operating requirements, staffing, infrastructure, and cultural preferences. Certain international routes served by the Company are also subject to specific aircraft equipage requirements and unique consumer behavior. Route-specific equipage requirements and unique consumer behavior, together or individually, may (i) restrict the Company's flexibility when scheduling and routing aircraft and crews; (ii) require the Company to modify its policies or procedures; and (iii) impact the Company's operational performance, costs, and Customer experience. In addition, international flying exposes the Company to certain foreign currency risks to the extent the Company chooses to, or is required to, transact in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. To the extent the Company seeks to serve additional international destinations in the future, or to renew its authority to serve certain routes, it may be required to obtain necessary authority from the DOT and/or approvals from the FAA, as well as any applicable foreign government entity. The Company's operations in non-U.S. jurisdictions may subject the Company to the laws of those jurisdictions rather than, or in addition to, U.S. laws. Laws in some jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the United States, and these differences can affect the Company's ability to react to changes in its business, and its rights or ability to enforce rights may be different than would be expected under U.S. laws. Furthermore, enforcement of laws in some jurisdictions can be inconsistent and unpredictable, which can affect both the Company's ability to enforce its rights and to undertake activities that it believes are beneficial to its business. As a result, the Company's ability to generate revenue and its expenses in non-U.S. jurisdictions may differ from what would be expected if U.S. laws governed these operations. Although the Company has policies and procedures in 46 place that are designed to promote compliance with the laws of the jurisdictions in which it operates, a violation by the Company's Employees, contractors, or agents or other intermediaries could nonetheless occur. Any violation (or alleged or perceived violation), even if prohibited by the Company's policies, could have an adverse effect on the Company's reputation and/or its results of operations. In 2019, the Company began service to Hawaii after receiving approval from the FAA for ETOPS, a regulatory requirement to operate between the U.S. mainland and the Hawaiian Islands. The Company is subject to additional, ongoing, ETOPS-specific regulatory and procedural requirements, which present operational and compliance risks to the Company’s business, including costs associated therewith. The Company is currently subject to regulatory actions and pending litigation, and if judgment, penalties, or fines were to be rendered against the Company, such judgment, penalties, or fines could adversely affect the Company's operating results. As discussed below under "Legal Proceedings," the Company is subject to regulatory actions and pending litigation. Regardless of merit, these litigation matters and any potential future claims against the Company may be both time consuming and disruptive to the Company's operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. Should the Company fail to prevail in these or other matters, the Company may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could materially adversely affect its business and might materially affect its financial condition and operating results and could cause reputational harm. Conflicting federal, state, and local laws and regulations may impose additional requirements and restrictions on the Company’s operations, which could increase the Company’s operating costs, result in service disruptions, and increase litigation risk. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal requirements at the federal, state, and local levels that require substantial compliance costs and that may be inconsistent with each other. These laws could affect the Company’s relationship with its workforce and cause its expenses to increase without an ability to pass through these costs. In recent years, the airline industry has experienced an increase in litigation asserting the application of state and local employment laws. Application of state and local laws to the Company’s operations may conflict with federal laws—or with the laws of other states and local governments—and may subject the Company to additional requirements and restrictions. Moreover, application of these state and local laws may result in operational disruption, increased litigation risk, and negative effects on the Company’s collective bargaining agreements. Adverse litigation results in any of these cases could adversely impact the Company’s operational flexibility and result in the imposition of damages and fines, which could potentially be significant. The Company’s reputation and brand could be harmed if it were to experience significant negative publicity through social media or otherwise, including with respect to the Company's voluntary ESG-related goals and disclosures. The Company operates in a public-facing industry with significant exposure to social media. Negative publicity, whether or not justified, can spread rapidly through social media. The Company’s reputation or brand, as well as its Customer and other stakeholder relationships, could be adversely impacted as a result of, among other things, (i) any failure to meet its ESG plans or goals; (ii) Customer perceptions of the Company’s advertising campaigns, sponsorship arrangements or marketing programs; (iii) Customer perceptions of the Company’s use of social media; (iv) Customer and other stakeholder perceptions of statements made by the Company, its Employees and executives, agents, any industry trade associations, or other third parties; or (v) public pressure from investors or policy groups to change the Company's policies. Such statements or initiatives with respect to ESG matters are increasingly subject to heightened scrutiny from the public and governmental authorities, as well as other parties, due to the risk of potential “greenwashing,” i.e. , the process of conveying misleading information or making false claims that overstate potential ESG benefits. As a result, the Company may face increased litigation risks from private parties or regulatory scrutiny from governmental authorities related to its ESG efforts. Moreover, any alleged claims of greenwashing against the Company or others in the aviation industry may lead to negative 47 sentiment or perception of the Company, its brand, or the industry. To the extent that the Company is unable to respond timely and appropriately to negative publicity, the Company’s reputation and brand can be harmed. Damage to the Company’s overall reputation and brand could have a negative impact on its financial results and require additional resources for the Company to rebuild its reputation. The Company’s Bylaws designate specific courts as the exclusive forum for certain legal actions between the Company and its Shareholders, which could increase costs to bring a claim, discourage claims, or limit the ability of the Company’s Shareholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum viewed by the Shareholders as more favorable for disputes with the Company or the Company’s directors, officers, or other Employees. The Company’s Bylaws provide, to the fullest extent permitted by law, that, unless the Company consents in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas or, if such court lacks jurisdiction, the state district court of Dallas County, Texas, will, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, be the sole and exclusive forum for (a) any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of the Company; (b) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director, officer, or other Employee of the Company to the Company or the Company’s Shareholders; (c) any action asserting a claim against the Company or any director, officer, or other Employee of the Company pursuant to any provision of the Company’s Restated Certificate of Formation or Bylaws (as either may be amended from time to time) or the Texas Business Organizations Code; and (d) any action asserting a claim against the Company or any director, officer, or other Employee of the Company governed by the internal affairs doctrine. The Company’s Bylaws also provide that, unless the Company consents in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the federal district courts of the United States of America will be the sole and exclusive forum for the resolution of any complaint asserting a cause of action under the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”). The Company notes, however, that there is uncertainty as to whether a court would enforce this provision and that investors cannot waive compliance with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. Section 22 of the Securities Act creates concurrent jurisdiction for state and federal courts over all suits brought to enforce any duty or liability created by the Securities Act or the rules and regulations thereunder. The forum selection provision may increase costs to bring a claim, discourage claims, or limit a Shareholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such Shareholder finds favorable for disputes with the Company or the Company’s directors, officers, or other Employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against the Company or the Company’s directors, officers, and other Employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find the forum selection provision contained in the Company’s Bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, the Company could incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

YEAR IN REVIEW The Company had record full year 2023 revenue performance, producing operating revenues of $26.1 billion, due to healthy leisure demand and continued yield strength combined with record ancillary revenue, loyalty program revenue, and passengers carried. The Company’s 2022 results were somewhat impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, as the Omicron variant of COVID-19 both impacted travel demand and created staffing challenges for the Company, particularly during January and February 2022. However, strong travel demand, especially associated with leisure travel, accelerated during March 2022 and continued through 2023. In 2023, the Company was able to focus on completing a comprehensive winter action plan, restoring its network and operational stability, reaching full utilization of its fleet, and delivering on significant new capabilities for its Customers. In late December 2022, the Company experienced a wide-scale operational disruption as extreme winter weather across a significant portion of the United States impacted its operational plan and flight schedules. Subsequent to Winter Storm Elliott, the Company was challenged to realign flight crews, flight schedules, and aircraft for a period of several days during this peak demand travel period. This disruption and subsequent recovery efforts resulted in the cancellation of more than 16,700 flights during the period from December 21 through December 31, 2022. For fourth quarter 2022, the Company estimated the financial impact of this disruption was approximately $800 million on a pre-tax basis. A significant portion of this impact in fourth quarter 2022 was due to the loss of Operating revenue associated with the flight cancellations that was estimated to be approximately $410 million, and the remaining impact primarily related to a net increase of approximately $390 million in operating expenses, primarily due to travel expense reimbursements to Customers, the estimated value of Rapid Rewards points offered as a gesture of goodwill to Customers that were expected to be redeemed, and premium pay and additional compensation for Employees, which were partially offset by lower fuel and oil and profitsharing expenses. For first quarter 2023, these events also created a deceleration in bookings, largely isolated to January and February 2023, as well as additional expenses primarily in the form of reimbursing Customers for costs incurred as a result of the flight cancellations. The financial impact of this disruption on first quarter 2023 results was approximately $380 million on a pre-tax basis. On October 27, 2023, the Department of Transportation ("DOT") notified the Company that it determined the Company had failed to provide adequate customer service assistance, prompt flight status notifications, and proper and prompt refunds and that the assessment of a civil penalty was warranted. During fourth quarter 2023, the Company accrued an expense of $107 million associated with a settlement reached with the DOT in December 2023 based on their investigation into the disruption, which includes a cash penalty and incorporates a future commitment for Southwest Customer care with a new Customer compensation policy. An additional $33 million penalty was also assessed by the DOT, but was able to be credited against the substantial value the Company had already provided to its Customers impacted by the disruption, and therefore did not result in further impact to the Company's financial results for 2023. Other than the fourth quarter 2023 charge associated with the DOT settlement, there were no material impacts to operating revenues or expenses as a result of this disruption beyond first quarter 2023. To boost operational resiliency in key areas across the Company and to mitigate the risk of a recurrence, the Company developed a three-part tactical action plan focused on improving winter operations, accelerating 62 operational-related investments, and enhancing cross-team collaboration. The Company's action plan was released in March 2023 and key winter operations steps were completed as of October 2023, as planned. The Company recorded results for 2023 and 2022, on an accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and non-GAAP basis, as noted in the following tables. See Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and the Reconciliation of Reported Amounts to Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional detail regarding non-GAAP financial measures. The Company's financial results, as shown above on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis for the year ended December 31, 2023 versus the year ended December 31, 2022, were affected by higher salaries, wages, and benefits expense and maintenance materials and repairs expense. On a GAAP basis, the Company's results for the year ended December 31, 2023 included incremental expense of $180 million for changes in estimate related to the contract ratification bonus for the Company's Flight Attendants as part of a tentative agreement reached in October 2023 and an incremental expense of $354 million for changes in estimate related to the contract ratification bonus for the Company's Pilots as part of a tentative agreement reached in December 2023, both of which were treated as special items and excluded from the Company's presentation of non-GAAP results. Additionally, due to the December 2022 operational disruption, as described above, the financial results on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis for the year ended December 31, 2023 included a negative financial impact of approximately $380 million on a pre-tax basis in first quarter 2023 and, on a GAAP basis, a $107 million charge on a pre-tax basis for the DOT settlement in fourth quarter 2023. The expense related to the tentative agreement with Pilots combined with the charge related to the settlement with the DOT resulted in the Company reporting a net loss of $252 million on a GAAP basis for fourth quarter 2023. Furthermore, on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis, the financial results for the year ended December 31, 2022 included a negative financial impact of approximately $800 million on a pre-tax basis in fourth quarter 2022 related to the December 2022 operational disruption and, on a GAAP basis, the financial results for the year ended December 31, 2022 included a $193 million pre-tax loss on extinguishment of debt primarily due to the repurchase of a portion of the Company's May 1, 2020 public offering of $2.3 billion aggregate principal amount of Convertible Senior notes (the "Convertible Notes"). See Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and the Reconciliation of Reported Amounts to Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional detail regarding non-GAAP financial measures. Operating Statistics The Company provides the operating data below for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 because these statistics are commonly used in the airline industry and, therefore, allow readers to compare the Company’s performance against its results for the prior year period, as well as against the performance of the Company’s peers. 63 (a) A revenue passenger mile is one paying passenger flown one mile. Also referred to as "traffic," which is a measure of demand for a given period. (b) An available seat mile is one seat (empty or full) flown one mile. Also referred to as "capacity," which is a measure of the space available to carry passengers in a given period. (c) Revenue passenger miles divided by available seat miles. (d) Seats flown is calculated using total number of seats available by aircraft type multiplied by the total trips flown by the same aircraft type during a particular period. (e) Seats per trip is calculated by dividing seats flown by trips flown. (f) Calculated as passenger revenue divided by revenue passenger miles. Also referred to as "yield," this is the average cost paid by a paying passenger to fly one mile, which is a measure of revenue production and fares. (g) Calculated as operating revenues divided by available seat miles. Also referred to as "operating unit revenues" or "RASM," this is a measure of operating revenue production based on the total available seat miles flown during a particular period. (h) Calculated as passenger revenue divided by available seat miles. Also referred to as "passenger unit revenues," this is a measure of passenger revenue production based on the total available seat miles flown during a particular period. (i) Calculated as operating expenses divided by available seat miles. Also referred to as "unit costs" or "cost per available seat mile," this is the average cost to fly an aircraft seat (empty or full) one mile, which is a measure of cost efficiencies. (j) Included four Boeing 737-700 ("700") Next Generation aircraft in temporary storage as of December 31, 2022. 2024 Outlook The following tables present selected financial guidance for first quarter and full year 2024: 64 (a) Operating revenue per available seat mile ("RASM" or "unit revenues"). (b) Available seat miles ("ASMs" or "capacity"). The Company's flight schedule is currently published for sale through October 2, 2024. The Company currently expects second quarter 2024 capacity to increase in the range of 8 percent to 10 percent, year-over-year, and third quarter 2024 capacity to increase in the range of 3 percent to 5 percent, year-over-year. (c) See Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information on special items. In addition, information regarding special items and economic results is included in the accompanying table Reconciliation of Reported Amounts to Non-GAAP Items (also referred to as "excluding special items"). (d) Based on the Company's existing fuel derivative contracts and market prices as of January 17, 2024, first quarter and full year 2024 economic fuel costs per gallon are estimated to be in the range of $2.70 to $2.80 and $2.55 to $2.65, respectively. Economic fuel cost projections do not reflect the potential impact of special items because the Company cannot reliably predict or estimate the hedge accounting impact associated with the volatility of the energy markets, or the impact to its financial statements in future periods. Accordingly, the Company believes a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the equivalent GAAP financial measures for projected results is not meaningful or available without unreasonable effort. See Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures. (e) Operating expenses per available seat mile, excluding fuel and oil expense, special items, and profitsharing ("CASM-X"). (f) Projections do not reflect the potential impact of fuel and oil expense, special items, and profitsharing because the Company cannot reliably predict or estimate those items or expenses or their impact to its financial statements in future periods, especially considering the significant volatility of the fuel and oil expense line item. Accordingly, the Company believes a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the equivalent GAAP financial measures for these projected results is not meaningful or available without unreasonable effort. (g) Aircraft on property, end of period. The Company currently plans for approximately 79 Boeing 737 MAX ("MAX") aircraft deliveries and 49 aircraft retirements in 2024, including 45 Boeing 737-700s ("-700") and four Boeing 737-800s ("-800"). The delivery schedule for the 737-7 ("-7") is dependent on the Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA") issuing required certifications and approvals to The Boeing Company ("Boeing") and the Company. The FAA will ultimately determine the timing of the -7 certification and entry into service, and Boeing may continue to experience supply chain challenges, so the Company offers no assurances that current estimations and timelines will be met. 65 The Company expects first quarter 2024 RASM to increase in the range of 2.5 percent to 4.5 percent, year-over-year. This increase includes an approximate five point tailwind due to the negative revenue impact incurred in first quarter 2023 associated with the December 2022 operational disruption. Sequentially, the performance represents a healthy improvement driven primarily by network optimization, market share contributions from the Company's Global Distribution System initiative, growth in the Rapid Rewards loyalty program, and continued strength in overall demand. The network optimization is materially complete with the March 2024 schedule, at which point the Company expects a return to profitability. The Company currently expects its first quarter 2024 CASM-X to increase in the range of 5 percent to 6 percent, year-over-year. Approximately two to three points of the increase are driven by higher 2024 market wage rate accruals for Employee workgroups with open agreements and for overall 2024 labor cost increases, including the wage rate increases and agreed-upon work rule changes associated with the recently ratified Pilot contract. The majority of the remaining increase is driven by year-over-year pressure from maintenance expenses. Furthermore, the Company currently expects similar cost pressures throughout the year, driving 2024 CASM-X to increase approximately 5.5 percent to 7 percent, year-over-year. Specifically, the Company expects approximately four to five points of the increase to be driven by higher year-over-year labor costs, and the balance of the increase is driven primarily by higher year-over-year maintenance expenses. Progressing through the year, the Company's focus will be on regaining efficiencies to counter inflationary cost pressures. To this end, the Company plans to end the year with headcount in the range of flat to down on a year-over-year basis. The Company's 2024 plan leverages a set of initiatives, which most importantly, includes better aligning the route network to new demand patterns. The Company expects these initiatives to contribute roughly $1.5 billion in incremental year-over-year pre-tax profits. As a result, the Company expects double-digit year-over-year operating revenue growth and year-over-year operating margin expansion. The Company believes its 2024 plan provides a line of sight to improve profitability year-over-year, earn its cost of capital this year, and provide significant progress toward its long-term goal to exceed its cost of capital. Company Overview The Company ended 2023 with 817 Boeing 737 aircraft, including 223 Boeing 737-8 ("-8") aircraft. During 2023, the Company retired 39 -700 aircraft and took delivery of 86 -8 aircraft. On October 25, 2023, the Company secured an order book with Boeing that is expected to help modernize the Company's fleet with less carbon-intensive aircraft and enable the Company's long-term plan for orderly and measured growth. The Company's order book with Boeing as of January 25, 2024, consists of a total of 495 MAX firm orders (307 -7 aircraft and 188 -8 aircraft) for the years 2024 through 2031 and 199 MAX options (-7s or -8s) for the years 2025 through 2031. The Company is currently planning for approximately 79 MAX aircraft deliveries in 2024, which differs from its contractual order book due to Boeing's continued supply chain challenges and the current status of the -7 certification. The Company plans to retire approximately 49 aircraft, including 45 -700s and four -800s, ending 2024 with roughly 847 aircraft in its fleet. The timing of future deliveries could be affected by any potential or prolonged delays in the manufacturing process or with the -7 certification. The Company retains significant flexibility to manage its fleet size, including opportunities to accelerate fleet modernization efforts if growth opportunities do not materialize. The Company has published its flight schedule through October 2, 2024. The Company continues to focus on operational excellence and reliability, regaining efficiencies, increasing productivity, and returning margins back to historical levels. For the year ended December 31, 2023, the Company added approximately 8,100 Employees, net of attrition. The Company's number of active full-time equivalent Employees increased by 12.2 percent from December 31, 2022 to December 31, 2023, primarily to support the Company's restoration of its flight schedule after emerging from the pandemic, as well as the year-over-year growth in its fleet. The Company has made additional investments to attract 66 and retain talent, including raising the Company's starting hourly pay rates for certain of its workgroups, subject, in each case, to acceptance of such change by the applicable union. During third quarter 2023, the Company announced two new benefits as part of an ongoing commitment to provide Customers with more choices, more flexibility, and more value when they fly Southwest. Customers traveling on Wanna Get Away fares now are able to make same-day standby changes and add standby listings online or on the Southwest app. Previously, only Rapid Rewards Tier Members and Customers traveling on Business Select, Anytime, and Wanna Get Away Plus fares had flexibility to list on a different flight free of charge on their day of scheduled travel. This new offering expands the same-day standby benefit to all Southwest Customers. The Company also began offering free Inflight Internet for Customers who purchase a Business Select fare. During October 2023, the Company announced enhancements to its Rapid Rewards loyalty program to reward loyal Members by making it easier for Customers to earn tier status, awarding A-List Preferred Members with up to two complimentary premium drinks, and, starting in spring of 2024, allowing Customers to pay for flights by using a combination of cash and Rapid Rewards points, starting with as few as 1,000 points. The Company's Board of Directors (the "Board") reinstated and declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.18 per share on December 6, 2022, which was paid in first quarter 2023, and has continued to pay quarterly dividends through 2023. The Company previously suspended the payment of dividends in second quarter 2020 through September 30, 2022, pursuant to payroll funding support agreements with the U.S. Department of the Treasury ("Treasury"). The Company's current quarterly dividend of $0.18 per share, or $0.72 per share annualized, is equivalent to its quarterly dividend prior to the pandemic. During 2023, the Company returned $429 million to Shareholders in dividend payments. On November 2, 2023, the Company announced an offtake agreement with USA BioEnergy, LLC, for up to 680 million gallons of neat sustainable aviation fuel ("SAF"). The Company plans to begin purchasing SAF from USA BioEnergy's facility near Bon Wier, Texas, as early as 2028. Additionally, as part of the offtake agreement, the Company and USA BioEnergy have established a long-term strategic relationship offering the Company the opportunity to purchase up to another projected 180 million gallons of SAF per year from future planned production facilities. As part of its commitment to corporate sustainability, the Company published its 2022 One Report describing the Company's sustainability strategies on May 3, 2023, which include the Company’s fuel conservation and emissions mitigation initiatives and other efforts to minimize greenhouse gas emissions and address other environmental matters such as energy and water conservation, waste minimization, and recycling. The Company also published its Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion ("DEI") Report on May 3, 2023. A companion piece to the One Report, the DEI Report takes a deeper dive into the Company's DEI goals and initiatives and highlights the Company's DEI plans for the future. Information contained in the Southwest One Report and/or the DEI Report is not incorporated by reference into, and does not constitute a part of, this Form 10-K. While the Company believes that the disclosures contained in the Southwest One Report, the DEI Report, and other voluntary disclosures regarding environmental, social, and governance (“ESG”) matters are responsive to various areas of investor interest, the Company believes that certain of these disclosures do not currently address matters that are material in the near term to the Company’s operations, strategy, financial condition, or financial results, although this view may change in the future based on new information that could materially alter the estimates, assumptions, or timelines used to create these disclosures. Given the estimates, assumptions, and timelines used to create the Southwest One Report, the DEI Report, and other voluntary disclosures, the materiality of these disclosures is inherently difficult to assess. 67 2023 Compared with 2022 Operating Revenues Passenger revenues for 2023 increased by $2.2 billion, or 10.4 percent, compared with 2022. On a unit basis, Passenger revenues decreased 3.7 percent, year-over-year. The dollar increase was primarily due to a 14.7 percent increase in capacity, combined with healthy leisure demand and continued yield strength for 2023 versus 2022. For 2023, the year-over-year Passenger revenue yield per ASM decrease was primarily driven by a 3.4 point decrease in Load factor as the capacity growth of 14.7 percent outpaced the growth in Revenue passenger miles of 10.0 percent. Other revenues for 2023 increased by $50 million, or 2.2 percent, compared with 2022. On a dollar basis, the increase was primarily due to additional marketing revenue from Chase Bank USA, N.A., driven by improved retail spend on the Company's co-brand credit cards. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for 2023 increased by $3.1 billion, or 13.5 percent, compared with 2022, and capacity increased 14.7 percent over the same prior year period. Approximately 60 percent of the operating expenses increase was due to higher Salaries, wages, and benefits expense (inclusive of accruals related to anticipated pay raises associated with open collective bargaining agreements) and approximately 10 percent was due to higher Maintenance, materials, and repairs expense. Historically, except for changes in the price of fuel, changes in Operating expenses for airlines have been largely driven by changes in capacity, or ASMs. The following table presents the Company's Operating expenses per ASM for 2023 and 2022, followed by explanations of these changes on a dollar basis. Unless otherwise specified, changes on a per ASM basis were driven by changes in capacity, which increased with the improvement in travel demand and the Company's focus on restoring its network, causing the Company's fixed costs to be spread over significantly more ASMs. Operating expenses per ASM for 2023 decreased by 1.1 percent, compared with 2022. The majority of the year-over-year unit cost decrease was driven by a decrease in the Company's fuel cost per gallon, partially offset by higher salaries, wages, and benefits expense. Operating expenses per ASM for 2023, excluding Fuel and oil expense, profitsharing, and special items (a non-GAAP financial measure), decreased 1.2 percent, year-over-year. See Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and the Reconciliation of Reported Amounts to Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional detail regarding non-GAAP financial measures. Salaries, wages, and benefits expense for 2023 increased by $1.8 billion, or 18.9 percent, compared with 2022. On a per ASM basis, Salaries, wages, and benefits expense for 2023 increased 3.8 percent, compared with 2022. On a dollar basis, approximately 45 percent of the increase was due to step/pay rate increases for certain workgroups, including market wage rate accruals for open collective bargaining agreements (inclusive of $180 million and $354 million on a GAAP basis in additional compensation related to past services negotiated as part of the tentative agreements reached with the Transport Workers Union 556 ("TWU 556") and SWAPA, respectively) and approximately 20 percent of the increase was driven by an increase in capacity and trips flown. See Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and the Reconciliation of Reported Amounts to Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional detail regarding non-GAAP measures. 68 The following table sets forth the Company’s unionized Employee groups with contracts that are currently in negotiations on collective-bargaining agreements: On January 31, 2023, the Company's 50 Facilities Maintenance Technicians, represented by the Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association ("AMFA"), ratified a new four-year collective bargaining agreement with the Company. The newly ratified agreement becomes amendable in November 2027. On February 4, 2023, the Company's more than 470 Dispatchers, represented by the Transportation Workers of America, AFL-CIO, Local 550 ("TWU 550"), ratified a new four-year collective bargaining agreement with the Company. The newly ratified agreement becomes amendable in June 2027. On April 30, 2023, the Company's 12 Meteorologists, represented by TWU 550, ratified a new five-year collective bargaining agreement with the Company. The newly ratified agreement becomes amendable in May 2028. On July 27, 2023, the Company's 2,865 Mechanics & Related Employees, represented by AMFA, voted to ratify a four-year contract extension with the Company. The newly ratified agreement becomes amendable in August 2027. On August 15, 2023, the Company reached a tentative collective-bargaining agreement with TWU 555, which represents the Company's nearly 18,000 Ramp, Operations, Provisioning, and Freight Agents. However, during September 2023, TWU 555 membership voted not to ratify the agreement. The Company will continue to engage in discussions on a new agreement with TWU 555. On October 6, 2023, the Company's more than 480 Material Specialists, represented by IBT, voted to ratify a three-year contract extension with the Company. The newly ratified agreement becomes amendable in October 2026. On October 25, 2023, the Company reached a tentative collective-bargaining agreement with TWU 556, which represents the Company's nearly 20,000 Flight Attendants. However, during December 2023, TWU 556 membership voted not to ratify the agreement. The Company will continue to engage in discussions on a new agreement with TWU 556. On January 22, 2024, the Company's nearly 11,000 Pilots, represented by SWAPA, voted to ratify a five-year contract extension with the Company. The newly ratified agreement becomes amendable in January 2029. Fuel and oil expense for 2023 increased by $242 million, or 4.1 percent, compared with 2022. On a per ASM basis, Fuel and oil expense for 2023 decreased 9.4 percent. On a dollar basis, the increase was primarily attributable to an increase in fuel gallons consumed, partially offset by a decrease in jet fuel prices per gallon. On a per ASM basis, the decrease was primarily due to lower jet fuel prices. The following table provides more information on the Company's economic fuel cost per gallon, including the impact of fuel hedging premium expense and fuel derivative contracts: 69 See Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and the Reconciliation of Reported Amounts to Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional detail regarding non-GAAP financial measures. The Company's 2023 available seat miles per gallon ("fuel efficiency") improved 2.8 percent, year-over-year, due to lower load factors and more -8 aircraft, the Company's most fuel-efficient aircraft, as a percentage of its fleet. The continued deliveries of MAX aircraft are expected to remain critical to the Company's efforts to modernize its fleet, reduce carbon emissions intensity, and achieve its near-term environmental sustainability goals. In addition, the Company is providing its maximum percentage of estimated fuel consumption covered by fuel derivative contracts in the following table: (a) Based on the Company's current available seat mile plans. The Company is currently 60 percent hedged in first quarter 2024, 55 percent hedged in second quarter 2024, and 56 percent hedged in second half 2024. (b) The Company's maximum fuel hedged percentage is calculated using the maximum number of gallons that are covered by derivative contracts divided by the Company's estimate of total fuel gallons to be consumed for each respective period. The Company's maximum number of gallons that are covered by derivative contracts may be at different strike prices and at strike prices materially higher than the current market prices. The volume of gallons covered by derivative contracts that ultimately get exercised in any given period may vary significantly from the volumes used to calculate the Company's maximum fuel hedged percentages, as market prices and the Company's fuel consumption fluctuate. As a result of applying hedge accounting in prior periods, the Company has amounts in Accumulated other comprehensive income ("AOCI") that will be recognized in earnings in future periods when the underlying fuel derivative contracts settle. The following table displays the Company's estimated fair value of remaining fuel derivative contracts (not considering the impact of the cash collateral provided to or received from counterparties - see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information), as well as the deferred amounts in AOCI as of December 31, 2023, and the expected future periods in which these items are expected to settle and/or be recognized in earnings (in millions): The Company's multi-year fuel hedging program continues to provide protection against spikes in energy prices. The Company's current fuel derivative contracts contain a combination of instruments based in West Texas Intermediate and Brent crude oil. The economic fuel price per gallon sensitivities provided in the table below assume the relationship between Brent crude oil and refined products based on market prices as of January 17, 2024. 70 (a) Brent crude oil average market prices as of January 17, 2024, were approximately $77 and $76 per barrel for first quarter 2024 and full year 2024, respectively. (b) Based on the Company's existing fuel derivative contracts and market prices as of January 17, 2024, first quarter and full year 2024 economic fuel costs per gallon are estimated to be in the range of $2.70 to $2.80 and $2.55 to $2.65, respectively. Economic fuel cost projections do not reflect the potential impact of special items because the Company cannot reliably predict or estimate the hedge accounting impact associated with the volatility of the energy markets, or the impact to its financial statements in future periods. Accordingly, the Company believes a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the equivalent GAAP financial measures for projected results is not meaningful or available without unreasonable effort. See Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Maintenance materials and repairs expense for 2023 increased by $336 million, or 39.4 percent, compared with 2022. On a per ASM basis, Maintenance materials and repairs expense increased 20.7 percent, compared with 2022. On a dollar and per ASM basis, approximately 70 percent of the increase was due to an increase in engine shop visits and the remainder of the increase was due to various other engine repairs. The number of engines inducted for planned performance restoration shop visits for the Company’s -700 fleet increased as a result of utilization. Planned shop visits for the -800 fleet increased as the -800 aircraft emerged from their maintenance “honeymoon” period during which the engines have required significantly lower levels of maintenance while in the early phases of their useful lives. Landing fees and airport rentals expense for 2023 increased by $281 million, or 18.6 percent, compared with 2022. On a per ASM basis, Landing fees and airport rentals expense increased 2.9 percent, compared with 2022. On a dollar basis, approximately 45 percent of the increase was largely due to higher airport rental expense throughout the network, associated with both higher rates and additional space leased at airports, and approximately 40 percent of the increase was attributable to higher landing fees, primarily driven both by the increase in trips flown and higher rates charged by airports. Depreciation and amortization expense for 2023 increased by $171 million, or 12.7 percent, compared with 2022. On a per ASM basis, Depreciation and amortization expense decreased by 2.2 percent, compared with 2022. On a dollar basis, approximately 65 percent of the increase was primarily due to the acquisition of 86 -8 aircraft since 2022. The majority of the remainder was due to accelerating the depreciation for certain -700 aircraft planned for early retirement in 2023 and 2024. Other operating expenses for 2023 increased by $264 million, or 7.1 percent, compared with 2022. Included within this line item was aircraft rentals expenses in the amount of $198 million and $195 million for 2023 and 2022, respectively. On a per ASM basis, Other operating expenses decreased 6.4 percent, compared with 2022. On a dollar basis, the increase was due to (i) higher professional fees, driven by an increase in technology projects, (ii) higher personnel expenses, driven by an increase in Crew lodging expenses associated with the increase in capacity and inflationary pressure, and (iii) an increase driven by recording the $107 million DOT settlement in December 71 2023. The majority of the remaining increase was due to various flight-driven expenses. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in costs associated with the Company's December 2022 Operational Disruption, the majority of which were accrued in 2022. Other expenses (income) Interest expense for 2023 decreased by $81 million, or 23.8 percent, compared with 2022, primarily due to various debt repurchases in 2022. Capitalized interest for 2023 decreased by $16 million, or 41.0 percent, compared with 2022, primarily due to a significant amount of assets being placed into service, most notably 86 -8 aircraft being delivered since 2022. Interest income for 2023 increased by $366 million, compared with 2022, primarily due to higher interest rates earned on the Company's cash and short-term investments. Loss on extinguishment of debt for 2023 decreased by $193 million, compared with 2022, primarily due to the partial extinguishment of the Company's Convertible Notes in 2022, compared with none in 2023. Other (gains) losses, net, primarily includes amounts recorded as a result of the Company's deferred compensation and hedging activities. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Company's hedging activities. The following table displays the components of Other (gains) losses, net, for 2023 and 2022: Income Taxes The Company's annual 2023 effective tax rate was 26.5 percent, compared with 25.9 percent in 2022. The year-over-year increase in the tax rate is primarily due to the DOT settlement, which is treated as a disallowed tax deduction in 2023, and higher state taxes. The rate increases were partially offset by the absence of repurchases of the Convertible Notes which resulted in disallowed tax deductions and a higher tax rate in 2022. 2022 Compared with 2021 The Company's comparison of 2022 results to 2021 results is included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, under Part II Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Reconciliation of Reported Amounts to Non-GAAP Financial Measures (excluding special items) (unaudited) (in millions, except per share amounts and per ASM amounts) (a) Represents changes in estimate related to the contract ratification bonus for the Company’s Flight Attendants as part of the tentative agreement reached in October 2023 with TWU 556. The Company began accruing for all of its open labor contracts on April 1, 2022, and this incremental $180 million expense extends the timeframe covered by the ratification bonus to the date the Flight Attendant contract became amendable on November 1, 2018, to compensate for missed wage increases over that time period. The Company’s consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2023 include market rate wage accrual for all workgroups with open collective bargaining agreements. See the Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for further information. (b) Represents changes in estimate related to the contract ratification bonus for the Company’s Pilots as part of the tentative agreement reached in December 2023 with SWAPA. The Company began accruing for all of its open labor contracts on April 1, 2022, and this incremental $354 million expense represents an increase in retroactive pay associated with wage rates for purposes of calculating the ratification bonus agreed to for Pilots for periods prior to 2023. See the Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for further information. (c) See Note 11 to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (d) Tax amounts for each individual special item are calculated at the Company's effective rate for the applicable period and totaled in this line item. 72 Non-GAAP Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) (in millions) (unaudited) (a) Net adjustment related to presumption that all aircraft in fleet are owned (i.e., the impact of eliminating aircraft rent expense and replacing with estimated depreciation expense for those same aircraft). The Company makes this adjustment to enhance comparability to other entities that have different capital structures by utilizing alternative financing decisions. (b) Calculated as an average of the five most recent quarter end balances or remaining obligations. The Net present value of aircraft operating leases represents the assumption that all aircraft in the Company’s fleet are owned, as it reflects the remaining contractual commitments discounted at the Company's estimated incremental borrowing rate as of the time each individual lease was signed. (c) The Equity adjustment in the denominator adjusts for the cumulative impacts, in Accumulated other comprehensive income and Retained earnings, of gains and/or losses that will settle in future periods, including those associated with the Company's fuel hedges. The current period impact of these gains and/or losses is reflected in the Net impact from fuel contracts in the numerator. (d) The GAAP full year tax rate as of December 31, 2023, was 26.5 percent, and the full year Non-GAAP tax rate was 23.5 percent. See Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information. 73 Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures The Company's Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. These GAAP financial statements may include (i) unrealized noncash adjustments and reclassifications, which can be significant, as a result of accounting requirements and elections made under accounting pronouncements relating to derivative instruments and hedging and (ii) other charges and benefits the Company believes are unusual and/or infrequent in nature and thus may make comparisons to its prior or future performance difficult. As a result, the Company also provides financial information in this filing that was not prepared in accordance with GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to the information prepared in accordance with GAAP. The Company provides supplemental non-GAAP financial information (also referred to as "excluding special items"), including results that it refers to as "economic," which the Company's management utilizes to evaluate its ongoing financial performance and the Company believes provides additional insight to investors as supplemental information to its GAAP results. The non-GAAP measures provided that relate to the Company’s performance on an economic fuel cost basis include Fuel and oil expense, non-GAAP; Total operating expenses, non-GAAP; Operating expenses, non-GAAP excluding Fuel and oil expense; Operating expenses, non-GAAP excluding Fuel and oil expense and profitsharing; Operating income, non-GAAP; Other (gains) losses, net, non-GAAP; Income before income taxes, non-GAAP; Provision for income taxes, net, non-GAAP; Net income, non-GAAP; Net income per share, diluted, non-GAAP; and Operating expenses per ASM, non-GAAP, excluding Fuel and oil expense and profitsharing (cents). The Company's economic Fuel and oil expense results differ from GAAP results in that they only include the actual cash settlements from fuel hedge contracts - all reflected within Fuel and oil expense in the period of settlement. Thus, Fuel and oil expense on an economic basis has historically been utilized by the Company, as well as some of the other airlines that utilize fuel hedging, as it reflects the Company’s actual net cash outlays for fuel during the applicable period, inclusive of settled fuel derivative contracts. Any net premium costs paid related to option contracts that are designated as hedges are reflected as a component of Fuel and oil expense, for both GAAP and non-GAAP (including economic) purposes in the period of contract settlement. The Company believes these economic results provide further insight into the impact of the Company's fuel hedges on its operating performance and liquidity since they exclude the unrealized, noncash adjustments and reclassifications that are recorded in GAAP results in accordance with accounting guidance relating to derivative instruments, and they reflect all cash settlements related to fuel derivative contracts within Fuel and oil expense. This enables the Company's management, as well as investors and analysts, to consistently assess the Company's operating performance on a year-over-year or quarter-over-quarter basis after considering all efforts in place to manage fuel expense. However, because these measures are not determined in accordance with GAAP, such measures are susceptible to varying calculations, and not all companies calculate the measures in the same manner. As a result, the aforementioned measures, as presented, may not be directly comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies. Further information on (i) the Company's fuel hedging program, (ii) the requirements of accounting for derivative instruments, and (iii) the causes of hedge ineffectiveness and/or mark-to-market gains or losses from derivative instruments is included in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company’s GAAP results in the applicable periods may include other charges or benefits that are also deemed "special items," that the Company believes make its results difficult to compare to prior periods, anticipated future periods, or industry trends. Financial measures identified as non-GAAP (or as excluding special items) have been adjusted to exclude special items. For the periods presented, in addition to the items discussed above, special items include: 1. Incremental expense associated with the recently ratified Pilot contract and ongoing labor contract negotiations with TWU 556 which represents the Company's Flight Attendants. The change in estimate recognized in 2023 relates to additional compensation for services performed by Employees outside of the applicable fiscal period; 2. Noncash impairment charges, primarily associated with adjustments to the salvage values for previously retired airframes; 74 3. A charge associated with a settlement reached with the DOT as a result of the Company's December 2022 operational disruption; 4. A charge associated with a tentative litigation settlement regarding certain California state meal-and-rest-break regulations for flight attendants; 5. Unrealized mark-to-market adjustment associated with certain available for sale securities; and 6. Losses associated with the partial extinguishment of the Company's Convertible Notes and early prepayment of debt. Such losses are incurred as a result of opportunistic decisions made by the Company to prepay portions of its debt, most of which was incurred during the pandemic in order to provide liquidity during the prolonged downturn in air travel. Because management believes special items can distort the trends associated with the Company’s ongoing performance as an airline, the Company believes that evaluation of its financial performance can be enhanced by a supplemental presentation of results that exclude the impact of special items in order to enhance consistency and comparativeness with results in prior periods that do not include such items and as a basis for evaluating operating results in future periods. The following measures are often provided, excluding special items, and utilized by the Company’s management, analysts, and investors to enhance comparability of year-over-year results, as well as to industry trends: Fuel and oil expense, non-GAAP; Total operating expenses, non-GAAP; Operating expenses, non-GAAP excluding Fuel and oil expense; Operating expenses, non-GAAP excluding Fuel and oil expense and profitsharing; Operating income, non-GAAP; Other (gains) losses, net, non-GAAP; Income before income taxes, non-GAAP; Provision for income taxes, net, non-GAAP; Net income, non-GAAP; Net income per share, diluted, non-GAAP; and Operating expenses per ASM, non-GAAP, excluding Fuel and oil expense and profitsharing (cents). The Company has also provided its calculation of return on invested capital, which is a measure of financial performance used by management to evaluate its investment returns on capital. Return on invested capital is not a substitute for financial results as reported in accordance with GAAP and should not be utilized in place of such GAAP results. Although return on invested capital is not a measure defined by GAAP, it is calculated by the Company, in part, using non-GAAP financial measures. Those non-GAAP financial measures are utilized for the same reasons as those noted above for Net income, non-GAAP and Operating income, non-GAAP. The comparable GAAP measures include charges or benefits that are deemed "special items" that the Company believes make its results difficult to compare to prior periods, anticipated future periods, or industry trends, and the Company’s profitability targets and estimates, both internally and externally, are based on non-GAAP results since "special items" cannot be reliably predicted or estimated. The Company believes non-GAAP return on invested capital is a meaningful measure because it quantifies the Company's effectiveness in generating returns relative to the capital it has invested in its business. Although return on invested capital is commonly used as a measure of capital efficiency, definitions of return on invested capital differ; therefore, the Company is providing an explanation of its calculation for non-GAAP return on invested capital in the accompanying reconciliation in order to allow investors to compare and contrast its calculation to the calculations provided by other companies. 75 Liquidity and Capital Resources The enormous impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the U.S. travel industry created an urgent liquidity crisis for the entire airline industry, including the Company. However, due to the Company's pre-pandemic low balance sheet leverage, large base of unencumbered assets, and investment-grade credit ratings, the Company was able to quickly access additional liquidity during 2020, as Customer cancellations and ticket refunds spiked and sales and revenues dropped while the Company continued to experience significant fixed operating expenses. See Note 2 and Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as the transactions completed and financial assistance obtained from Treasury under payroll support programs. Net cash provided by operating activities for 2023 was $3.2 billion, and net cash provided by operating activities for 2022 was $3.8 billion. Operating cash inflows are historically primarily derived from providing air transportation to Customers. The vast majority of tickets are purchased prior to the day on which travel is provided and, in some cases, several months before the anticipated travel date. Operating cash outflows are related to the recurring expenses of airline operations. The operating cash flows for 2023 were largely impacted by the Company's net income (as adjusted for noncash items), a $29 million increase in Air traffic liability driven by higher ticket sales related to an increase in travel demand, partially offset by a $273 million decrease related to the purchase of fuel derivative instruments, which is included within Other, net operating cash flows in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information), and a $215 million decrease due to the payment of Customer reimbursement expenses in first quarter 2023 related to the December 2022 operational disruption. Operating cash flows for 2022 included a $525 million increase in Air traffic liability driven by increased ticket sales related to an increase in leisure travel demand, a $472 million cash tax refund associated with the 2020 tax year, and a $139 million cash excise tax refund, partially offset by an $81 million decrease related to the purchase of fuel derivative instruments. Net cash provided by operating activities is primarily used to finance capital expenditures, repay debt, and provide working capital. Historically, the Company has also used Net cash provided by operating activities to fund stock repurchases and pay dividends. The Board reinstated and declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.18 per share on December 6, 2022, and has continued to pay quarterly dividends through 2023. The Company has suspended share repurchase activity until further notice. Net cash used in investing activities for 2023 was $2.9 billion, and net cash used in investing activities for 2022 was $3.7 billion. Investing activities in both years included Capital expenditures and changes in the balance of the Company's short-term and noncurrent investments. Capital expenditures were $3.5 billion for 2023, compared with $3.9 billion in the same prior year period, and decreased largely due to a decrease in progress and delivery payments made for current period and future aircraft deliveries during 2023. Capital expenditures during 2023 also included approximately $79 million associated with the Company's purchase of finance leased aircraft, compared to approximately $174 million associated with finance leased aircraft purchased during 2022. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. The Company estimates its 2024 capital spending to be in the range of $3.5 billion to $4.0 billion, which includes approximately $2.2 billion in aircraft capital spending, assuming approximately 79 MAX aircraft deliveries in 2024, and $1.6 billion in non-aircraft capital spending. Including both capital spending and operating expense budgets, the Company currently expects to spend approximately $1.7 billion in 2024 on technology investments, upgrades, and system maintenance. The Company currently estimates its average annual capital spending to be approximately $4 billion through 2027 and will continue to evaluate this level of capital spending based on the Company's performance compared with its long-term financial goals. Net cash used in financing activities for 2023 was $436 million, and net cash used in financing activities for 2022 was $3.0 billion. The Company paid $428 million in cash dividends to Shareholders and repaid $85 million in finance lease obligations during the year ended December 31, 2023. The Company may engage in early debt repurchases from time to time at its discretion; however, any early future repurchases are not included in the Company's current maturities of long-term debt. During 2022, the Company's financing activities included repaying $3.1 billion in debt and finance lease obligations, including the prepayment of $1.3 billion for all of its outstanding 4.75% Notes due 2023, and the extinguishment of $486 million in principal of its Convertible Notes for cash 76 payments totaling $648 million. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Company's purchase of finance leased aircraft, which resulted in the elimination of the Company’s remaining financial lease obligations for these aircraft of $191 million and $53 million in 2022 and 2023, respectively. A discussion of the Company's most significant drivers impacting cash flow for 2021 are included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, under Part II Item 7, Liquidity and Capital Resources. The Company is a "well-known seasoned issuer" and currently has an effective shelf registration statement registering an indeterminate amount of debt and equity securities for future sales. The Company currently intends to use the proceeds from any future securities sales off this shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes. The Company has access to $1.0 billion under its amended and restated revolving credit facility (the "Amended Credit Agreement"). In August 2023, this facility was amended to, among other things, (i) extend the expiration date to August 2028, (ii) release all aircraft and other assets constituting collateral securing loans under the facility, (iii) eliminate the minimum liquidity covenant, (iv) add a Coverage Ratio financial covenant, and (v) amend the covenant requiring that a pool of lien-free specified aircraft and related assets have a minimum aggregate appraised value. There were no amounts outstanding under the Amended Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2023. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Although not the case at December 31, 2023 due to the Company's significant financing activities throughout the early stages of the pandemic, the Company has historically carried a working capital deficit, in which its current liabilities exceed its current assets. This is common within the airline industry and is primarily due to the nature of the Air traffic liability account, which is related to advance ticket sales, unused flight credits available to Customers, and loyalty deferred revenue, which are performance obligations for future Customer flights, do not require future settlement in cash, and are mostly nonrefundable. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. The Company believes it has various options available to meet its capital and operating commitments, including unrestricted cash and short-term investments of $11.5 billion as of December 31, 2023, and anticipated future internally generated funds from operations. The Company continues to have a large base of unencumbered assets with a net book value of approximately $17.3 billion , including $14.5 billion in aircraft value and $2.8 billion in non-aircraft assets such as spare engines, ground equipment, and real estate. In addition, the Company continues to maintain investment-grade credit ratings by all three major credit agencies (Moody's, S&P Global, and Fitch). The following discussion includes various short-term and long-term material cash requirements from known contractual and other obligations, but does not include amounts that are contingent on events or other factors that are uncertain or unknown at this time. Given the Company's current liquidity position, available resources, and prevailing outlook, it expects to be able to fulfill both its short-term and long-term material cash requirements. The amounts disclosed are based on various estimates, including estimates regarding the timing of payments, prevailing interest rates, volumes purchased, the occurrence of certain events and other factors. Accordingly, the actual results may vary materially from the amounts discussed herein. Debt As detailed in Notes 2 and 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, in connection with the major negative impact of COVID-19 on air carriers, the Company received significant financial assistance from Treasury in the form of payroll support, and this assistance had a significant impact on the Company's reported GAAP financial results in 2021. Such impact ended in third quarter 2021, and the Company's 2022 and 2023 results do not reflect the benefit of this payroll support, and its future periods are not expected to benefit from such payroll support. However, future cash flows will be impacted through the portion of payroll support that was in the form of loans that remain outstanding and will have to be repaid to Treasury. 77 See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on the Company's debt and the timing of expected and future principal payments. The Company also has significant future obligations associated with fixed interest payments associated with its debt. As of December 31, 2023, future interest payments associated with its fixed rate debt (excluding interest associated with finance leases) were $239 million in 2024, $198 million in 2025, $166 million in 2026, $114 million in 2027, $56 million in 2028, and $105 million thereafter. The Company's Convertible Notes did not meet the criteria to be converted by holders as of the date of the financial statements, and thus are classified as Long-term debt in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2023. If the provisions were met to allow holders to exercise their conversion option on these instruments, all of the remaining Convertible Notes would be reclassified as a current obligation. Also, the Company has engaged in transactions with certain convertible debt holders to purchase their instruments in private transactions from time to time in cash, and may continue to do so in future periods. The Company considers its prevailing stock price, the trading price of its convertible debt instruments, and its available liquidity in determining how much of these instruments it may attempt to repurchase in such transactions. Leases The Company enters into leases for aircraft, airports and other real property, and other types of equipment in the normal course of business. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Aircraft purchase commitments The Company is required to make cash deposits toward the purchase of aircraft in advance. These deposits are classified as Deposits on flight equipment purchase contracts in the Consolidated Balance Sheet until the aircraft is delivered, at which time deposits previously made are deducted from the final purchase price of aircraft and are reclassified as Flight equipment. See Part I, Item 2 for a complete table of the Company's contractual firm deliveries and options for -7 and -8 aircraft, and Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the financial commitments related to these firm deliveries. Other The Company's other material cash requirements primarily consist of outlays associated with normal operating expenses of the airline, including payroll, fuel, airport costs, etc. While many of these expenses are variable in nature, some of the expenditures can be somewhat fixed in the short-term due to the lead-time involved in publishing the Company's flight schedule in advance and providing for resources to be available to operate those schedules. As a result of the Company's Pilots ratifying a new labor contract in January 2024, the Company is scheduled to pay out contract ratification bonuses to its Pilots in first quarter 2024 totaling approximately $1.35 billion, which includes a contractual $1.28 billion in wages and Non-elective retirement contributions, plus the applicable payroll taxes on such amounts. The Company has a large net deferred tax liability on its Consolidated Balance Sheet. The deferral of income taxes has resulted in a significant benefit to the Company and its liquidity position. Since the Company purchases the majority of the aircraft it acquires, it has been able to utilize accelerated depreciation methods (including bonus depreciation) available under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, in 2023 and in previous years, which has enabled the Company to accelerate cash tax benefits of depreciation. Based on the Company’s scheduled future aircraft deliveries from Boeing and existing tax laws in effect, the Company will continue to accelerate the cash income tax benefits related to aircraft purchases. Due to the Company's net taxable loss incurred in 2020, and a provision within the CARES Act that allowed entities to carry back such 2020 losses to prior periods of up to five years, and claim refunds of federal taxes paid, the Company received a significant cash tax refund of $472 million associated with this taxable loss from the Internal Revenue Service during second quarter 2022. The Company has federal and state operating loss carryforwards, $268 million and $36 million (tax-effected), respectively, to reduce 78 taxable income in future periods. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. The Company has paid in the past, and will continue to pay in the future, cash taxes to the various taxing jurisdictions where it operates. The Company expects to be able to continue to meet such obligations utilizing cash and investments on hand, as well as cash generated from its ongoing operations. 79 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The Company’s significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires the Company’s management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying footnotes. The Company’s estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and changes in the business environment. However, actual results may differ from estimates under different conditions, sometimes materially. Critical accounting policies and estimates are defined as those that both (i) are most important to the portrayal of the Company’s financial condition and results and (ii) require management’s most subjective judgments. The Company’s critical accounting policies and estimates are described below. Revenue Recognition Tickets sold for Passenger air travel are initially deferred as Air traffic liability. Passenger revenue is recognized and Air traffic liability is reduced when the service is provided (i.e., when the flight takes place). Air traffic liability primarily represents tickets sold for future travel dates, flight credits that are expected to be used in the future, and loyalty benefits that are expected to be redeemed in the future. Air traffic liability typically fluctuates throughout the year based on seasonal travel patterns, fare sale activity, and activity associated with the Company’s loyalty program. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about the Company's revenue recognition policies. For air travel on Southwest, the amount of tickets (which includes flight credits—also referred to as partial tickets) that will go unused, referred to as breakage, is estimated and recognized in Passenger revenue once the scheduled flight date has passed, in proportion to the pattern of rights exercised by the Customer, in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification 606, Revenue From Contracts With Customers ("ASC 606"). Estimating the amount of tickets that will ultimately go unused involves some level of subjectivity and judgment. The majority of the Company's tickets sold are nonrefundable, although flight credits created when a Customer cancels or modifies an existing flight itinerary can be applied towards the purchase of future travel. Unused flight credits are the primary source of breakage. Breakage estimates are based on historical experience over many years. Fully refundable tickets rarely go unused. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, for all Customer flight credits created or scheduled to expire between March 1 and September 7, 2020 associated with flight cancellations, the Company initially extended the expiration date to September 7, 2022. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding these extended flight credits. Since the Company did not have historical data to enable it to accurately estimate the pattern of usage of these extended credits, these credits have been classified as a current liability throughout their history. Subsequently, on July 28, 2022, the Company modified its policy and announced that all unexpired flight credits as of that date, including these extended flight credits, will no longer have an expiration date and thus will be able to be redeemed by Customers indefinitely. This change in policy was considered a contract modification under ASC 606 and the Company accounted for such change prospectively in third quarter 2022. The Company’s balance of existing Customer flight credits as of the modification date was approximately $1.9 billion, including the extended flight credits that had been set to expire on September 7, 2022. As a result of changes in observed Customer travel habits and behaviors during 2021 and 2022, the Company increased its estimates of “normal” Customer flight credits that are expected to go unused, as Customer redemptions of these "normal" credits had been at a slower rate than the Company’s historical data for similar credits in periods prior to the COVID-19 pandemic. Although the Company continues to believe a portion of Customer flight credits will go unused following the Company's change in policy, including a portion of flight credits issued after July 28, 2022, the Company expects its prospective breakage rate associated with such flight credits to be at or slightly lower than historical pre-pandemic levels due to the fact that such flight credits no longer have an expiration date. Although the Company's estimated breakage rate was consistent throughout 2023, a one percentage point change in the amount of breakage, as a factor of total flight credits issued, would have resulted in a change of Passenger 80 revenues of approximately $26 million. The Company also does not currently anticipate any changes to its estimated breakage rate for 2024. Observed Customer behavior that differs from historical experience can cause actual ticket breakage to differ significantly from estimates. Assumptions about Customer behavior are reviewed frequently and corresponding adjustments are made to breakage estimates, as needed, when observed behaviors differ from historical experience. Assumptions about Customer behavior can be impacted by several factors including, but not limited to: fare increases, fare sales, changes to the Company's ticketing policies, changes to the Company’s refund, exchange and unused flight credit policies, seat availability, and economic factors. The Company’s estimation techniques have been consistently applied from year to year; however, as with any estimates, actual ticket breakage may vary from estimated amounts. Fair Value Measurements and Financial Derivative Instruments The Company utilizes unobservable (Level 3) inputs in determining the fair value of certain assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2023, these consisted of its fuel derivative option contracts, which were an asset of $223 million. The Company utilizes financial derivative instruments primarily to manage its risk associated with changing jet fuel prices. See "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk" for more information on these risk management activities, Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Company’s fuel hedging program and financial derivative instruments, and Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about fair value measurements. All derivatives are required to be reflected at fair value and recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. As of December 31, 2023, the Company was a party to over 200 separate financial derivative instruments related to its fuel hedging program for future periods. Changes in the fair values of these instruments can vary dramatically based on changes in the underlying commodity prices. For example, during 2023, market "spot" prices for Brent crude oil peaked at a high average daily price of approximately $97 per barrel and hit a low average daily price of approximately $72 per barrel. During 2022, market spot prices ranged from a high average daily price of approximately $128 per barrel to a low average daily price of approximately $76 per barrel. Market price changes can be driven by factors such as supply and demand, inventory levels, weather events, refinery capacity, political agendas, the value of the U.S. dollar, geopolitical events, the extent of the COVID-19 pandemic, and general economic conditions, among other items. Historically, the financial derivative instruments utilized by the Company primarily are a combination of collars, purchased call options, call spreads, put spreads, and fixed price swap agreements. The Company enters into financial derivative instruments with third party institutions in "over-the-counter" markets. Since the majority of the Company’s financial derivative instruments are not traded on a market exchange, the Company estimates their fair values. Depending on the type of instrument, the values are determined by the use of present value methods or standard option value models with assumptions about commodity prices based on those observed in underlying markets. The Company determines the fair value of fuel derivative option contracts utilizing an option pricing model based on inputs that are either readily available in public markets, can be derived from information available in publicly quoted markets, or are quoted by its counterparties. In situations where the Company obtains inputs via quotes from its counterparties, it verifies the reasonableness of these quotes via similar quotes from another counterparty as of each date for which financial statements are prepared. The Company has consistently applied these valuation techniques in all periods presented and believes it has obtained the most accurate information available for the types of derivative contracts it holds. Due to the fact that certain inputs used in determining the estimated fair value of its option contracts are considered unobservable (primarily implied volatility), the Company has categorized these option contracts as Level 3. Although implied volatility is not directly observable, it is derived primarily from changes in market prices, which are observable. Based on the Company’s portfolio of option contracts as of December 31, 2023, a 10 percent change in implied volatility, holding all other factors constant, would have resulted in a change in the fair value of this portfolio of less than $34 million. 81 Fair values for financial derivative instruments are estimated prior to the time that the financial derivative instruments settle. However, once settlement of the financial derivative instruments occurs and the hedged jet fuel is purchased and consumed, all values and prices are known and are recognized in the financial statements. Although the Company continues to use a prospective assessment to determine that commodities continue to qualify for hedge accounting in specific locations where the Company hedges, there are no assurances that these commodities will continue to qualify in the future. This is due to the fact that future price changes in these refined products may not be consistent with historical price changes. Increased volatility in these commodity markets for an extended period of time, especially if such volatility were to worsen, could cause the Company to lose hedge accounting altogether for the commodities used in its fuel hedging program. Further, should the anticipated fuel purchases covered by the Company's fuel hedges no longer be probable of occurring, the Company would discontinue hedge accounting. The loss of hedge accounting would create further volatility in the Company’s GAAP financial results. As discussed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, any changes in fair value of cash flow derivatives designated as hedges are offset within AOCI until the period in which the expected future cash flow impacts earnings. Any changes in the fair value of fuel derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are reflected in earnings within Other (gains) losses, net, in the period of the change. Because the Company has extensive historical experience in valuing the derivative instruments it holds, and such experience is continually evaluated against its counterparties each period when such instruments expire and are settled for cash, the Company believes it is unlikely that an independent third party would value the Company’s derivative contracts at a significantly different amount than what is reflected in the Company’s financial statements. In addition, the Company also has bilateral credit provisions in some of its counterparty agreements, which provide for parties (or the Company) to provide cash collateral when the fair value of fuel derivatives with a single party exceeds certain threshold levels. Since this cash collateral is based on the estimated fair value of the Company’s outstanding fuel derivative contracts, this provides further validation to the Company’s estimate of fair values. Loyalty Accounting The Company utilizes estimates in the recognition of revenues and liabilities associated with its loyalty program. These estimates primarily include the liability associated with Rapid Rewards loyalty member ("Member") account balances that are expected to be redeemed for travel or other products at a future date. Loyalty account balances include points earned through flights taken, points sold to Customers, or points earned through business partners participating in the loyalty program. Under the Southwest Rapid Rewards loyalty program, Members earn points for every dollar spent on Southwest base fares. The amount of points earned under the program is based on the fare amount and fare type, with higher fare types (e.g., Business Select) earning more points than lower fare types (e.g., Wanna Get Away). Each fare type is associated with a points earning multiplier, and points for flights are calculated by multiplying the fare amount for the flight by the fare type multiplier. Likewise, the amount of points required to be redeemed for a flight can differ based on the fare type purchased. Under the program, (i) Members are able to redeem their points for every available seat, every day, on every flight, with no blackout dates; and (ii) points do not expire. In addition, Members are able to redeem their points for items other than travel on Southwest Airlines, such as international flights on other airlines, cruises, hotel stays, rental cars, gift cards, event tickets, and more. In addition to earning points for revenue flights and qualifying purchases with Rapid Rewards Partners, Members also have the ability to purchase, gift, and transfer points, as well as the ability to donate points to selected charities. The Company utilizes the deferred revenue method of accounting for points earned through flights taken in its loyalty program. The Company also sells points and related services to business partners participating in the loyalty program. Liabilities are recorded for the relative standalone selling price of the Rapid Rewards points which are awarded each period. The liabilities recorded represent the total number of points expected to be redeemed by Members, regardless of whether the Members may have enough to qualify for a full travel award. As of December 31, 2023, the loyalty liabilities were approximately $4.9 billion, including $3.2 billion classified within Air traffic liability and $1.7 billion classified as Air traffic liability – noncurrent. 82 In order to determine the value of each loyalty point, certain assumptions must be made at the time of measurement, which include an allocation of passenger revenue between the flight and loyalty points earned by passengers, and the fair value of Rapid Rewards points, which are generally based on their redemption value to the Customer. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on determining the estimated fair value of each loyalty point. The majority of the points sold to business partners are through the Southwest co-branded credit card agreement ("Agreement") with Chase Bank USA, N.A. Consideration received as part of this Agreement is subject to ASC 606. The most recent instance in which the Agreement was amended was in fourth quarter 2021. The Agreement has the following multiple elements: travel points to be awarded, use of the Southwest Airlines’ brand and access to Rapid Rewards Member lists, advertising elements, and the Company’s resource team. These elements are combined into two performance obligations, transportation and marketing, and consideration from the Agreement is allocated based on the relative selling price of each performance obligation. Significant management judgment was used to estimate the selling price of each of the performance obligations in the Agreement at inception, including each time in which the Agreement has been materially amended. The objective is to determine the price at which the Company would transact a sale if the product or service was sold on a stand-alone basis. The Company determines the best estimate of selling price by considering multiple inputs and methods including, but not limited to, the estimated selling price of comparable travel, discounted cash flows, brand value, published selling prices, number of points awarded, and the number of points redeemed. The Company estimates the selling prices and volumes over the term of the Agreement in order to determine the allocation of proceeds to each of the multiple performance obligations. The Company records revenue related to air transportation when the transportation is delivered and revenue related to marketing elements when the performance obligation is satisfied. A one percent increase or decrease in the Company's estimate of the standalone selling prices, implemented as of January 1, 2023, causing a change to the allocation of proceeds to air transportation would not have had a material impact on the Company's Operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2023. Under its current program, Southwest estimates the portion of loyalty points that will not be redeemed. In estimating the breakage, the Company takes into account the Member’s past behavior, as well as several factors related to the Member’s account that are expected to be indicative of the likelihood of future point redemption. These factors are typically representative of a Member’s level of engagement in the loyalty program. They include, but are not limited to, tenure with the program, points accrued in the program, and points redeemed in the program. The Company believes it has obtained sufficient historical behavioral data to develop a predictive statistical model to analyze the amount of breakage expected for all loyalty points. The Company updates this model at least annually, and applies the new breakage rates effective October 1st each year, or more frequently if required by changes in the business. Changes in the breakage rates applied annually in recent years have not had a material impact on Passenger revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2023, based on actual redemptions of points sold to business partners and earned through flights, a hypothetical one percentage point change in the estimated breakage rate would have resulted in a change to Passenger revenue of approximately $235 million (an increase in breakage would have resulted in an increase in revenue and a decrease in breakage would have resulted in a decrease in revenue). Given that Member behavior may fluctuate over time, the Company expects the current estimates may change in future periods. However, the Company believes its current estimates are reasonable given current facts and circumstances. 83