********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in connection with evaluating the Company.  Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  Certain statements in "Risk Factors" are forward-looking statements. See "Item 7 — Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements." Summary of Risk Factors The following is a summary of the principal risks that could adversely affect our business, operations and financial results. Risks Related to Our Business • COVID-19 has materially adversely affected the number of visitors to our facilities and has disrupted our operations. • Our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer and corporate spending as a result of downturns in the economy. • Natural or man-made disasters, an outbreak of highly infectious or contagious disease, political instability, civil unrest, terrorist activity or war could materially adversely affect the number of visitors to our facilities and disrupt our operations. • Our business is sensitive to the willingness of our customers to travel. • We are subject to extensive regulations that govern our operations in any jurisdiction where we operate. • Certain local gaming laws apply to our gaming activities and associations in jurisdictions where we operate or plan to operate. • We depend primarily on our properties in two markets for all of our cash flow, and because we are a parent company our primary source of cash is and will be distributions from our subsidiaries. • Our debt instruments, current debt service obligations and substantial indebtedness may restrict our current and future operations. • We are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. • We extend credit to a portion of our customers and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit players. • Win rates for our gaming operations depend on a variety of factors, some beyond our control, and the winnings of our gaming customers could exceed our casino winnings. 22 • We face the risk of fraud and cheating. • Our operations face significant competition, which may increase in the future. • Our attempts to expand our business into new markets and new ventures, including through acquisitions or strategic transactions, may not be successful. • Our loan receivable is subject to certain risks, which could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Associated with Our International Operations • There are significant risks associated with our current and planned construction projects. • Our Macao Concession and Singapore license can be terminated under certain circumstances without compensation to us. • The number of visitors to Macao, particularly visitors from mainland China, may decline or travel to Macao may be disrupted. • The Macao and Singapore governments could grant additional rights to conduct gaming in the future and increase competition we face. • Conducting business in Macao and Singapore has certain political and economic risks. • Our tax arrangements with the Macao government may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. • We are subject to limitations on the transfers of cash to and from our subsidiaries, limitations of the pataca exchange markets and restrictions on the export of the renminbi. • VML may have financial and other obligations to foreign workers managed by its contractors under government labor quotas. Risks Related to Doing Business in China • Our business, financial condition and results of operations and/or the value of our securities or our ability to offer or continue to offer securities to investors may be materially and adversely affected to the extent the laws and regulations of mainland China become applicable to our operations in Macao and Hong Kong or economic, political and legal developments in Macao adversely affect our Macao operations. • Our securities may be prohibited from being traded in the U.S. securities market and our investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspections or investigations if the PCAOB were not able to conduct full inspections or investigations of our auditor. Risks Related to Stock Ownership and Stockholder Matters • The interests of our principal stockholders in our business may be different from yours. • Conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of SCL. Human Capital Related Risk Factors • We depend on the continued services of key officers. • We compete for limited management and labor resources in Macao and Singapore, and policies of those governments may also affect our ability to employ imported managers or labor. • Labor actions and other labor problems could negatively impact our operations. General Risk Factors • We may fail to establish and protect our IP rights and could be subject to claims of IP infringement. • The licensing of our trademarks to third parties could result in reputational harm for us. • Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer and our insurance costs may increase in the future. 23 • We are subject to changes in tax laws and regulations. • Failure to maintain the integrity of our information and information systems or comply with applicable privacy and cybersecurity requirements and regulations could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business. • Because we own real property, we are subject to extensive environmental regulation. • We are subject to risks from litigation, investigations, enforcement actions and other disputes. • We could be negatively impacted by environmental, social and governance and sustainability matters. Risks Related to Our Business COVID-19 has materially adversely affected the number of visitors to our facilities and has disrupted our operations. COVID-19 has materially adversely affected the number of visitors to our facilities and disrupted our operations, and we expect that our business and operations will continue to be adversely impacted.  While our properties are fully open as of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the pace of recovery from the COVID-19 Pandemic has varied, and accordingly COVID-19 continues to have a significant impact on our operations and on our projects under development, including the MBS Expansion Project.  The extent to which the adverse impact on our business will be mitigated depends on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence.  Such developments include the following: • the extent of any resurgence or variants of COVID-19 or any other infectious diseases in areas where we operate or where our customers are located; • the manner in which our customers, suppliers and other third parties respond to COVID-19, including the perception of safety and health measures we implement; • new information that may emerge concerning the severity of COVID-19, and the actions to contain or treat it, especially in areas where we operate; • general, local or national economic conditions; • local or national rules, regulations or policies which may restrict travel and operating hours or impose other operating restrictions; • limitations or restrictions on domestic or international travel or reluctance to travel to our properties; and • consumer confidence. Accordingly, we cannot reasonably estimate the extent to which COVID-19 will further impact our business and financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer and corporate spending as a result of downturns in the economy. Consumer demand for hotel/casino resorts, trade shows and conventions and for the type of luxury amenities we offer is particularly sensitive to downturns in the economy and the corresponding impact on discretionary spending.  Changes in discretionary consumer spending or corporate spending on conventions and business travel could be driven by many factors, such as: perceived or actual general economic conditions; fear of exposure to a widespread health epidemic, such as the COVID-19 Pandemic; any weaknesses in the job or housing market; credit market disruptions; high energy, fuel and food costs; the increased cost of travel; the potential for bank failures; perceived or actual disposable consumer income and wealth; fears of recession and changes in consumer confidence in the economy; or fear of war, political instability, civil unrest or future acts of terrorism.  These factors could reduce consumer and corporate demand for the luxury amenities and leisure and business activities we offer, thus imposing additional limits on pricing and harming our operations. 24 Natural or man-made disasters, an outbreak of highly infectious or contagious disease, political instability, civil unrest, terrorist activity or war could materially adversely affect the number of visitors to our facilities and disrupt our operations. So-called "Acts of God," such as typhoons and rainstorms, particularly in Macao, and other natural disasters, man-made disasters, outbreaks of highly infectious or contagious diseases, political instability, civil unrest, terrorist activity or war may result, and in the case of the COVID-19 Pandemic, have resulted, in decreases in travel to and from, and economic activity in, areas in which we operate, and may adversely affect, and the COVID-19 Pandemic has adversely affected, the number of visitors to our properties.  We also face potential risks associated with the physical effects of climate change, which may include more frequent or severe storms, typhoons, flooding, rising sea levels and shortages of water.  To the extent climate change causes additional changes in weather patterns, our properties along the coast in Macao could be subject to an increase in the number and severity of typhoons and coastal and river flooding could cause damage to these properties, and all our properties could be subject to increased precipitation levels and heat stress.  Any of these events may disrupt our ability to staff our business adequately, could generally disrupt our operations, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  Although we have insurance coverage with respect to some of these events, we cannot assure you any such coverage will provide any coverage or be sufficient to indemnify us fully against all direct and indirect costs, including any loss of business that could result from substantial damage to, or partial or complete destruction of, any of our properties. Our business is sensitive to the willingness of our customers to travel. We are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel. Only a portion of our business is and will be generated by local residents.  Most of our customers travel to reach our Macao and Singapore properties. Infectious diseases may severely disrupt, and in the case of the COVID-19 Pandemic, have severely disrupted, domestic and international travel, which would result in a decrease in customer visits to Macao and Singapore, including our properties.  Regional political events, acts of terrorism or civil unrest, including those resulting in travelers perceiving areas as unstable or an unwillingness of governments to grant visas, regional conflicts or an outbreak of hostilities or war could have a similar effect on domestic and international travel.  Management cannot predict the extent to which disruptions from these types of events in air or other forms of travel would have on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to extensive regulations that govern our operations in any jurisdiction where we operate. We are required to obtain and maintain licenses from various jurisdictions in order to operate certain aspects of our business, and we are subject to extensive background investigations and suitability standards in our gaming business.  We also will become subject to regulation in any other jurisdiction where we choose to operate in the future.  There can be no assurance we will be able to obtain new licenses or renew any of our existing licenses, or if such licenses are obtained, such licenses will not be conditioned, suspended or revoked; and the loss, denial or non-renewal of any of our licenses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  See “Item 1 — Business — Regulation and Licensing” for further description of regulations that govern our operations. We are subject to anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA"), which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Any violation of the FCPA could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering regulations in Singapore and Macao, as well as regulations set forth by the gaming authorities in the areas in which we operate.  Any such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted.  Any violation of anti-money laundering laws or regulations, or any accusations of money laundering or regulatory investigations into possible money laundering activities, by any of our properties, employees or customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 25 Certain local gaming laws apply to our gaming activities and associations in jurisdictions where we operate or plan to operate. We are required to comply with certain reporting requirements concerning our current and proposed gaming activities and associations, including in Macao, Singapore and other jurisdictions.  We also may be subject to disciplinary action by the Nevada Commission if we fail to comply with applicable Nevada gaming laws for such time until the Nevada Gaming Authorities have concluded the final closing audit of the books and records related to the Las Vegas Operations, as further described in “Item 1 — Business — Regulation and Licensing — State of Nevada.” The gaming authorities in other jurisdictions where we operate or plan to operate, including in Macao and Singapore, exercise similar powers for purposes of assessing suitability in relation to our activities in other gaming jurisdictions where we do business.  Any gaming laws and regulations that apply to us could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted, and we may incur significant costs to comply, or may be unable to comply, with any new or modified gaming laws and regulations. We depend primarily on our properties in two markets for all of our cash flow, and because we are a parent company our primary source of cash is and will be distributions from our subsidiaries. We are primarily dependent upon our Asia properties for all of our cash. Given our operations are conducted primarily at properties in Macao and Singapore and a large portion of our planned development is in Macao and Singapore, we are subject to greater risk than if we were more diversified. Additionally, because we are a parent company with limited business operations of our own, our main asset is the capital stock of our subsidiaries.  We conduct most of our business operations through our direct and indirect subsidiaries.  Accordingly, our primary sources of cash are dividends and distributions with respect to our ownership interests in our subsidiaries derived from the earnings and cash flow generated by our operating properties.  Our subsidiaries' payments to us will be contingent upon their earnings and upon other business considerations, which may be impacted by the factors described above.  For example, due to the impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic, we suspended our quarterly dividend program beginning in April 2020, and SCL suspended its dividend payments after paying its interim dividend for 2019 on February 21, 2020. In addition, our Macao and Singapore credit agreements, under certain circumstances, may limit or prohibit certain payments of dividends or other distributions to us.  We expect future debt instruments for the financing of future developments may contain similar restrictions. Our debt instruments, current debt service obligations and substantial indebtedness may restrict our current and future operations. Our current debt service obligations contain, or any future debt service obligations and instruments may contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to: • incur additional debt, including providing guarantees or credit support; • incur liens securing indebtedness or other obligations; • dispose of certain assets; • make certain acquisitions; • pay dividends or make distributions and make other restricted payments, such as purchasing equity interests, repurchasing junior indebtedness or making investments in third parties; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • engage in any new businesses; • issue preferred stock; and • enter into transactions with our stockholders and our affiliates. In addition, our Macao, Singapore and U.S. credit agreements contain various financial covenants. See "Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Note 12 — Long-Term Debt" for further description of these covenants. 26 As of December 31, 2022, we had $15.98 billion of long-term debt outstanding, net of original issue discount and deferred offering costs (excluding those costs related to our revolving facilities).  This indebtedness could have important consequences to us. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt service obligations; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital needs, capital expenditures, development projects, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; • require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the funds available for our operations and development projects; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • subject us to higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates. Subject to applicable laws, including gaming laws, and certain agreed upon exceptions, our Singapore debt is secured by liens on substantially all of the assets of our Singapore operations. Our ability to timely refinance and replace our indebtedness in the future will depend upon general economic and credit market conditions, potential approval required by local government regulators, adequate liquidity in the global credit markets, the particular circumstances of the gaming industry, and prevalent regulations and our cash flow and operations, in each case as evaluated at the time of such potential refinancing or replacement.  We have a principal amount of $2.03 billion, $1.90 billion, $3.34 billion, $3.51 billion and $700 million in long-term debt maturing during the years ending December 31, 2023, 2024, 2025, 2026 and 2027, respectively.  If we are unable to refinance or generate sufficient cash flow from operations to repay our indebtedness on a timely basis, we might be forced to seek alternate forms of financing, dispose of certain assets or minimize capital expenditures and other investments, or not make dividend payments.  There is no assurance any of these alternatives would be available to us, if at all, on satisfactory terms, on terms that would not be disadvantageous to us, or on terms that would not require us to breach the terms and conditions of our existing or future debt agreements. We may attempt to arrange additional financing to fund the remainder of our planned, and any future, development projects.  If we are required to raise additional capital in the future, our access to and cost of financing will depend on, among other things, global economic conditions, conditions in the global financing markets, the availability of sufficient amounts of financing, our prospects and our credit ratings.  If our credit ratings were to be downgraded, or general market conditions were to ascribe higher risk to our rating levels, our industry, or us, our access to capital and the cost of any debt financing would be further negatively impacted.  In addition, the terms of future debt agreements could require higher costs, include more restrictive covenants, or require incremental collateral, which may further restrict our business operations or be unavailable due to our covenant restrictions then in effect.  There is no guarantee that debt financings will be available in the future to fund our obligations, or that they will be available on terms consistent with our expectations.  Our current debt service obligations contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, and our Macao, Singapore and U.S. credit agreements contain various financial covenants.  SCL and LVSC have each entered into a waiver and amendment request letter with its respective lenders to waive certain of each of its financial covenants through July 31, 2023 for SCL and December 31, 2022 for LVSC.  On January 30, 2023, LVSC entered into Amendment No. 4 (the “Fourth Amendment”) with lenders to the LVSC Revolving Credit Agreement.  Pursuant to the Fourth Amendment, the existing LVSC Revolving Credit Agreement was amended to, among other things, determine consolidated adjusted EBITDA on a year-to-date annualized basis during the period commencing on the effective date and ending on and including December 31, 2023. 27 We are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We record transactions in the functional currencies of our reporting entities. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we translate revenues and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period, which subjects us to foreign currency translation risks.  The strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the functional currencies of our foreign operations could have an adverse effect on our U.S. dollar financial results. We are a parent company whose primary source of cash is distributions from our subsidiaries.  Fluctuations in the U.S. dollar/SGD exchange rate, the U.S. dollar/Macao pataca exchange rate and/or the U.S. dollar/Hong Kong Dollar ("HKD") exchange rate could have a material adverse effect on the amount of dividends and distributions from our Singapore and Macao operations. We extend credit to a portion of our customers and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit players. We conduct our gaming activities on a credit and cash basis.  Any such credit we extend is unsecured.  Table games players typically are extended more credit than slot players, and high-stakes players typically are extended more credit than players who tend to wager lesser amounts. During the year ended December 31, 2022, approximately 9.8% and 15.8% of our table games drop at our Macao properties and Marina Bay Sands, respectively, was from credit-based wagering.  We extend credit to those customers whose level of play and financial resources warrant, in the opinion of management, an extension of credit.  These large receivables could have a significant impact on our results of operations if deemed uncollectible. While gaming debts are evidenced by a credit instrument, including what is commonly referred to as a "marker," certain jurisdictions around the world, including jurisdictions our gaming customers may come from, may determine, or have determined, enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy.  Although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the U.S. of foreign debtors may be reached to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from courts in the U.S. and elsewhere are not binding in the courts of many foreign nations. In particular, we expect our Macao operations will be able to enforce gaming debts only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including Macao.  To the extent our Macao gaming customers are from other jurisdictions, our Macao operations may not have access to a forum in which it will be possible to collect all gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and our Macao operations may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts.  Moreover, under applicable law, our Macao operations remain obligated to pay taxes on uncollectible winnings from customers. It is also possible our Singapore operations may not be able to collect gaming debts because, among other reasons, courts of certain jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts.  To the extent our Singapore gaming customers' assets are situated in such jurisdictions, our Singapore operations may not be able to take enforcement action against such assets to facilitate collection of gaming receivables. Even where gaming debts are enforceable, they may not be collectible.  Our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Win rates for our gaming operations depend on a variety of factors, some beyond our control, and the winnings of our gaming customers could exceed our casino winnings. The gaming industry is characterized by an element of chance.  In addition to the element of chance, win rates are also affected by other factors, including players' skill and experience, the mix of games played, the financial resources of players, the spread of table limits, the volume of bets played and the amount of time played.  Our gaming profits are mainly derived from the difference between our casino winnings and the casino winnings of our gaming customers.  Since there is an inherent element of chance in the gaming industry, we do not have full control over our winnings or the winnings of our gaming customers.  If the winnings of our gaming customers exceed our winnings, we may record a loss from our gaming operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 28 We face the risk of fraud and cheating. Our gaming customers may attempt or commit fraud or cheat in order to increase winnings.  Acts of fraud or cheating could involve the use of counterfeit chips or other tactics, possibly in collusion with our employees. Internal acts of cheating could also be conducted by employees through collusion with dealers, surveillance staff, floor managers or other casino or gaming area staff.  Failure to discover such acts or schemes in a timely manner could result in losses in our gaming operations.  In addition, negative publicity related to such schemes could have an adverse effect on our reputation, potentially causing a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our operations face significant competition, which may increase in the future. The hotel, resort and casino businesses in Macao and Singapore are highly competitive.  Our Macao properties compete with numerous other casinos located within Macao.  Additional Macao facilities announced by our competitors and the increasing capacity of hotel rooms in Macao could add to the competitive dynamic of the market. Our Macao and Singapore operations will also compete to some extent with casinos located elsewhere in Asia, including South Korea, Malaysia, Philippines, Australia, Cambodia and elsewhere in the world, including Las Vegas, as well as online gaming and cruise ships that offer gaming.  Our operations also face increased competition from new developments in Malaysia, Australia and South Korea.  In addition, certain countries have legalized, and others may in the future legalize, casino gaming, including Japan, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam. The proliferation of gaming venues and gaming activities, such as online gaming, as well as renovations and expansions by our competitors, and their ability to attract customers away from our properties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our attempts to expand our business into new markets and new ventures, including through acquisitions or strategic transactions, may not be successful. We may opportunistically seek to expand our business through, among other things, expansion into new geographies or new ventures complementary to our current operations.  These attempts to expand our business could increase the complexity of our business, require significant levels of investment and strain our management, personnel, operations and systems.  In addition, our attempts to expand into new geographies could pose additional challenges given our limited operational experience in other jurisdictions.  In order to facilitate such expansion, we may engage in strategic and complementary acquisitions and other transactions or investments involving other integrated resorts, hospitality or gaming brands, businesses, properties or other assets, either on our own or in partnership with others.  These items are subject to challenges and risks that could affect our business, including: our incurrence of significant transaction costs in connection with a pending transaction or investment, regardless of whether it is completed; the restrictions on and obligations with respect to our business that may exist in connection with the pending transaction or investment; fluctuations in our market value, including the depreciation in our market value if the pending transaction or investment is not completed or the failure of the transaction or investment, even if completed, to increase our market value; and failure to integrate acquired businesses successfully or achieve the anticipated benefits or synergies of the transaction.  There can be no assurance that these business expansion efforts will develop as anticipated or that we will succeed, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investments, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our loan receivable is subject to certain risks, which could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In connection with closing of the Las Vegas Sale, we entered into a seller financing loan agreement, which provides for a six-year senior secured term loan with a principal amount of $1.17 billion as of December 31, 2022.  If this loan were to become impaired and could not be collected, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected for the amount of uncollected, or deemed uncollectible, principal and interest. 29 Risks Associated with Our International Operations There are significant risks associated with our current and planned construction projects. Our development projects and any other construction projects we undertake will entail significant risks.  Construction activity requires us to obtain qualified contractors and subcontractors, the availability of which may be uncertain.  Construction projects are subject to cost overruns and delays caused by events outside of our control or, in certain cases, our contractors' control, such as shortages of materials or skilled labor, unforeseen engineering, environmental and/or geological problems, work stoppages, weather interference, unanticipated cost increases and unavailability of construction materials or equipment.  Construction, equipment or staffing problems or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite materials, licenses, permits, allocations and authorizations from governmental or regulatory authorities could increase the total cost, delay, jeopardize, prevent the construction or opening of our projects, or otherwise affect the design and features.  Construction contractors or counterparties for our current projects may be required to bear certain cost overruns for which they are contractually liable, and if such counterparties are unable to meet their obligations, we may incur increased costs for such developments.  For example, we are obligated to commence certain construction projects in Singapore under the Second Development Agreement by April 2023, which we do not expect to be able to timely commence.  We are in discussions with the Singapore government on the duration of the timeline extension for commencement and completion of the expansion of Marina Bay Sands to fulfill our obligations under the Second Development Agreement.  If such extension is not obtained, we will be in breach of our obligations under the Second Development Agreement.  In addition, the number of ongoing projects and their locations throughout the world present unique challenges and risks to our management structure.  If our management is unable to manage successfully our worldwide construction projects, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The anticipated costs and completion dates for our current and planned projects are based on budgets, designs, development and construction documents and schedule estimates are prepared with the assistance of architects and other construction development consultants and are subject to change as the design, development and construction documents are finalized and as actual construction work is performed.  A failure to complete our projects on budget or on schedule may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our Macao Concession and Singapore license can be terminated under certain circumstances without compensation to us. Although we were recently granted in December 2022 a new 10-year Concession to operate casino games of chance in Macao, the Macao government has the right to unilaterally terminate our Concession in the event of VML's serious non-compliance with its basic obligations under the Concession and applicable Macao laws.  Upon termination of our Concession, the casinos and gaming-related equipment, for which use was temporarily transferred by the Macao government to VML, would automatically be transferred back to the Macao government without compensation to us and we would cease to generate any revenues from these operations.  The loss of our Concession would prohibit us from conducting gaming operations in Macao, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The development agreements between MBS and the STB contains events of default that could permit the STB to terminate the agreement without compensation to us.  If the development agreements are terminated, we could lose our right to operate the Marina Bay Sands and our investment in Marina Bay Sands could be lost. The number of visitors to Macao, particularly visitors from mainland China, may decline or travel to Macao may be disrupted. Our VIP and mass market gaming customers typically come from nearby destinations in Asia, including mainland China, Hong Kong, South Korea and Japan. Increasingly, a significant number of gaming customers come to our casinos from mainland China.  Slowdown in economic growth or changes of China's current restrictions on travel and currency movements have disrupted, and could further disrupt, the number of visitors from mainland China to our casinos in Macao as well as the amounts they are willing and able to spend while at our properties. Policies and measures adopted from time to time by the Chinese government include restrictions imposed on exit visas granted to residents of mainland China for travel to Macao and Hong Kong, such as those implemented in connection with the COVID-19 Pandemic.  These measures have, and any future policy developments implemented 30 may have, the effect of reducing the number of visitors to Macao from mainland China, which could adversely impact tourism and the gaming industry in Macao. The Macao and Singapore governments could grant additional rights to conduct gaming in the future and increase competition we face. We hold one of only six gaming concessions authorized by the Macao government to operate casinos in Macao through December 31, 2032. We hold one of two licenses granted by the Singapore government to operate a casino in Singapore during an exclusive period expiring on December 31, 2030.  If the Macao government were to allow additional gaming operators in Macao or the Singapore government were to license additional casinos, we would face additional competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Conducting business in Macao and Singapore has certain political and economic risks. Our business development plans, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected by significant political, social and economic developments in Macao and Singapore, and by changes in policies of the governments or changes in laws and regulations or their interpretations.  Our operations in Macao and Singapore are also exposed to the risk of changes in laws and policies that govern operations of companies based in those countries.  Jurisdictional tax laws and regulations may also be subject to amendment or different interpretation and implementation, thereby having an adverse effect on our profitability after tax.  These changes may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Current Macao and Singapore laws and regulations concerning gaming and gaming concessions and licenses are, for the most part, fairly recent and there is little precedent on the interpretation of these laws and regulations.  We believe our organizational structure and operations are in compliance in all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations of Macao and Singapore.  These laws and regulations are complex and a court or an administrative or regulatory body may in the future render an interpretation of these laws and regulations, or issue regulations, which differs from our interpretation and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, our activities in Macao and Singapore are subject to administrative review and approval by various government agencies.  We cannot assure you we will be able to obtain all necessary approvals, which may have a material adverse effect on our long-term business strategy and operations.  Macao and Singapore laws permit redress to the courts with respect to administrative actions; however, such redress is largely untested in relation to gaming issues. The Macao government approved smoking control legislation, which prohibits smoking in casinos other than in certain enumerated areas.  Such legislation may deter potential gaming customers who are smokers from frequenting casinos in jurisdictions with smoking bans such as Macao.  Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future.  We cannot predict the future likelihood or outcome of similar legislation or referendums in other jurisdictions where we operate or the magnitude of any decrease in revenues as a result of such regulations, though any smoking ban could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our tax arrangements with the Macao government may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. We have had the benefit of a corporate tax exemption in Maca o, which exempts us from paying the 12% corporate income tax on profits generated by the operation of casino games, but does not apply to our non-gaming activities.  We continued to benefit from this tax exemption through December 31, 2022.  Additionally, we entered into a shareholder dividend tax agreement with the Macao government in April 2019, effective through June 26, 2022, providing an annual payment as a substitution for a 12% tax otherwise due from VML shareholders on dividend distributions paid from VML gaming profits (the "Shareholder Dividend Tax Agreement").  In December 2022, we requested a corporate tax exemption on profits generated by the operation of casino games in Macao for the new gaming concession period effective from January 1, 2023 through December 31, 2032, or for a period of corporate tax exemption that the Chief Executive of Macao may deem more appropriate.  We are evaluating the timing of an application for a new shareholder dividend tax agreement.  There is no certainty either of the se tax arrangements will be granted. 31 We are subject to limitations on the transfers of cash to and from our subsidiaries, limitations of the pataca exchange markets and restrictions on the export of the renminbi. Our revenues in Macao are denominated in patacas, the legal currency of Macao, and Hong Kong dollars.  The Macao pataca is pegged to the Hong Kong dollar and, in many cases, is used interchangeably with the Hong Kong dollar in Macao.  Although currently permitted, we cannot assure you patacas will continue to be freely exchangeable into U.S. dollars.  Also, our ability to convert large amounts of patacas into U.S. dollars over a relatively short period may be limited. The ability of subsidiaries to make distributions to us depends on the earnings and cash flow generated from gaming operations and various other factors, including dividend requirements to third-party public stockholders in the case of funds being repatriated from SCL, compliance with certain local statutes, the laws and regulations currently and in the future applicable to our subsidiaries and restrictions in connection with their contractual arrangements.  While currently there is no foreign exchange or capital control restriction applicable to transactions between us and our Singapore, Macao, Hong Kong and mainland China subsidiaries, we cannot assure you that this will continue to be the case in the future.  In addition, the mainland Chinese government also imposes controls on the convertibility of the renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China by our subsidiaries incorporated in mainland China.  If, in the future, foreign exchange or capital control restrictions were to be imposed and become applicable to us, such restrictions could potentially reduce the amounts that we would be able to receive from our Singapore, Macao, Hong Kong and mainland China subsidiaries.  We do not expect withholding taxes or other foreign income taxes to apply should repatriated earnings be distributed in the form of dividends or otherwise. We are currently prohibited from accepting wagers in renminbi, the legal currency of China.  There are also restrictions on the remittance of the renminbi from mainland China and the amount of renminbi that can be converted into foreign currencies, including the pataca and Hong Kong dollar.  Restrictions on the remittance of the renminbi from mainland China may impede the flow of gaming customers from mainland China to Macao, inhibit the growth of gaming in Macao and negatively impact our gaming operations.  There is no assurance that incremental mainland Chinese regulations will not be promulgated in the future that have the effect of restricting or eliminating the remittance of renminbi from mainland China.  Further, if any new mainland Chinese regulations are promulgated in the future that have the effect of permitting or restricting (as the case may be) the remittance of renminbi from mainland China, then such remittances will need to be made subject to the specific requirements or restrictions set out in such rules. If restrictions are placed on the ability of our subsidiaries in Singapore, Macao, Hong Kong and mainland China to make distributions or declare dividends or limitations of the pataca exchange markets and restrictions on the export of the renminbi are realized, it could potentially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. VML may have financial and other obligations to foreign workers managed by its contractors under government labor quotas. The Macao government has granted VML a quota to permit it to hire foreign workers.  VML has effectively assigned the management of this quota to its contractors for the construction of our Cotai Strip projects.  VML, however, remains ultimately liable for all employer obligations relating to these employees, including for payment of wages and taxes and compliance with labor and workers' compensation laws.  VML requires each contractor to whom it has assigned the management of part of its labor quota to indemnify VML for any costs or liabilities VML incurs as a result of such contractor's failure to fulfill employer obligations.  VML's agreements with its contractors also contain provisions that permit it to retain some payments for up to one year after the contractors' complete work on the projects.  We cannot assure you VML's contractors will fulfill their obligations to employees hired under the labor quotas or to VML under the indemnification agreements, or the amount of any indemnification payments received will be sufficient to pay for any obligations VML may owe to employees managed by contractors under VML's quotas.  Until we make final payments to our contractors, we have offset rights to collect amounts they may owe us, including amounts owed under the indemnities relating to employer obligations.  After we have made the final payments, it may be more difficult for us to enforce any unpaid indemnity obligations. 32 Risks Related to Doing Business in China Our business, financial condition and results of operations and/or the value of our securities or our ability to offer or continue to offer securities to investors may be materially and adversely affected to the extent the laws and regulations of mainland China become applicable to our operations in Macao and Hong Kong or economic, political and legal developments in Macao adversely affect our Macao operations. We are a parent company with limited business operations of our own, and our main asset is the capital stock of our subsidiaries.  A significant portion of our business operations are based in Macao and held by various Macao-incorporated indirect subsidiaries of SCL, our majority-owned subsidiary incorporated in Cayman Islands and listed in Hong Kong (collectively referred to as the "Macao Operations").  We also have subsidiaries incorporated in mainland China and Hong Kong that provide back-office support, such as information technology, accounting, hotel management and marketing services, which complement and support SCL’s main back-office functions in Macao. We face various legal and operational risks and uncertainties relating to having a majority of our operations based in Macao and held by various Macao-incorporated indirect subsidiaries of SCL.  Substantially all of SCL’s assets are located in Macao and substantially all of SCL’s revenue is derived from Macao.  Accordingly, our results of operations, financial position and prospects are subject to a significant degree to the economic, political and legal situation in Macao.  China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries, including the structure of the economy, level of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of capital inflows and outflows, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. Our operations face risks and uncertainties associated with evolving Chinese laws and regulations, such as those associated with the extent to which the level of Chinese government involvement, control of capital inflows and outflows, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources currently applicable within mainland China may become applicable to us and other risks and uncertainties as to whether and how recent Chinese government statements and regulatory developments, such as those relating to data and cyberspace security and anti-monopoly, could result in a material change in our operations and/or the value of our securities or could significantly limit or completely hinder our ability to offer or continue to offer securities to investors, cause the value of such securities to significantly decline or be worthless and affect our ability to list securities on a U.S. or other foreign exchange.  If, in the future, there were to be a significant change in the manner in which the Chinese government exercises direct or indirect oversight, discretion or control over businesses operated in Macao, mainland China and Hong Kong, including the current interpretation and application of existing Chinese laws and regulations on how the Chinese government exercises direct or indirect oversight, discretion or control over businesses operated in Macao, mainland China and Hong Kong, it could potentially result in our Macao Operations being materially adversely affected and it could potentially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.  In addition, the Chinese government has recently indicated an intent to exert more oversight and control over offerings that are conducted overseas and/or foreign investment in China-based issuers. There may be risks and uncertainties associated with the evolving laws and regulations in China, including their interpretation and implementation with respect to the enforcement of laws, rules and regulations and the possibility of changes thereto with little advance notice.  If, in the future, there were to be any significant governmental intervention or influence in the future on, or in relation to our business or operations, or significant control over offerings of our securities or foreign investment in China-based issuers, this could potentially significantly limit or completely hinder our ability to offer or continue to offer securities to investors, cause the value of our securities to significantly decline or be worthless and affect our ability to list securities on a U.S. or other foreign exchange.  For example, on August 20, 2021, the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress (“SCNPC”) promulgated the Personal Information Protection Law of the PRC (“PIPL”), which became effective on November 1, 2021.  As the first systematic and comprehensive law specifically for the protection of personal information in the PRC, the PIPL provides extraterritorial effect on the personal information processing activities.  Since our data processing activities outside mainland China from our Macao Operations relate to the offering of goods or services directed at natural persons in mainland China, our businesses from our Macao Operations operated outside mainland China are potentially subject to the requirements of PIPL.  However, the implementation rules to the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the PIPL have not been finalized yet, and it remains unclear how the Chinese government will enforce such law.  If the extraterritorial jurisdiction under the PIPL were to be extended to us, our Macao Operations would be subject to certain data privacy obligations, which could 33 potentially result in a material change to our operations.  These data privacy obligations would primarily include bearing the responsibility for our personal information processing activities, and adopting the necessary measures to safeguard the security of the personal information we process in compliance with the standards required under the PIPL, the failure of which may result in us being ordered to correct or suspend or terminate the provision of services, confiscation of illegal income, fines or other penalties.  Specifically, if the PIPL were to become applicable to us, we would be required to (i) notify the individuals concerned of the processing of their personal information in detail and establish legal bases for such processing; (ii) improve internal data governance by implementing managerial and technical security measures and response plans for security incidents; (iii) designate a person in charge of personal information protection where we qualify as a “quantity processor” (to be defined by the CAC); (iv) establish a special agency or designate a representative within the territory of the PRC to be responsible for handling matters relating to personal information protection; (v) establish and make public the procedure for individuals to exercise their rights related to personal information; (vi) conduct an impact assessment on personal information protection before any high-risk processing activities; (vii) conclude an agreement with such vendor and supervise its processing where we entrust processing of personal information to any vendor; (viii) meet one of the conditions prescribed by the PIPL where we transfer personal information outside the territory of the PRC due to business or other needs.  In addition, under the PIPL, where an overseas organization or individual engages in personal information processing activities that infringe upon the personal information rights and interests of PRC citizens or endangering the national security and public interests of the PRC, the CAC may include such organization or individual in the list of subjects to whom provision of personal information is restricted or prohibited, announce the same, and take measures such as restricting or prohibiting provision of personal information to such organization or individual.  Moreover, if the recent Chinese regulatory actions on data security or other data-related laws and regulations were to become applicable to us in the future, we could become subject to certain cybersecurity and data privacy obligations, which could potentially result in a material change to our operations, and the failure to meet such obligations could result in penalties and other regulatory actions against us and may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Recent events also indicate greater oversight by the CAC over data security, particularly for companies with Chinese operations seeking to list on a foreign exchange. For example, the Measures for Cybersecurity Review (“Review Measures”) issued by the CAC came into effect on February 15, 2022.  The Review Measures provide that, in addition to critical information infrastructure operators (“CIIOs”) that intend to purchase network products or services, online platform operators engaging in data processing activities that affect or may affect national security shall also be subject to cybersecurity review.  The Review Measures require that an online platform operator which possesses the personal information of at least one million users must apply for a cybersecurity review by the CAC if it intends to be listed in foreign countries.  The Review Measures do not provide for a definition of “online platform operator” and, therefore, we cannot assure you that our Macao Operations will not be deemed as an “online platform operator.”  However, as of the date of this report, our subsidiaries incorporated in mainland China do not have over one million users’ personal information and do not anticipate that they will be collecting over one million users’ personal information in the foreseeable future, and on that basis we believe we are not required to apply for cybersecurity review by the CAC, even if we are deemed as an “online platform operator.”  The Review Measures are not enacted in accordance with the PIPL, so our obligation to apply for cybersecurity review will not change no matter whether the PIPL applies to us or not.  Further, we have not received any notice from any authorities identifying any of our subsidiaries as a CIIO or requiring them to undertake a cybersecurity review by the CAC.  While we believe our subsidiaries are not required to apply for cybersecurity review, the Review Measures provide CAC and relevant authorities certain discretion to initiate cybersecurity review where any network product or service or any data handling activity is considered to affect or may affect national security, which may lead to uncertainties in relation to the Review Measures’ impact on our operations or the offering of our securities. As advised by our PRC legal advisers, Haiwen & Partners, SCL is currently not required to obtain any permission or approval from the CSRC, CAC or any other mainland Chinese governmental authority to operate its business or to issue securities to foreign investors, other than those related to its two subsidiaries incorporated in mainland China that only provide back office support.  SCL has received all requisite permissions and approvals for its back office supporting functions located in mainland China, primarily being the standard business licenses issued by the relevant authorities in mainland China, and it has never been denied such permissions and approvals.  If SCL does not receive or maintain such permissions or approvals in relation to such back office support functions, we do not expect there will be any material adverse impact on the business, financial condition and results of our Macao 34 Operations.  However, in the event that we have inadvertently concluded that such permissions or approvals are not required or if, in the future, applicable laws, regulations or interpretations were to change and require SCL to obtain such permissions or approvals, the failure to obtain such permissions or approvals could potentially result in penalties and other regulatory actions against SCL and may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, we face risks and uncertainties associated with evolving Chinese laws and regulations, such as those associated with the extent to which the level of Chinese government involvement, control of capital inflows and outflows, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources currently applicable within mainland China may become applicable to us.  A significant portion of our assets are located in Macao and a significant portion of our revenue is derived from Macao.  Accordingly, our results of operations, financial position and prospects are subject to a significant degree to the economic, political and legal situation in Macao.  From December 20, 1999, Macao became a Special Administrative Region of China when China resumed the exercise of sovereignty over Macao.  The Basic Law of Macao provides that Macao will be governed under the principle of “one country, two systems” with its own separate government and legislature and that Macao will have a high degree of legislative, judicial and economic autonomy.  However, there can be no assurance that economic, political and legal developments in Macao will not adversely affect our operations, or that there will not be a change in the manner in which regulatory oversight is conducted in Macao, if China were to apply such laws and regulations of mainland China to our operations in Macao and Hong Kong.  If any such change were to occur, it could potentially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and prospects.  For example, currently in mainland China, the renminbi cannot be freely exchanged into any foreign currencies, and exchange and remittance of foreign currencies are subject to Chinese foreign exchange regulations.  If, in the future, similar regulations were to become applicable to the exchange and remittance of patacas or other currencies in Macao, there could potentially be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our securities may be prohibited from being traded in the U.S. securities market and our investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspections or investigations if the PCAOB were not able to conduct full inspections or investigations of our auditor. The Holding Foreign Companies Accountable Act (the “HFCA Act”) was enacted on December 18, 2020.   The HFCA Act states that if the SEC determines that an issuer has filed audit reports issued by a registered public accounting firm that has not been subject to inspection by the PCAOB for three consecutive years, the SEC shall prohibit the securities of the issuer from being traded on a national securities exchange or in the over-the-counter trading market in the United States.  On December 29, 2022, the Accelerating Holding Foreign Companies Accountable Act was signed into law, which reduced the number of consecutive non-inspection years required for triggering the listing and trading prohibitions under the HFCA Act from three years to two years. Under the HFCA Act, the SEC will identify a “Commission-Identified Issuer” if an issuer has filed an annual report containing an audit report issued by a registered public accounting firm that the PCAOB has determined it is unable to inspect or investigate completely because of a position taken by an authority in the foreign jurisdiction, and will then impose a trading prohibition on an issuer after it is identified as a Commission-Identified Issuer for three consecutive years.  If we were identified by the SEC as a Commission-Identified Issuer and have a “non-inspection” year, there is no assurance that we will be able to take remedial measures in a timely manner.  On December 15, 2022, the PCAOB reported that it was able, in 2022, to inspect and investigate completely audit firms headquartered in mainland China and Hong Kong and that, as a result, the PCAOB voted to vacate previous determinations to the contrary.  However, uncertainties remain whether the PCAOB can continue to make a determination in the future that it is able to inspect and investigate completely PCAOB-registered audit firms based in mainland China and Hong Kong. There could be additional regulatory or legislative requirements or guidance that could impact us if, in the future, our auditor is not subject to PCAOB inspection.  The SEC also may propose additional rules or guidance that could impact us if our auditor is not subject to PCAOB inspection.  The implications of any additional regulation or guidance in addition to the requirements of the HFCA Act are uncertain, and such uncertainty could cause the market price of our securities to be materially and adversely affected. 35 Our auditor, Deloitte & Touche LLP, is headquartered in the United States and was not identified as a firm that the PCAOB is unable to inspect, pursuant to the HFCA Act.   However, there is no assurance that future audit reports will be prepared by auditors able to be inspected by the PCAOB. If the PCAOB is unable to conduct inspections or full investigations of our auditor, our securities could be prohibited from being traded in the U.S. securities market, including “over-the-counter,” if, in the future, we were to be identified as a Commission-Identified Issuer for two consecutive years.  Such a prohibition could substantially impair your ability to sell or purchase our securities when you wish to do so, and the risk and uncertainty associated with a potential prohibition could have a negative impact on the price of our securities. Also, such a prohibition could significantly affect our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms, or at all, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects. Inspections of other audit firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality.  If the PCAOB were unable to conduct inspections or full investigations of our auditor, we and investors in our securities would be deprived of the benefits of such PCAOB inspections.  In addition, the inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections or full investigations of auditors would make it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors that are subject to the PCAOB inspections, which could cause investors and potential investors to lose confidence in the audit procedures and reported financial information and the quality of our financial statements. Risks Related to Stock Ownership and Stockholder Matters The interests of our principal stockholders in our business may be different from yours. Dr. Adelson, her family members and trusts and other entities established for the benefit of Dr. Adelson‘s family members (collectively our "Principal Stockholders") beneficially owned approximately 57% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2022.  Accordingly, our Principal Stockholders exercise significant influence over our business policies and affairs, including the composition of our Board of Directors and any action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the adoption of amendments to our articles of incorporation and the approval of a merger or sale of substantially all of our assets.  The concentration of ownership may also delay, defer or even prevent a change in control of our company and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of our Principal Stockholders.  The interests of our Principal Stockholders may differ from your interests. Conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of SCL. In November 2009, our subsidiary, SCL, listed its ordinary shares on The Main Board of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the "SCL Offering").  We currently own 69.9% of the issued and outstanding ordinary shares of SCL.  As a result of SCL having stockholders who are not affiliated with us, we and certain of our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of SCL may have conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and to the minority stockholders of SCL.  Decisions that could have different implications for us and SCL, including contractual arrangements we have entered into or may in the future enter into with SCL, may give rise to the appearance of a potential conflict of interest. Human Capital Related Risk Factors We depend on the continued services of key officers. Our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to a large degree on the services of our senior management team, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Robert G. Goldstein, and our President and Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Patrick Dumont.  The loss of their services or the services of our other senior managers, or the inability to attract and retain additional senior management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. 36 We compete for limited management and labor resources in Macao and Singapore, and policies of those governments may also affect our ability to employ imported managers or labor. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract, retain, train, manage and motivate skilled managers and employees at our properties.  The Macao government requires we only hire Macao residents in our casinos for certain employee roles, including roles such as dealers.  In addition, we are required in Macao to obtain visas and work permits for managers and employees we seek to employ from other countries.  There is significant competition in Macao and Singapore for managers and employees with the skills required to perform the services we offer and competition for these individuals in Macao is likely to increase as other competitors expand their operations.  Such competition has intensified recently as certain skilled managers have elected to return to their home countries due to the impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic. We may have to recruit managers and employees from other countries to adequately staff and manage our properties and certain Macao government policies affect our ability to hire non-resident managers and employees in certain job classifications.  Despite our coordination with the Macao labor and immigration authorities to ensure our management and labor needs are satisfied, we may not be able to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified managers or employees for our operations or the Macao labor and immigration authorities may not grant us the necessary visas or work permits. For example, due to the impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic, the government in Singapore is increasingly trying to protect jobs for the local population, which could make it more difficult to obtain and renew visas or work permits for our foreign staff members. If we are unable to obtain, attract, retain and train skilled managers and employees, and obtain any required visas or work permits for our skilled managers and employees, our ability to adequately manage and staff our existing properties and planned development projects could be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Labor actions and other labor problems could negatively impact our operations. From time to time, we have experienced attempts by labor organizations to organize certain of our non-union employees in the United States.  Additionally, in the past, certain unions engaged in confrontational and obstructive tactics at some of our properties, including contacting potential customers, tenants and investors, objecting to various administrative approvals, social media campaigns and informational picketing, and these tactics may be utilized again by certain unions in the future.  Although we believe we will be able to operate despite such tactics should they reoccur, no assurance can be given we will be able to do so or the failure to do so would not cause reputational damage and/or have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  Although no assurances can be given, if employees decide to be represented by labor unions, management does not believe such representation would have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  We cannot provide any assurance we will not experience additional and successful union activity in the future.  The impact of any union activity is undetermined and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. General Risk Factors We may fail to establish and protect our IP rights and could be subject to claims of IP infringement. We endeavor to establish, protect and enforce our intellectual property ("IP"), including our trademarks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade secrets and other confidential and proprietary information.  There can be no assurance, however, the steps we take to protect our IP will be sufficient. If a third party successfully challenges our trademarks, we could have difficulty maintaining exclusive rights. If a third party claims we have infringed, currently infringe or could in the future infringe upon its IP rights, we may need to cease use of such IP, defend our rights or take other steps.  In addition, if third parties violate their obligations to us to maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary information or there is a security breach or lapse, or if third parties misappropriate or infringe upon our IP, our business may be affected.  Our inability to adequately obtain, maintain or defend our IP rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 37 The licensing of our trademarks to third parties could result in reputational harm for us. The conduct of the Las Vegas Operations under the “Venetian” and “Palazzo” brands and certain other trademarks licensed to the Las Vegas Operations pursuant to the agreements effecting the Las Vegas Sale could result in reputational harm to certain of the businesses we are retaining that will continue to operate under such brands if the Las Vegas Operations does not continue to operate in accordance with our high standards and applicable laws as required under such agreements. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer and our insurance costs may increase in the future. We maintain comprehensive insurance programs for our properties in operation, as well as those in the course of construction, with coverage features and insured limits we believe are customary in their amount, breadth and scope.  Market forces beyond our control may nonetheless limit the scope of the insurance coverage we can obtain or our ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates.  Certain types of losses, generally of a pandemic or catastrophic nature, such as infectious disease, (for example, the COVID-19 Pandemic), earthquakes, hurricanes, floods or cyber-related losses, or certain other liabilities including terrorist activity, political unrest, geopolitical strife or actual or threatened war may be, or are, uninsurable or too expensive to justify obtaining insurance.  As a result, we may not be successful in obtaining insurance without increases in cost or decreases in coverage levels. In addition, in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage we carry may not be sufficient to pay the full market value or replacement cost of our lost investment or in some cases could result in certain losses being totally uninsured.  As a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, and we could remain obligated for debt or other financial obligations related to the property. Certain of our debt instruments and other material agreements require us to maintain a certain minimum level of insurance.  Failure to satisfy these requirements could result in an event of default under these debt instruments or material agreements. We are subject to changes in tax laws and regulations. We are subject to taxation and regulation by various government agencies, primarily in Macao, Singapore and the U.S. (federal, state and local levels).  From time to time, U.S. federal, state, local and foreign governments make substantive changes to income tax, indirect tax and gaming tax rules and the application of these rules, which could result in higher taxes than would be incurred under existing tax law or interpretation.  In particular, government agencies may make changes that could reduce the profits we can effectively realize from our non-U.S. operations. Like most U.S. companies, our effective income tax rate reflects the fact that income earned and reinvested outside the U.S. is taxed at local rates, which are often lower than U.S. tax rates.  For example, the U.S. enacted the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (“IRA”) in August 2022.  The IRA contains numerous provisions including a 15% corporate alternative minimum tax and a 1% excise tax on corporate stock repurchases beginning January 1, 2023.  The Internal Revenue Service has been granted broad authority to issue regulations or other guidance that could clarify how these taxes will be applied. If changes in tax laws and regulations were to significantly increase the tax rates on gaming revenues or income, these changes could increase our tax expense and liability, and therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Failure to maintain the integrity of our information and information systems or comply with applicable privacy and cybersecurity requirements and regulations could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business. Our business requires the collection and retention of large volumes of data and non-electronic information, including credit card numbers and other information in various information systems we maintain and in those maintained by third parties with whom we contract and may share data.  We also maintain internal information about our employees and information relating to our operations.  The integrity and protection of that information are important to us. Our collection of such information is subject to extensive private and governmental regulation. Privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations are developing and changing frequently, and vary significantly by jurisdiction.  We may incur significant costs in our efforts to comply with the various applicable privacy and 38 cybersecurity laws and regulations as they emerge and change.  Compliance with applicable privacy laws and regulations also may adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties, and services to our guests and patrons.  Non-compliance by us, or potentially by third parties with which we share information, with any applicable privacy and cybersecurity law or regulation, including accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure, unauthorized access or dissemination, or breach of security may result in damage to our reputation and could subject us to fines, penalties, required corrective actions, lawsuits, payment of damages, or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. We have experienced a sophisticated criminal cybersecurity attack in the past and may experience with more frequency global cybersecurity and information security threats, which may range from uncoordinated individual attempts to sophisticated and targeted measures directed at us.  There has been an increase in criminal cybersecurity attacks against companies where customer and company information has been compromised and company data has been destroyed.  Our information systems and records, including those we maintain with third-party service providers, may be subject to cyber-attacks and information security breaches.  Cyber-attacks and information security breaches may include attempts to access information, computer malware such as viruses, denial of service, ransomware attacks that encrypt, exfiltrate, or otherwise render data unusable or unavailable in an effort to extort money or other consideration as a condition to purportedly returning the data to a usable form, operator errors or misuse, or inadvertent releases of data or documents, and other forms of electronic and non-electronic information security breaches.  Our data security measures are reviewed regularly and we rely on proprietary and commercially available systems, software, tools, and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission, and storage of customer and employee information.  We also rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, maintain information, and manage our businesses.  Our third-party information system service providers and other third parties that share data with us pursuant to contractual agreements also face risks relating to cybersecurity and privacy, and we do not directly control any of such parties' information security or privacy operations.  For example, the systems currently used for the transmission and approval of payment card transactions, and the technology utilized in payment cards themselves, are determined and controlled by the payment card industry, not us.  Our gaming operations rely heavily on technology services provided by third parties.  In the event there is an interruption of these services to us, it may have an adverse effect on our operations and financial condition.  Disruptions in the availability of our computer systems, or those of third parties we engage to provide gaming operating systems for the facilities we operate, through cybersecurity attacks or otherwise, could impact our ability to service our customers and adversely affect our sales and the results of operations. A significant theft, destruction, loss or fraudulent use of information maintained by us or by a third-party service provider could have an adverse effect on our reputation, cause a material disruption to our operations and management team and result in remediation expenses (including liability for stolen assets or information, repairing system damage and offering incentives to customers or business partners to maintain their relationships after an attack) and regulatory fines, penalties and corrective actions, or lawsuits by regulators, third-party service providers, third parties that share data with us pursuant to contractual agreements and/or people whose data is or may be impacted.  Such theft, destruction, loss or fraudulent use could also result in litigation by stockholders. Advances in computer software capabilities and encryption technology, new tools, and other developments, including continuously evolving attack methods that may exploit vulnerabilities based on these advances, may increase the risk of a security breach or other intrusion.  In addition, we may incur increased cybersecurity and privacy protection costs that may include organizational changes, deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, training employees and engaging third-party experts and consultants.  There can be no assurance the financial resources available to us relating to cybersecurity and privacy risks will be sufficient in the event of a major cybersecurity or privacy event.  Any of these events could interrupt our operations, adversely impact our reputation and brand and expose us to increased risks of governmental investigation, litigation, fines and other liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Because we own real property, we are subject to extensive environmental regulation. We have incurred and will continue to incur costs to comply with environmental requirements, such as those relating to discharges into the air, water and land, the handling, diversion or disposal of solid and hazardous waste and the cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substances.  Under these and other environmental requirements, we may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at our properties and may be held responsible to governmental entities or third parties, as an owner or operator, for property damage, personal injury and investigation and cleanup costs incurred by them in connection with any contamination.  These 39 laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants.  The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of those substances may be substantial, and the presence of those substances, or the failure to remediate a property properly, may impair our ability to use our properties. We are subject to risks from litigation, investigations, enforcement actions and other disputes. Our business is subject to various U.S. and international laws and regulations that could lead to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages.  In addition, improper conduct by our employees, agents or gaming promoters could damage our reputation and/or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines.  In certain circumstances, it may not be economical to defend against such matters and/or our legal strategy may not ultimately result in us prevailing in a matter.  The investigations, litigation and other disputes may also lead to additional scrutiny from regulators, which could lead to investigations relating to, and possibly negatively impact, our gaming licenses and our ability to bid successfully for new gaming market opportunities.  We cannot predict the outcome of any pending or future proceedings and the impact they will have on our financial results, but any such impact may be material.  While some of these claims are covered by insurance, we cannot be certain that all of them will be, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  Additionally, changes in applicable laws or regulations that limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions, discourage the use of plastic materials or regulate recovery and/or disposal of certain waste streams and packaging materials due to environmental concerns may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures and other financial obligations. We could be negatively impacted by environmental, social and governance and sustainability matters. Governments, investors, customers, employees and other stakeholders are increasingly focusing on corporate environmental, social and governance ("ESG") practices and disclosures, and expectations in this area are rapidly evolving and growing.  The criteria by which our ESG practices are assessed may change due to the evolution of the sustainability landscape, which could result in greater expectations of us and cause us to undertake costly initiatives to satisfy such new criteria.  If we are unable to satisfy such new criteria, stakeholders may conclude our policies and/or actions with respect to ESG matters are inadequate and our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by, the audited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto, and other financial information included in this Form 10-K.  Certain statements in this "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" are forward-looking statements. See "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements." Overview We view each of our Integrated Resorts as an operating segment. Our operating segments in Macao consist of The Venetian Macao; The Londoner Macao; The Parisian Macao; The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Macao; and the Sands Macao.  Our operating segment in Singapore is Marina Bay Sands. On February 23, 2022, we closed on the sale of our Las Vegas real property and operations, including The Venetian Resort Las Vegas and the Sands Expo and Convention Center (the “Las Vegas Operations”), for $6.25 billion (the “Las Vegas Sale”).  At closing, we received approximately $5.05 billion in cash proceeds, before transaction costs and working capital adjustments of $77 million, a $1.20 billion seller financing loan and recognized a gain on disposal of $3.60 billion, before income tax expense of $750 million, during the year ended December 31, 2022. During 2022, we achieved milestones in advancing several of our strategic objectives.  We were awarded a new 10-year gaming concession for the operation of casino games of chance in Macao under the Concession entered into with the Macao government.  We completed our key development project in Macao with the conversion of Sands Cotai Central into The Londoner Macao, in which the Londoner Arena and the expansion of the Shoppes at Londoner were completed during the first half of 2022.  We began renovations at Marina Bay Sands, to provide world-class suites in Tower 1 and Tower 2, and welcomed the return of Marina Bay Sands to normal operating conditions in the second half of 2022 with the removal of various COVID-19 restrictions.  We also continued to strengthen our balance sheet with the completion of the sale of the Las Vegas Operations. COVID-19 Pandemic Update While visitation to Macao remains substantially below pre-COVID-19 pandemic levels, the Macao government's policy regarding the management of COVID-19 and general travel restrictions has adjusted in line with changes in policy in mainland China in late December 2022 and early January 2023.  Currently, visitors from mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan may enter Macao, subject to them holding the appropriate travel documents, without having to present any proof of COVID-19 testing.  Arrivals from foreign countries must provide proof of a negative COVID-19 nucleic acid test ("NAT") or antigen test completed within 48 hours prior to arrival.  Our operations in Macao will continue to be impacted and subject to changes in the government policies of Macao, mainland China, Hong Kong and other jurisdictions in Asia addressing travel and public health measures associated with COVID-19. Throughout the year ended December 31, 2022, various outbreaks occurred in the region, particularly in Hong Kong in late January and early February, the Guangdong province in March, Macao in mid-June and Zhuhai in early October, all of which resulted in various travel, border and/or operational restrictions.  Specifically, on July 9, 2022, the Macao government ordered casinos and all non-essential businesses to close from July 11 to July 18 in an attempt to control the outbreak in Macao, which was extended through July 22, 2022.  On July 20, 2022, the Macao government announced a consolidation period, which started on July 23, 2022 and ended on July 30, 2022, whereby certain business activities were allowed to resume limited operations; however, casino operations resumed, but with a maximum capacity of 50% of casino staff working at any point.  Throughout August, these preventative measures were gradually reduced, as well as various restrictions on movement between Macao and Zhuhai were progressively lifted by both the Macao and mainland China governments. Various travel restrictions, such as border closures, mandatory quarantines and proof of negative COVID-19 testing on arrival in Macao, among others, were in effect at various times during the year ended December 31, 2022, resulting in fluctuations in guest travel and visitation. 44 The Hong Kong / Macao Express bus service and the ferry services between the Taipa Ferry Terminal and Hong Kong International Airport recommenced on December 24, 2022 and December 30, 2022, respectively.  Our ferry operations between Macao and Hong Kong were suspended throughout 2022 and resumed operation on a limited basis on January 8, 2023. Our Macao gaming operations remained open during most of the year ended December 31, 2022.  While guest visitation has begun to recover with the gradual relaxation of travel and quarantine restrictions, the timing and manner in which our casinos, restaurants and shopping malls will operate at full capacity will progressively be assessed against business volumes. At our Macao properties, all social distancing requirements, including those requiring reduced seating at table games and a decreased number of active slot machines on the casino floor compared to pre-COVID-19 levels, have ceased in early January 2023. As with prior periods, in support of the Macao government’s initiatives to fight the COVID-19 Pandemic, at various times throughout the year ended December 31, 2022, we provided both towers of the Sheraton Grand Macao hotel and also The Parisian Macao hotel to the Macao government to house individuals for quarantine and medical observation purposes. Our operations in Macao have been significantly impacted by the reduced visitation to Macao.   The Macao government announced total visitation from mainland China to Macao decreased approximately 27.5% and 81.7%, during the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to the same period in 2021 and 2019 (pre-pandemic), respectively.  The Macao government also announced gross gaming revenue decreased approximately 51.4% and 85.6%, during the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to the same period in 2021 and 2019, respectively. In Singapore, the Vaccinated Travel Framework (“VTF”) was launched on April 1, 2022, to facilitate the resumption of travel for all travelers, including short-term visitors.  Under the VTF, all fully vaccinated travelers are permitted to enter Singapore, without entry approvals, and starting April 26, 2022, these travelers are no longer required to take a COVID-19 test before departing for Singapore.  Non-fully vaccinated travelers need only take a pre-departure test within two days before departure for Singapore and test negative before departing for Singapore.  Operations at Marina Bay Sands will continue to be impacted and subject to changes in the government policies of Singapore and other jurisdictions in Asia, if any, addressing travel and public health measures associated with COVID-19. Visitation to Marina Bay Sands continues to be impacted by the effects of the COVID-19 Pandemic; however, visitation has increased since restrictions have been lifted.  The STB announced total visitation to Singapore increased from approximately 330,000 in 2021 to 6.3 million in 2022, while visitation decreased 67.0% when compared to the same period in 2019. While our properties were open and some operating at reduced levels due to lower visitation and required safety measures in place as described above during the year ended December 31, 2022, the current economic and regulatory environment on a global basis and in each of our jurisdictions continue to evolve.  We cannot predict the manner in which governments will react as the global and regional impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic changes over time, which could significantly alter our current operations. We have a strong balance sheet and sufficient liquidity in place, including total unrestricted cash and cash equivalents of $6.31 billion and access to $1.50 billion, $541 million and $439 million of available borrowing capacity from our LVSC Revolving Facility, 2018 SCL Revolving Facility and the 2012 Singapore Revolving Facility, respectively, as of December 31, 2022.  We believe we are able to support continuing operations, complete the major construction projects that are underway and respond to the current COVID-19 Pandemic challenges.  We have taken various mitigating measures to manage through the current environment, including a cost and capital expenditure reduction program to minimize cash outflow for nonessential items. Macao Concession Until December 31, 2022, gaming in Macao was administered by the government through concession agreements awarded to three different concessionaires and three subconcessionaires, of which VML was one.  On June 23, 2022, an extension was approved and authorized by the Macao government and executed between VML and Galaxy Casino, S.A., pursuant to which the subconcession was extended from June 26, 2022 to December 31, 45 2022 (the “Subconcession Amendment”).  VML paid the Macao government 47 million patacas (approximately $6 million at exchange rates in effect at the time of the transaction) and provided a bank guarantee on September 20, 2022, of 2.31 billion patacas (approximately $289 million at exchange rates as defined in the bank guarantee contract) to secure the fulfillment of VML's paym ent obligations towards its employees if VML were unsuccessful in tendering for a new concession contract after its subconcession expired. On November 26, 2022, the Macao government awarded six concessions to six of the bidders on a temporary basis, of which VML was one, subject to fulfillment of certain conditions, namely providing a bank guarantee of 1.0 billion patacas (approximately $125 million at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2022) to secure the fulfillment of VML’s legal, contractual and other obligations, including labor obligations.  VML complied with all of these conditions by December 9, 2022.  On December 16, 2022, the Macao government awarded six concessions on a definitive basis, of which VML was one, and VML entered into the Concession with the Macao government, effective as of January 1, 2023, and for the duration of ten years.  On December 19, 2022, VML requested the release of all the bank guarantees it provided to the Macao government under its subconcession, and in January 2023 such bank guarantees were released, including the 2.31 billion patacas bank guarantee. On December 30, 2022, in accordance with the requirements of the Gaming Law and their obligations under letters of undertakings (the "Undertakings"), each of VML, Venetian Cotai Limited ("VCL"), Venetian Orient Limited ("VOL") and Cotai Strip Lot 2 Apart Hotel (Macau) Limited (“CSL2 ,” a subsidiary of SCL ) entered into deeds of reversion, pursuant to which each of VML, VCL, VOL and CSL2 confirmed and agreed to revert to the Macao government relevant gaming equipment and gaming areas (as identified in the Undertakings) without compensation and free of any liens or charges upon the expiry of the term of the subconcession extension period.  On the same day, VML entered into a handover record (the "Handover Record"), pursuant to which the right to operate the same gaming equipment and gaming areas was granted to VML for the duration of the Concession, in return for annual payments of 750 patacas per square meter for the first three years and 2,500 patacas per square meter for the following seven years (approximately $93 and $311, respectively, at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2022).  The annual payment of 750 patacas per square meter will be adjusted with the Macao average price index of the corresponding preceding year for years two and three and the annual payment of 2,500 patacas per square meter will be adjusted with the Macao average price index of the corresponding preceding year for years five through ten. Inflation Reduction Act The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (“IRA”) was signed into law on August 16, 2022.  The IRA contains numerous provisions including a 15% corporate alternative minimum tax (“CAMT”) for certain large corporations that have at least an average of $1 billion adjusted financial statement income over a consecutive three-year period effective in tax years beginning after December 31, 2022.  Applicable corporations would be allowed to claim a credit for the corporate minimum tax paid against regular tax in future years.  The IRA also includes a 1% excise tax on corporate stock repurchases beginning January 1, 2023.  The CAMT could impact our future cash flows and results of operations.  The Internal Revenue Service has been granted broad authority to issue regulations or other guidance that could clarify how these taxes will be applied.  We will continue to evaluate the impact of the IRA as additional information becomes available. Intercompany Loan Agreement with SCL On July 11, 2022, we entered into an intercompany term loan agreement with SCL, a related party, in the amount of $1.0 billion, which is repayable on July 11, 2028.  In the first two years from July 11, 2022, SCL will have the option to elect to pay cash interest at 5% per annum or payment-in-kind interest at 6% per annum by adding the amount of such interest to the then-outstanding principal amount of the loan, following which only cash interest at 5% per annum will be payable.  This loan is unsecured, subordinated to all third party unsecured indebtedness and other obligations of SCL and its subsidiaries and is eliminated in consolidation. Key Operating Revenue Measurements Operating revenues at The Venetian Macao, The Londoner Macao, The Parisian Macao, The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Macao, Marina Bay Sands and our Las Vegas Operating Properties, prior to its sale on February 23, 2022, are dependent upon the volume of customers who stay at the hotel, which affects the price charged for hotel 46 rooms and our gaming volume.  Operating revenues at Sands Macao are principally driven by casino customers who visit the property on a daily basis. Management utilizes the following volume and pricing measures in order to evaluate past performance and assist in forecasting future revenues.  The various volume measurements indicate our ability to attract customers to our Integrated Resorts.  In casino operations, win and hold percentages indicate the amount of revenue to be expected based on volume.  In hotel operations, average daily rate and revenue per available room indicate the demand for rooms and our ability to capture that demand.  In mall operations, base rent per square foot indicates our ability to attract and maintain profitable tenants for our leasable space. The following are the key measurements we use to evaluate operating revenues: Casino revenue measurements for Macao and Singapore: Macao and Singapore table games are segregated into two groups: Rolling Chip play (composed of VIP players) and Non-Rolling Chip play (mostly non-VIP players).  The volume measurement for Rolling Chip play is non-negotiable gaming chips wagered and lost.  The volume measurement for Non-Rolling Chip play is table games drop ("drop"), which is net markers issued (credit instruments), cash deposited in the table drop boxes and gaming chips purchased and exchanged at the cage.  Rolling Chip and Non-Rolling Chip volume measurements are not comparable as they are two distinct measures of volume.  The amounts wagered and lost for Rolling Chip play are substantially higher than the amounts dropped for Non-Rolling Chip play.  Slot handle, also a volume measurement, is the gross amount wagered for the period cited. We view Rolling Chip win as a percentage of Rolling Chip volume, Non-Rolling Chip win as a percentage of drop and slot hold (amount won by the casino) as a percentage of slot handle.  Win or hold percentage represents the percentage of Rolling Chip volume, Non-Rolling Chip drop or slot handle that is won by the casino and recorded as casino revenue.  Our win and hold percentages are calculated before discounts, commissions, deferring revenue associated with our loyalty programs and allocating casino revenues related to goods and services provided to patrons on a complimentary basis.  Our Rolling Chip win percentage is expected to be 3.15% to 3.45% in Macao and Singapore.  Actual win percentage may vary from our expected win percentage and historical win and hold percentages.  Generally, slot machine play is conducted on a cash basis.  In Macao and Singapore, 9.8% and 15.8%, respectively, of our table games play was conducted on a credit basis for the year ended December 31, 2022. Casino revenue measurements for the U.S.: The volume measurements in the U.S. were slot handle, as previously described, and table games drop, which was the total amount of cash and net markers issued (credit instruments) deposited in the table drop box.  We viewed table games win as a percentage of drop and slot hold as a percentage of slot handle.  Our win and hold percentages were calculated before discounts, commissions, deferring revenue associated with our loyalty programs and allocating casino revenues related to goods and services provided to patrons on a complimentary basis.  Similar to Macao and Singapore, slot machine play was generally conducted on a cash basis. Hotel revenue measurements: Performance indicators used are occupancy rate (a volume indicator), which is the average percentage of available hotel rooms occupied during a period, and average daily room rate ("ADR," a price indicator), which is the average price of occupied rooms per day.  Available rooms exclude those rooms unavailable for occupancy during the period due to renovation, development or other requirements (such as government mandated closure, lodging for team members and usage by the Macao and Singapore governments for quarantine measures).  The calculations of the occupancy rate and ADR include the impact of rooms provided on a complimentary basis.  Revenue per available room ("RevPAR") represents a summary of hotel ADR and occupancy.  Because not all available rooms are occupied, ADR is normally higher than RevPAR. Reserved rooms where the guests do not show up for their stay and lose their deposit, or where guests check out early, may be re-sold to walk-in guests. Mall revenue measurements: Occupancy, base rent per square foot and tenant sales per square foot are used as performance indicators.  Occupancy represents gross leasable occupied area ("GLOA") divided by gross leasable area ("GLA") at the end of the reporting period.  GLOA is the sum of: (1) tenant occupied space under lease and (2) tenants no longer occupying space, but paying rent.  GLA does not include space currently under development or not on the market for lease.  Base rent per square foot is the weighted average base or minimum rent charge, excluding rent concessions, in effect at the end of the reporting period for all tenants that would qualify to be included in occupancy.  Tenant sales per square foot is the sum of reported comparable sales for the trailing 47 12 months divided by the comparable square footage for the same period.  Only tenants that have been open for a minimum of 12 months are included in the tenant sales per square foot calculation. Year Ended December 31, 2022 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2021 Summary Financial Results The reopening of borders and elimination of most pandemic-related restrictions in Singapore positively impacted the financial results of Marina Bay Sands.  In contrast, tighter border and travel restrictions had an adverse impact at our Macao operations.  See "COVID-19 Pandemic Update" for further information. Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2022 were $4.11 billion, compared to $4.23 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021.  Operating loss was $792 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to $689 million for the year ended December 31, 2021.  Net loss from continuing operations was $1.54 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to $1.47 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021. Operating Revenues Our net revenues consisted of the following: Consolidated net revenues were $4.11 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022, a decrease of $124 million compared to $4.23 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021, driven by a decrease of $1.27 billion at our Macao operations due to decreased visitation as tighter border restrictions were introduced throughout 2022 as a result of increased COVID-19 cases in Macao and the surrounding region.  The decrease was partially offset by an increase of $1.15 billion at Marina Bay Sands, primarily due to increased visitation from the reopening of borders and elimination of most pandemic-related restrictions in April 2022. Net casino revenues decreased $265 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2021.  The decrease was driven by a $1.04 billion decrease at our Macao operations due to lower visitation across our properties resulting in decreased table games and slot volumes.  Casino revenues at Marina Bay Sands increased by $775 million due to increased table games and slot volumes, driven by the reopening of borders and elimination of most pandemic-related restrictions, partially offset by a lower Rolling Chip win percentage.  The following table summarizes the results of our casino activity: 48 49 __________________________ (1)    The Las Vegas Operating Properties are classified as a discontinued operation.  We completed the sale on February 23, 2022.  Financial results are for the period through February 22, 2022. In our experience, average win percentages remain fairly consistent when measured over extended periods of time with a significant volume of wagers, but can vary considerably within shorter time periods as a result of the statistical variances associated with games of chance in which large amounts are wagered. 50 Room revenues increased $54 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2021.  The increase was primarily due to increased occupancy rates and ADR at Marina Bay Sands driven by increased visitation, partially offset by decreased occupancy rates and ADR driven by reduced visitation at our Macao properties.  The following table summarizes the results of our room activity : _________________________ (1) During the year ended December 31, 2022, approximately 500 rooms were under construction for renovation purposes. (2) The Las Vegas Operating Properties are classified as a discontinued operation.  We completed the sale on February 23, 2022.  Financial results are for the period through February 22, 2022. 51 Food and beverage revenues increased $102 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2021.  The increase was due to a $128 million increase driven by increased business volume at food and beverage outlets and banquets at Marina Bay Sands, partially offset by a decrease of $26 million at our Macao operations. Mall revenues decreased $69 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2021.  A $119 million  decrease in mall revenues in Macao, driven by decreases in base rent and turnover rent, and an increase in rent concessions granted to our mall tenants, was partially offset by a $50 million increase in mall revenues at Marina Bay Sands, driven by a decrease in rent concessions granted to our mall tenants and an increase in turnover rent. For further information related to the financial performance of our malls, see "Additional Information Regarding our Retail Mall Operations."  The following table summarizes the results of our malls on the Cotai Strip in Macao and in Singapore: _________________________ Note:    This table excludes the results of retail outlets at Sands Macao.  As a result of the COVID-19 Pandemic, tenants were provided rent concessions during the year ended December 31, 2022 and 2021.  Base rent per square foot presented above excludes the impact of these rent concessions. 52 (1) Tenant sales per square foot is the sum of reported comparable sales for the trailing 12 months divided by the comparable square footage for the same period. Convention, retail, and other revenues increased $54 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2021.  The increase was due to increases of $47 million and $7 million at Marina Bay Sands and our Macao operations, respectively, driven primarily by increases in convention revenue at Marina Bay Sands, and quarantine room revenue at the Sheraton Grand Macao hotel and The Parisian Macao. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consisted of the following: Operating expenses were $4.90 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022, a decrease of $21 million compared to $4.92 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021.  The decrease was primarily driven by a $276 million decrease in casino expenses, partially offset by increases of $105 million in general and administrative expenses, $75 million in food and beverage expenses, $34 million in in development expenses and $24 million in corporate expenses. Casino expenses decreased $276 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2021.  The decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease of $290 million in gaming taxes.  The $1.04 billion decrease in casino revenue at our Macao operating properties is subject to a 39% tax rate, whereas the $775 million increase in casino revenue at Marina Bay Sands is subject to a lower tax rate. Food and beverage expenses increased $75 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2021.  The increase was due to an $86 million increase at Marina Bay Sands, driven by increased business volume at food outlets and banquets and consistent with increased revenues, partially offset by an $11 million decrease at our Macao operations. Convention, retail and other expenses increased $18 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily driven by an increase of $16 million, consistent with increased revenues at Marina Bay Sands. The provision for credit losses was $15 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to $3 million for the year ended December 31, 2021.  The $12 million increase was primarily driven by an $11 million increase at Marina Bay Sands due to an increase in new credit issued and patrons who were unable to return to the property. The amount of this provision can vary over short periods of time because of factors specific to the patrons who owe us money from gaming activities.  We believe the amount of our provision for credit losses in the future will depend upon the state of the economy, our credit standards, our risk assessments and the judgment of our employees responsible for granting credit. 53 General and administrative expenses increased $105 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily driven by increases at Marina Bay Sands.  The increases were primarily driven by increases in property operation costs, marketing and payroll to support the increased visitation and property tax and insurance costs. Corporate expenses increased $24 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2021.  The increase was primarily driven by increases in bonuses and stock-based compensation. Pre-opening expenses represent personnel and other costs incurred prior to the opening of new ventures, which are expensed as incurred.  The majority of pre-opening expenses for the year ended December 31, 2022, related to Marina Bay Sands.  Pre-opening expenses for the year ended December 31, 2021, related to The Londoner Macao. Development expenses were $143 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to $109 million for the year ended December 31, 2021.  During the year ended December 31, 2022, the costs were associated with our evaluation and pursuit of new business opportunities, primarily in Florida and Texas, and our digital gaming related efforts.  Development costs are expensed as incurred. Loss on disposal or impairment of assets was $9 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to $27 million for the year ended December 31, 2021.  The losses incurred for the year ended December 31, 2022, were primarily due to $4 million in asset disposals related to aircraft parts and $3 million in asset disposal and demolition costs, primarily at The Londoner Macao, The Venetian Macao, Sands Macao and our corporate offices.  The losses for the year ended December 31, 2021, were primarily due to asset disposals and demolition costs related to The Londoner Macao. Segment Adjusted Property EBITDA The following table summarizes information related to our segments (see "Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Note 20 — Segment Information" for discussion of our operating segments): _________________________ (1) Consolidated adjusted property EBITDA, which is a non-GAAP financial measure, is used by management as the primary measure of the operating performance of our segments.  Consolidated adjusted property EBITDA is net income/loss before stock-based compensation expense, corporate expense, pre-opening expense, development expense, depreciation and amortization, amortization of leasehold interests in land, gain or loss on disposal or impairment of assets, interest, other income or expense, gain or loss on modification or early retirement of debt and income taxes. Consolidated adjusted property EBITDA is a supplemental non-GAAP financial measure used by management, as well as industry analysts, to evaluate operations and operating performance.  In particular, management utilizes consolidated adjusted property EBITDA to compare the operating profitability of our operations with those of our competitors, as well as a basis for determining certain 54 incentive compensation.  Integrated Resort companies have historically reported adjusted property EBITDA as a supplemental performance measure to GAAP financial measures.  In order to view the operations of their properties on a more stand-alone basis, Integrated Resort companies, including Las Vegas Sands Corp., have historically excluded certain expenses that do not relate to the management of specific properties, such as pre-opening expense, development expense and corporate expense, from their adjusted property EBITDA calculations.  Consolidated adjusted property EBITDA should not be interpreted as an alternative to income from operations (as an indicator of operating performance) or to cash flows from operations (as a measure of liquidity), in each case, as determined in accordance with GAAP.  We have significant uses of cash flow, including capital expenditures, dividend payments, interest payments, debt principal repayments and income taxes, which are not reflected in consolidated adjusted property EBITDA.  Not all companies calculate adjusted property EBITDA in the same manner.  As a result, our presentation of consolidated adjusted property EBITDA may not be directly comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies. (a) During the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, the Company recorded stock-based compensation expense of $70 million and $27 million, respectively, of which $37 million and $15 million, respectively, was included in corporate expense in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. (2) The Las Vegas Operating Properties are classified as a discontinued operation.  We completed the sale on February 23, 2022.  Financial results are for the period through February 22, 2022. Adjusted property EBITDA at our Macao operations decreased $662 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2021.  The decrease was primarily due to decreased casino, mall and room revenues, driven by decreased visitation at our properties as tighter border and travel restrictions were in place in 2022 as a result of increased COVID-19 cases in Macao and the surrounding areas. Adjusted property EBITDA at Marina Bay Sands increased $608 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2021.  The increase was primarily due to increased casino, room, food and beverage and mall operations driven by increased visitation and loosened pandemic-related restrictions implemented in April 2022. Discontinued Operation Adjusted property EBITDA at our Las Vegas Operating Properties decreased $227 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2021.  The decrease was primarily due to the current year activity representing only 53 days of operations as we completed the sale of the Las Vegas Operating properties on February 23, 2022, partially 55 offset by increased casino and room operations as Las Vegas Operating Properties operated under pre-pandemic guidelines. Interest Expense The following table summarizes information related to interest expense: Interest cost increased $70 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, resulting primarily from increases in our weighted average interest rate and weighted average total debt balance.  The weighted average debt balance increased due to draws of $1.20 billion on the SCL revolver during the year ended December 31, 2022.  Additionally, the weighted average interest rate increased primarily due to increased interest rates on the SCL revolver and the MBS credit facility in line with increases in market rates and increased interest rates on the SCL senior notes in connection with the credit rating downgrades in February and June 2022 (see "Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Note 12 — Long-Term Debt"). Other Factors Affecting Earnings Interest income was $116 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to $4 million for the year ended December 31, 2021.  This increase was primarily from the $90 million in interest income on money market funds and bank deposits driven by an increase in cash due to the sale of the Las Vegas Operating Properties and higher interest rates.  We also had $21 million in interest income from the seller financing loan in connection with the sale of the Las Vegas Operating Properties in 2022. Other expense was $9 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to $31 million during the year ended December 31, 2021.  The change was due to the fluctuation in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and pataca in connection with our U.S. dollar denominated debt held by SCL. Our income tax expense was $154 million on a loss from continuing operations before income taxes of $1.39 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022, resulting in an 11.1% effective income tax rate. This compares to a (0.3)% effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2021.  The income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2022, reflects a 17% statutory tax rate on our Singapore operations, a 21% corporate income tax rate on our U.S. operations, and a zero percent tax rate on our Macao gaming operations due to our income tax exemption in Macao.  Our U.S. operations recorded a valuation allowance on certain U.S. foreign tax credits, which we no longer expect to utilize.  Our U.S. tax expense was partially offset by a tax benefit associated with the pre-tax book losses incurred for the year ended December 31, 2022. We have had the benefit of a corporate tax exemption in Maca o, which exempts us from paying the 12% corporate income tax on profits generated by the operation of casino games, but does not apply to our non-gaming activities.  We continued to benefit from this tax exemption through December 31, 2022.  Additionally, we entered into a shareholder dividend tax agreement with the Macao government in April 2019, effective through June 26, 2022, providing an annual payment as a substitution for a 12% tax otherwise due from VML shareholders on dividend distributions paid from VML gaming profits.  In December 2022, we requested a corporate tax exemption on profits generated by the operation of casino games in Macao for the new gaming concession period effective from January 1, 2023 through December 31, 2032, or for a period of corporate tax exemption that the Chief Executive of Macao may deem more appropriate.  We are evaluating the timing of an application for a new shareholder dividend tax agreement. 56 The net loss attributable to our noncontrolling interests from continuing operations was $475 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to $315 million for the year ended December 31, 2021.  These amounts were related to the noncontrolling interest of SCL. Additional Information Regarding our Retail Mall Operations The following tables summarize the results of our mall operations on the Cotai Strip and at Marina Bay Sands for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021: ____________________ Note:    This table excludes the results of our mall operations at Sands Macao. (1)    Minimum rents include base rents and straight-line adjustments of base rents. (2)    Rent concessions were provided to tenants as a result of the COVID-19 Pandemic and the related impact on mall operations. 57 (3)    Commercial property that generates rental income is exempt from property tax for the first six years for newly constructed buildings in Cotai. If the property also qualifies for Tourism Utility Status, the property tax exemption can be extended to twelve years with effect from the opening of the property.  To date, The Venetian Macao, The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Macao, The Londoner Macao and The Parisian Macao have obtained an extended exemption.  The exemption for The Venetian Macao and The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Macao expired in August 2019 and August 2020, respectively, and the exemption for The Londoner Macao and The Parisian Macao will be expiring in December 2027 and September 2028, respectively. (4)     Mall-related expenses consist of CAM, marketing fees and other direct operating expenses, property taxes and provision for credit losses, but excludes depreciation and amortization and general and administrative costs. (5)    The amount for Marina Bay Sands of $6 million related to a grant provided by the Singapore government to lessors to support small and medium enterprises impacted by the COVID-19 Pandemic in connection with their rent obligations. It is common in the mall operating industry for companies to disclose mall net operating income ("NOI") as a useful supplemental measure of a mall's operating performance.  Because NOI excludes general and administrative expenses, interest expense, impairment losses, depreciation and amortization, gains and losses from property dispositions, allocations to noncontrolling interests and provision for income taxes, it provides a performance measure that, when compared year over year, reflects the revenues and expenses directly associated with owning and operating commercial real estate properties and the impact on operations from trends in occupancy rates, rental rates and operating costs. In the table above, we believe taking total mall revenues less mall-related expenses provides an operating performance measure for our malls.  Other mall operating companies may use different methodologies for deriving mall-related expenses.  As such, this calculation may not be comparable to the NOI of other mall operating companies. Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2020 A discussion of changes in our results of operations between 2021 and 2020 has been omitted from this Form 10-K and can be found in "Item 7 — Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2020" of the for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021. 58 Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flows — Summary Our cash flows consisted of the following: A discussion of changes in cash flows between 2021 and 2020 has been omitted from this Form 10-K and can be found in "Item 7 — Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources" of the for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021. Cash Flows — Operating Activities Table games play at our properties is conducted on a cash and credit basis, while slot machine play is primarily conducted on a cash basis.  Our rooms, food and beverage and other non-gaming revenues are conducted primarily on a cash basis and to a lesser extent as a trade receivable.  Operating cash flows are generally affected by changes in operating income, accounts receivable, gaming related liabilities and interest payments.  For the year ended December 31, 2022, cash used in operations was $944 million, an increase of $701 million compared to $243 million for the year ended December 31, 2021.  The increase in cash used for operations was primarily due to cash tax payments inclusive of, and primarily due to, the gain on sale of the Las Vegas Operations totaling $612 million,  and our Macao operations generating increased operating losses and working capital requirements due to the decrease in visitation resulting from COVID-19 travel restrictions across key China markets in 2022 and Macao experiencing COVID-19 cases at various times throughout 2022.  This cash usage was partially offset by operating cash flows provided by Marina Bay Sands due to the acceleration of visitation and elimination of restrictions in Singapore over the course of 2022. Cash Flows — Investing Activities Capital expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2022, totaled $651 million.  Included in this amount was $348 million at Marina Bay Sands in Singapore and $243 million for construction and development activities in Macao, which consisted of $175 million for The Londoner Macao, $52 million for The Venetian Macao, $9 million for The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Macao, $4 million for Sands Macao and $3 million for The Parisian Macao. Additionally, this amount included  $60 million for corporate and other. 59 Capital expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2021, totaled $828 million, including $653 million in Macao, which consisted of $551 million for The Londoner Macao, $71 million for The Venetian Macao and  $19 million for The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Macao primarily for The Grand Suites at Four Seasons, $7 million from Sands Macao, $4 million for The Parisian Macao and $1 million for Ferry and Other; $148 million at Marina Bay Sands in Singapore; and $27 million for corporate and other. Cash Flows — Financing Activities Net cash flows generated from financing activities were $6.15 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022, which was primarily attributable to the net proceeds from the sale of the Las Vegas Operating Properties of $4.89 billion and $1.20 billion from the drawdown of our SCL revolving facility.  These items were partially offset by $66 million in repayments on long-term debt and $11 million in deferred offering costs relating to obtaining LVSC Revolving Facility lender consents to consummate the Las Vegas Sale and the covenant waiver obtained on the 2018 SCL Credit Facility. Net cash flows generated from financing activities were $863 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, which was primarily attributable to net proceeds of $756 million, received from the drawdown of our SCL revolving facility, and transactions with discontinued operations.  These items were partially offset by a $131 million make-whole premium for the early redemption of the SCL senior note due 2023 and $38 million in financing costs related to the issuance of the new unsecured notes at SCL and the covenant waivers obtained on the LVSC Revolving Facility, 2018 SCL Credit Facility and 2012 Singapore Credit Facility. As of December 31, 2022, we had $2.48 billion available for borrowing under our U.S., Macao and Singapore revolving facilities, net of letters of credit.  Additionally, we had $2.74 billion available for borrowing under the 2012 Singapore Delayed Draw Term Facility to finance construction costs incurred in connection with the MBS Expansion Project. Cash Flows — Discontinued Operations Cash flows from discontinued operations for the twelve months ended December 31, 2022, were primarily attributable to $4.89 billion in net proceeds from the Las Vegas Sale, which were transferred to continuing operations. Capital Financing Overview We fund our development projects primarily through borrowings from our debt instruments (see "Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Note 12 — Long-Term Debt") and operating cash flows. On February 23, 2022, we closed the sale of our Las Vegas Operations.  At closing, we received approximately $5.05 billion in cash proceeds, before transaction costs and income taxes.  The net proceeds of approximately $4.36 billion, after working capital adjustments, transaction costs and the payment of income taxes throughout 2022, will be used for incremental liquidity and general corporate purposes, which may include capital expenditures and development activities.  In connection with the closing of the sale, we may be required to make certain payments (“Support Payments”) to OpCo.  The Support Payments are payable on a monthly basis following the closing through the year ending December 31, 2023, based upon the performance of the Las Vegas Operations relative to certain agreed upon target metrics and subject to quarterly and annual adjustments.  Our remaining payment obligations are subject to a cap equal to $250 million for the period beginning January 1, 2023 and ending December 31, 2023.  No Support Payments were made for the period post-close through December 31, 2022.  On January 31, 2023, the Company received notice from OpCo that the Contingent Lease Support Agreement had terminated pursuant to its terms and that neither party would have any further liability or obligation thereunder. Our U.S., SCL and Singapore credit facilities, as amended, contain various financial covenants, which include maintaining a maximum leverage ratio or net debt, as defined, to trailing twelve-month adjusted earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, as defined.  In September 2021, LVSC extended the amendment, pursuant to which lenders, among other things, removed LVSC’s requirement to maintain a maximum leverage ratio as of the last day of the fiscal quarter, through and including December 31, 2022.  In November 2022, SCL extended the waiver and amendment request letter, pursuant to which lenders, among other things, waived SCL’s requirement to ensure the leverage ratio does not exceed 4.0x and the interest coverage ratio is greater than 60 2.50x, through July 31, 2023.  In September 2021, MBS extended the amendment letter, pursuant to which MBS will not have to comply with the leverage or interest coverage covenants as of the last day of the fiscal quarter, through and including December 31, 2022.  Our compliance with our financial covenants for periods beyond December 31, 2022 could be affected by certain factors beyond our control, such as the impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic, including travel, quarantine and border restrictions occurring in the future.  We will pursue additional waivers to meet the required financial covenant ratios, which include a maximum leverage ratio of 4.0x, 4.0x and 4.5x under our U.S., Macao and Singapore credit facilities, respectively, for periods beyond December 31, 2022 for LVSC and MBS and July 31, 2023 for SCL, if deemed necessary.  We believe we will be successful in obtaining the additional waivers, although no assurance can be provided that such waivers will be granted, which could negatively impact our ability to be in compliance with our debt covenants for periods beyond December 31, 2022 for LVSC and MBS and July 31, 2023 for SCL.  The 2018 SCL Credit Facility expires on July 31, 2023; however, we believe we will be successful in extending the maturity date of the facility prior to its expiration.  If we are unable to extend the maturity date or refinance the 2018 SCL Credit Facility, we would be required to seek alternative forms of capital to repay the outstanding balance and our available liquidity may be reduced. On January 30, 2023, LVSC entered into the Fourth Amendment with lenders to the LVSC Revolving Credit Agreement.  Pursuant to the Fourth Amendment, the existing LVSC Revolving Credit Agreement was amended to (a) determine consolidated adjusted EBITDA on a year-to-date annualized basis during the period commencing on the effective date and ending on and including December 31, 2023, as follows: (i) for the fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2023, consolidated adjusted EBITDA for such fiscal quarter multiplied by four, (ii) for the fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2023, consolidated adjusted EBITDA for such fiscal quarter and the immediately preceding fiscal quarter multiplied by two, and (iii) for the fiscal quarter ending September 30, 2023, consolidated adjusted EBITDA for such fiscal quarter and the two immediately preceding fiscal quarters, multiplied by four-thirds; (b) extend the period during which LVSC is required to maintain a specified amount of minimum liquidity as of the last day of each month to December 31, 2023; and (c) extend the period during which LVSC is unable to declare or pay any dividend or other distribution, unless liquidity is greater than $1.0 billion on a pro forma basis after giving effect to such dividend or distribution, to December 31, 2023. Any defaults under our debt agreements would allow the lenders, in each case, to exercise their rights and remedies as defined under their respective agreements.  If the lenders were to exercise their rights to accelerate the due dates of the indebtedness outstanding, there can be no assurance we would be able to repay or refinance any amounts that may become due and payable under such agreements, which could force us to restructure or alter our operations or debt obligations. We held unrestricted cash and cash equivalents of $6.31 billion and restricted cash of $125 million as of December 31, 2022, of which approximately $2.57 billion of the unrestricted amount is held by non-U.S. subsidiaries.  Of the $2.57 billion, approximately $2.06 billion is available to be repatriated, either in the form of dividends or via intercompany loans or advances, to the U.S., subject to levels of earnings, cash flow generated from gaming operations and various other factors, including dividend requirements to third-party public stockholders in the case of funds being repatriated from SCL, compliance with certain local statutes, laws and regulations currently applicable to our subsidiaries and restrictions in connection with their contractual arrangements.  We do not expect withholding taxes or other foreign income taxes to apply should these earnings be distributed in the form of dividends or otherwise. We believe the cash on hand and cash flow generated from operations, as well as the $2.48 billion available for borrowing under our U.S., Macao and Singapore credit facilities, net of outstanding letters of credit, and SGD 3.69 billion (approximately $2.74 billion at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2022) under the 2012 Singapore Delayed Draw Term Facility, as of December 31, 2022 (only available for draws after the construction cost estimate and construction schedule for the MBS Expansion Project have been delivered to the lenders), will be sufficient to maintain compliance with the financial covenants of our credit facilities and fund our working capital needs, committed and planned capital expenditures, development opportunities and debt obligations.  In the normal course of our activities, we will continue to evaluate global capital markets to consider future opportunities for enhancements of our capital structure.  During the year ended December 31, 2022, SCL drew down $114 million and HKD 8.50 billion (approximately $1.09 billion at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2022) under the SCL revolving facility for general corporate purposes. 61 We have suspended our quarterly dividend program beginning in April 2020, and SCL suspended its dividend payments after paying its interim dividend for 2019 on February 21, 2020. We believe we have a strong balance sheet and sufficient liquidity in place, including access to available borrowing capacity under our credit facilities.  We also believe we are well positioned to support our continuing operations, complete the major construction projects underway, meet our commitments under the Macao Concession and respond to the current COVID-19 Pandemic challenges.  We have taken various mitigating measures to manage through the current environment, including a cost and capital expenditure reduction program to minimize cash outflow for non-essential items. Share Repurchase Program In June 2018, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of $2.50 billion of our outstanding common stock, which was to expire in November 2020.  In October 2020, our Board of Directors authorized the extension of the expiration date of the remaining repurchase amount of $916 million to November 2022 and in October 2022, our Board of Directors authorized the further extension of the expiration date of the remaining repurchase amount of  $916 million to November 2024.  During the year ended December 31, 2022, no shares of our common stock were repurchased under this program.  All share repurchases of our common stock have been recorded as treasury stock.  Repurchases of our common stock are made at our discretion in accordance with applicable federal securities laws in the open market or otherwise.  The timing and actual number of shares to be repurchased in the future will depend on a variety of factors, including our financial position, earnings, cash flows, legal requirements, other investment opportunities and market conditions. Aggregate Indebtedness and Other Contractual Obligations Our total long-term indebtedness and other contractual obligations are summarized below as of December 31, 2022: _______________________ (1) As of December 31, 2022, we had a $100 million liability related to uncertain tax positions.  We do not expect this liability to result in a payment of cash within the next 12 months.  We are unable to reasonably 62 estimate the timing of the liability in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions; therefore, such amounts are not included in the table. (2) See "Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Note 12 — Long-Term Debt" for further details on these financing transactions and "Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Note 16 — Leases" for further details on finance leases. (3) Other debt consists of finance leases, including imputed interest, and other financed purchased obligations, including the related interest. (4) Based on the 1-month rate as of December 31, 2022, Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR") of 4.30%, Hong Kong Inter-Bank Offer Rate (“HIBOR”) of 4.35% and Singapore Swap Offer Rate ("SOR") of 2.53% , plus the applicable interest rate spread in accordance with the respective debt agreements. (5) In addition to the amounts listed in the table above, under the Macao Concession, we have committed to spend 30.24 billion patacas (approximately $3.77 billion at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2022) through 2032 on both capital and operating projects, including 27.80 billion patacas (approximately $3.46 billion at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2022) in non-gaming projects.  We will be required to increase our investment in non-gaming projects by up to 20% in the following year subject to a trigger, namely if Macao’s annual market gross gaming revenue achieves or exceeds 180 billion patacas (approximately $22.42 billion at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2022).  The 20% increase is subject to a deduction of 4% per year if the revenue trigger occurs on or after 2028 (the sixth year of the term of the Concession).  This potential additional investment is estimated to be approximately $700 million.  As the exact timing of this spend has not been finalized, these amounts have not been included in the table above. We are also required to pay a 35% gross gaming revenue special gaming tax and a 5% gross gaming revenue contribution in Macao, which amounts we pay are variable in nature. Under the Concession, however, we are obligated to pay a special annual gaming premium if the average of the gross gaming revenues of our gaming tables and our electrical or mechanical gaming machines, including slot machines, is lower than a certain minimum amount determined by the Macao government; such special premium being the difference between the gaming tax based on the actual gross gaming revenues and that of the specified minimum amount.  Based on the maximum number of gaming tables and gaming machines we are currently authorized to operate, if the monthly special gaming taxes paid during the year aggregates to less than 4.50 billion patacas (approximately $561 million at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2022), we would be required to pay the difference as the special annual gaming premium. (6) We are required to pay an annual premium with a fixed portion and a variable portion, which is based on the number and type of gaming tables and gaming machines we operate.  Based on the gaming tables and gaming machines (which is at the maximum number of tables and machines currently allowed by the Macao government) in operation as of January 1, 2023, the annual premium payable to the Macao government is approximately $41 million for the years ending December 31, 2023 through December 31, 2027, respectively, and $203 million in aggregate thereafter through the termination of the Concession in December 2032. (7) Under the Handover Record, we are required to make annual payments of 750 patacas per square meter for the first three years and 2,500 patacas per square meter for the following seven years (approximately $93 and $311, respectively, at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2022).  The annual payment of 750 patacas per square meter will be adjusted with the Macao average price index of the corresponding preceding year for years two and three and the annual payment of 2,500 patacas per square meter will be adjusted with the Macao average price index of the corresponding preceding year for years five through ten. (8) We are party to certain operating leases for real estate, which primarily include $319 million related to long-term land leases in Macao with an anticipated lease term of 50 years and $16 million related to a long-term land lease in Las Vegas with a 40-year lease term.  See "Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Note 16 — Leases" for further details on operating leases. 63 (9) Mall deposits consist of refundable security deposits received from mall tenants. (10) Primarily consists of all other non-cancellable contractual obligations and primarily relates to certain hotel management and service agreements, as described below.  The amounts exclude open purchase orders with our suppliers that have not yet been received as these agreements generally allow us the option to cancel, reschedule and adjust terms based on our business needs prior to the delivery of goods or performance of services.  Some of our hotel properties operate pursuant to management agreements with various experienced third-party hotel operators (management companies), whereby the management company controls the day-to-day operations of each of these hotels, and we are granted limited approval rights with respect to certain of the management company’s actions.  The non-cancelable period of our management agreements ranges from 14 to 40 years with various extension provisions and some with early termination options.  Each management company receives a base management fee, generally a percentage of revenue as defined.  There are also monthly fees for certain support services and some also include incentive fees based on attaining certain financial thresholds. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have not entered into any transactions with special purpose entities, nor have we engaged in any derivative transactions other than foreign currency swaps.  Refer to "Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Note 11 — Derivative Instruments" for outstanding foreign currency swaps as of December 31, 2022. Restrictions on Distributions We are a parent company with limited business operations.  Our main asset is the stock and ownership interests of our subsidiaries.  Certain of our debt instruments contain restrictions that, among other things, limit the ability of certain subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness, issue disqualified stock or equity interests, pay dividends or make other distributions, repurchase equity interests or certain indebtedness, create certain liens, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, enter into certain mergers or consolidations or sell certain of our assets without prior approval of the lenders or noteholders. Under the Concession, although not a restriction, we have to provide a five-day prior notification to the Macao government for any major financial decisions exceeding 10% of the share capital of VML. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements made pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements include the discussions of our business strategies and expectations concerning future operations, margins, profitability, liquidity and capital resources.  In addition, in certain portions included in this report, the words: “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “seeks,” “expects,” “plans,” “intends” and similar expressions, as they relate to our Company or management, are intended to identify forward-looking statements.  Although we believe these forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you any forward-looking statements will prove to be correct.  These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors beyond our control, which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These factors include, among others, the risks associated with: • the uncertainty of the extent, duration and effects of the COVID-19 Pandemic and the response of governments and other third parties, including government-mandated property closures, increased operational regulatory requirements or travel restrictions, on our business, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and development prospects; • our ability to maintain our Concession in Macao and gaming license in Singapore; • our ability to invest in future growth opportunities; • the ability to execute our previously announced capital expenditure programs in Singapore, and produce future returns; 64 • general economic and business conditions internationally, which may impact levels of disposable income, consumer spending, group meeting business, pricing of hotel rooms and retail and mall tenant sales; • disruptions or reductions in travel and our operations due to natural or man-made disasters, pandemics, epidemics or outbreaks of infectious or contagious diseases, political instability, civil unrest, terrorist activity or war; • the uncertainty of consumer behavior related to discretionary spending and vacationing at our Integrated Resorts in Macao and Singapore; • the extensive regulations to which we are subject and the costs of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations; • new developments and construction projects and ventures, including development at our existing properties (for example, development at our Cotai Strip properties and the MBS Expansion Project); • regulatory policies in China or other countries in which our patrons reside, or where we have operations, including visa restrictions limiting the number of visits or the length of stay for visitors from China to Macao, restrictions on foreign currency exchange or importation of currency, and the judicial enforcement of gaming debts; • the possibility that the laws and regulations of mainland China become applicable to our operations in Macao and Hong Kong; • the possibility that economic, political and legal developments in Macao adversely affect our Macao operations, or that there is a change in the manner in which regulatory oversight is conducted in Macao; • our leverage, debt service and debt covenant compliance, including the pledge of certain of our assets (other than our equity interests in our subsidiaries) as security for our indebtedness and ability to refinance our debt obligations as they come due or to obtain sufficient funding for our planned, or any future, development projects; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates, and the possibility of increased expense as a result; • increased competition for labor and materials due to planned construction projects in Macao and Singapore and quota limits on the hiring of foreign workers; • our ability to compete for limited management and labor resources in Macao and Singapore, and policies of those governments may also affect our ability to employ imported managers or labor from other countries; • our dependence upon properties primarily in Macao and Singapore for all of our cash flow and the ability of our subsidiaries to make distribution payments to us; • the passage of new legislation and receipt of governmental approvals for our operations in Macao and Singapore and other jurisdictions where we are planning to operate; • the ability of our insurance coverage to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer and the potential for our insurance costs to increase in the future; • our ability to collect gaming receivables from our credit players; • the collectability of our outstanding loan receivable; • our dependence on chance and theoretical win rates; • fraud and cheating; • our ability to establish and protect our intellectual property rights; • reputational risk related to the license of certain of our trademarks; • the possibility that our securities may be prohibited from being traded in the U.S. securities market under the Holding Foreign Companies Accountable Act; 65 • conflicts of interest that arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors and officers of SCL; • government regulation of the casino industry (as well as new laws and regulations and changes to existing laws and regulations), including gaming license regulation, the requirement for certain beneficial owners of our securities to be found suitable by gaming authorities, the legalization of gaming in other jurisdictions and regulation of gaming on the internet; • increased competition in Macao, including recent and upcoming increases in hotel rooms, meeting and convention space, retail space, potential additional gaming licenses and online gaming; • the popularity of Macao and Singapore as convention and trade show destinations; • new taxes, changes to existing tax rates or proposed changes in tax legislation; • the continued services of our key officers; • any potential conflict between the interests of our Principal Stockholders and us; • labor actions and other labor problems; • our failure to maintain the integrity of our information and information systems or comply with applicable privacy and data security requirements and regulations could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business; • the completion of infrastructure projects in Macao; • limitations on the transfers of cash to and from our subsidiaries, limitations of the pataca exchange markets and restrictions on the export of the renminbi; • the outcome of any ongoing and future litigation; and • potential negative impacts from environmental, social and governance and sustainability matters. All future written and verbal forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section.  New risks and uncertainties arise from time to time, and it is impossible for us to predict these events or how they may affect us.  Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.  We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements after the date of this report as a result of new information, future events or developments, except as required by federal securities laws. Investors and others should note we announce material financial information using our investor relations website (https://investor.sands.com), our company website, SEC filings, investor events, news and earnings releases, public conference calls and webcasts.  We use these channels to communicate with our investors and the public about our company, our products and services, and other issues. In addition, we post certain information regarding SCL, a subsidiary of Las Vegas Sands Corp. with ordinary shares listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, from time to time on our company website and our investor relations website. It is possible the information we post regarding SCL could be deemed to be material information. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires our management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities.  These estimates and judgments are based on historical information, information currently available to us and on various other assumptions management believes to be reasonable under the circumstances.  Actual results could vary from those estimates and we may change our estimates and assumptions in future evaluations.  Changes in these estimates and assumptions may have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  We believe the critical accounting policies discussed below affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. 66 Provision for Expected Credit Losses We maintain a provision for expected credit losses on casino, hotel and mall receivables and regularly evaluate the balances.  We apply standard reserve percentages to aged account balances, which are grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics and days past due.  The reserve percentages are based on estimated loss rates supported by historical observed default rates over the expected life of the receivable and are adjusted for forward-looking information.  We also specifically analyze the collectability of each account with a balance over a specified dollar amount, based upon the age of the account, the customer's financial condition, collection history and any other known information and adjust the aforementioned reserve with the results from the individual reserve analysis.  We also monitor regional and global economic conditions and forecasts, which include the impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic, in our evaluation of the adequacy of the recorded reserves. During the year ended December 31, 2022, there continued to be a delay in payments on casino receivables due to the inability of patrons to travel to our properties or to accomplish financial transactions due to the travel restrictions caused by the COVID-19 Pandemic.  The collection of casino receivables has also been impacted by liquidity issues faced by certain patrons also stemming from the COVID-19 Pandemic.  We have increased the provision for credit losses where appropriate to account for the expected credit losses due to the COVID-19 Pandemic.  We continue to closely monitor any delays in payments due to the COVID-19 Pandemic and will increase the provision accordingly depending on the facts and circumstances.  Although we believe the provision on our casino receivables is adequate as of December 31, 2022, it is possible our provisions could increase if we experience further delays on payments from patrons. Account balances are written off against the provision when we believe it is probable the receivable will not be recovered.  Credit or marker play was 9.8% and 15.8% of table games play at our Macao properties and Marina Bay Sands, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2022.  Our provision for casino credit losses was 61.6% and 72.5% of gross casino receivables as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.  The credit extended to gaming promoters can be offset by the commissions payable to said gaming promoters, which is considered in the establishment of the provision for credit losses.  Our provision for credit losses from our hotel and other receivables is not material. Litigation Accrual We are subject to various claims and legal actions.  We estimate the accruals for these claims and legal actions based on all relevant facts and circumstances currently available and include such accruals in other accrued liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets when it is determined such contingencies are both probable and reasonably estimable. Property and Equipment As of December 31, 2022, we had net property and equipment of $11.45 billion, representing 52.0% of our total assets.  We depreciate property and equipment on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.  The estimated useful lives are based on the nature of the assets as well as current operating strategy and legal considerations, such as contractual life.  Future events, such as property expansions, property developments, new competition or new regulations, could result in a change in the manner in which we use certain assets requiring a change in the estimated useful lives of such assets.  The estimated useful lives of assets are periodically reviewed and adjusted as necessary on a prospective basis. For assets to be held and used (including projects under development), fixed assets are reviewed for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist.  If an indicator of impairment exists, we first group our assets with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities (the "asset group").  Secondly, we estimate the undiscounted future cash flows directly associated with and expected to arise from the completion, use and eventual disposition of such asset group.  We estimate the undiscounted cash flows over the remaining useful life of the primary asset within the asset group.  If the undiscounted cash flows exceed the carrying value, no impairment is indicated.  If the undiscounted cash flows do not exceed the carrying value, then an impairment is measured based on fair value compared to carrying value, with fair value typically based on a discounted cash flow model.  If an asset is still under development, future cash flows include remaining construction costs. 67 To estimate the undiscounted cash flows of our asset groups, we consider all potential cash flows scenarios, which are probability weighted based on management's estimates given current conditions.  Determining the recoverability of our asset groups is judgmental in nature and requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including estimated cash flows, probability weighting of potential scenarios, costs to complete construction for assets under development, growth rates and future market conditions, among others.  Future changes to our estimates and assumptions based upon changes in macro-economic factors, regulatory environments, operating results or management's intentions may result in future changes to the recoverability of our asset groups. For assets to be held for sale, the fixed assets (the "disposal group") are measured at the lower of their carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell.  Losses are recognized for any initial or subsequent write-down to fair value less costs to sell, while gains are recognized for any subsequent increase in fair value less costs to sell, but not in excess of the cumulative loss previously recognized.  Any gains or losses not previously recognized that result from the sale of the disposal group shall be recognized at the date of sale. Fixed assets are not depreciated while classified as held for sale. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. (including federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions in which we operate.  We record income taxes under the asset and liability method, whereby deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized based on the future tax consequences attributable to temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and attributable to operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Our foreign and U.S. tax rate differential reflects the fact that U.S. tax rates are higher than the statutory tax rates in Singapore and Macao of 17% and 12%, respectively.  In August 2018, we received an exemption from Macao's corporate income tax on profits generated by the operation of casino games of chance for the period of January 1, 2019 through June 26, 2022.  In September 2022, we received an additional extension of this exemption for the period June 27, 2022 through December 31, 2022.  Additionally, we entered into an agreement with the Macao government in April 2019, effective through June 26, 2022, providing for payments as a substitution for a 12% tax otherwise due from VML shareholders on dividend distributions paid from VML gaming profits, namely a payment of 38 million patacas (approximately $5 million at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2022) for each of the years 2021 and 2020, each payment to be made on or before January 31 of the following year, and a payment of 18 million patacas (approximately $2 million at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2022) for the period between January 1, 2022 through June 26, 2022, to be paid on or before July 26, 2022.  In December 2022, we requested a corporate tax exemption on profits generated by the operation of casino games in Macao for the new Concession period effective from January 1, 2023 through December 31, 2032, or for a period of corporate tax exemption that the Chief Executive of Macao may deem more appropriate.  We are evaluating the timing of an application for a new shareholder dividend tax agreement. There is no certainty either of these tax arrangements will be granted. Accounting standards regarding income taxes require a reduction of the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance, if based on the available evidence, it is "more-likely-than-not" such assets will not be realized.  Accordingly, the need to establish valuation allowances for deferred tax assets is assessed at each reporting period based on a "more-likely-than-not" realization threshold.  This assessment considers, among other matters, the nature, frequency and severity of current and cumulative losses, forecasts of future profitability, the duration of statutory carryforward periods, our experience with operating loss and tax credit carryforwards not expiring and tax planning strategies. We recorded a valuation allowance on the net deferred tax assets of certain foreign jurisdictions of $475 million and $416 million as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, and a valuation allowance on certain net deferred tax assets of our U.S. operations of $3.61 billion and $4.62 billion as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Management will reassess the realization of deferred tax assets each reporting period and consider the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, sources of taxable income and tax planning strategies.  To the extent the financial results of these operations improve and it becomes "more-likely-than-not" the deferred tax assets are realizable, we will be able to reduce the valuation allowance in the period such determination is made, as appropriate. 68 Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.  Accounting standards regarding uncertainty in income taxes provides a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions.  The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates it is "more-likely-than-not" the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any.  The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely, based solely on the technical merits, of being sustained on examinations.  We recorded unrecognized tax benefits of $136 million as of December 31, 2022 and 2021. We consider many factors when evaluating and estimating our tax positions and tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and for which actual outcomes may be different. Our major tax jurisdictions are the U.S., Macao, and Singapore.  We could be subject to examination for tax years beginning in 2018 in Macao and Singapore and tax years 2010 through 2015 and 2019 through 2021 in the U.S. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See related disclosure at "Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Note 2 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies — Recent Accounting Pronouncements."