********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Our business is subject to various risks and uncertainties. Any of the risks and uncertainties described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and should be considered in evaluating us. Although the risks are organized by heading, and each risk is described separately, many of the risks are interrelated. While we believe we have identified and discussed below the material risks affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know or that we do not currently believe to be material that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations in the future. ​ 11 Business and Operating Risks ​ Pandemics or other contagious outbreaks and government actions taken in response thereto, may adversely impact, and in the case of the COVID-19 pandemic, have adversely impacted and are likely to continue to adversely impact, our business, financial condition, and results of operations. ​ The ultimate impact that the COVID-19 pandemic and any future pandemic or other contagious outbreak will have on our business, financial condition, and results of operations is uncertain. To date, the efforts by national, state and local governments worldwide to control the spread of COVID-19 have resulted in widespread measures aimed at containing the disease such as quarantines, travel bans, shutdowns, and shelter-in-place or stay-at-home orders, which have significantly restricted the movement of people and goods. These restrictions and measures, and our efforts to act in the best interests of our employees, customers, suppliers, vendors, and joint venture and other business partners, have affected and are continuing to affect our business and operations. Some of the impacts our business has experienced, is experiencing and may experience as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, or any future pandemic or other contagious outbreak, include, but are not limited to, the following: ​ 12 ​ These impacts have caused, and are expected to continue to cause, changes in the mix of products sold, decreases in revenue, and increases in costs resulting in decreased profitability and cash flows from operations, which have caused, and are expected to continue to cause, an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations that may be material. Although government restrictions have been reduced or lifted, the negative impact on consumer traffic may continue to some degree because restaurants and other foodservice venues may be required to operate at reduced capacities and consumers may fear gathering in public places. In addition, resurgences of COVID-19 infections after restrictions are lifted could cause governments to impose new or stricter closures, limits on capacity or social distancing requirements. These restrictions could cause consumer demand for food away from home to decline. While we have experienced increased demand for our retail products, that increase in demand cannot entirely offset the decrease in demand from our foodservice customers. Further, retail demand may gradually decline as consumers begin to shift purchases of fries to dining at restaurants as governments lift social restrictions. We cannot predict whether and to what extent changes in consumer food purchasing behavior will persist even after the threat of the COVID-19 pandemic has been eliminated or how those changes would affect our business. ​ COVID-19 has disrupted, and the spread of pandemics or other contagious outbreaks may also disrupt, our customers, suppliers, vendors and joint venture and other business partners, and each of their financial conditions. Any material adverse effect on these parties could adversely impact us. In this regard, the potential duration and impacts of pandemics or other contagious outbreaks such as the COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy and on our business, financial condition, and results of operations are difficult to predict and cannot be estimated with any degree of certainty, but the pandemic has resulted in significant disruption of global financial markets, increases in levels of unemployment and economic uncertainty, which has adversely impacted our business and may continue to do so. These developments have and may continue to lead to significant negative impacts on customer spending, demand for our products, the ability of our customers to pay, our financial condition and the financial condition of our suppliers. ​ The impact of COVID-19 may also exacerbate other risks discussed in this Form 10-K. The ultimate impact depends on the severity and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and actions taken by governmental authorities and other third parties in response, each of which is uncertain, rapidly changing and difficult to predict. Any of these disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. ​ Our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or interruptions or other constraints in the availability of key commodities and other necessary services. ​ A significant portion of our cost of goods comes from commodities such as raw potatoes, edible oil, and energy. These commodities are subject to price volatility and fluctuations in availability caused by many factors, including changes in global supply and demand, weather conditions (including any potential effects of climate change), fire, natural disasters (such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake, wildfire or flooding), disease or pests, agricultural uncertainty, water stress, health epidemics or pandemics or other contagious outbreaks, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, governmental incentives and controls (including import/export restrictions, such as new or increased tariffs, sanctions, quotas or trade barriers), limited or sole sources of supply, political uncertainties, acts of terrorism, governmental instability, or currency exchange rates. Despite our ability to source raw materials necessary to meet demand for our products, certain ingredients and packaging, including edible oils and other commodities have been adversely impacted by shortages during the COVID-19 pandemic. Although we are unable to predict the impact to our ability to source these materials in the future, we expect these supply pressures to continue in the near future. In addition, we also incur expenses in connection with the transportation and delivery of our products. Due to disruptions related to COVID-19 in our production facilities, we have experienced increases in transportation and warehousing costs. Commodity price increases, or a sustained interruption or other constraints in the supply or availability of key commodities, including necessary services such as transportation and warehousing, have increased and may continue to increase our operating costs and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. During fiscal 2021, as a result of the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, we were not able to, and in the future, we may not be able to, increase our product prices and achieve cost savings that fully offset these increased costs; and increasing prices may result in reduced sales volume and decreased profitability. 13 There is currently no active derivatives market for potatoes in the United States. Although we have experience in hedging against commodity price increases, these practices and experience reduce, but do not eliminate, the risk of negative profit impacts from commodity price increases. As a result, the risk management procedures that we use may not always work as we intend. ​ Our future success and earnings growth depend in part on our ability to maintain the appropriate cost structure and operate efficiently in the highly competitive value-added frozen potato product category. We continue to implement profit-enhancing initiatives that improve the efficiency of our supply chain and general and administrative functions. These initiatives are focused on cost-saving opportunities in procurement, manufacturing, logistics, and customer service, as well as general and administrative functions. However, gaining additional efficiencies may become more difficult over time. ​ In addition, we may have significant supply chain disruptions due to a number of factors outside of our control, including public health crises such as the COVID-19 pandemic, which has disrupted production and increased transportation and warehousing costs. These factors may lead to our inability to access or deliver products that meet requisite quality and safety standards in a timely and efficient manner, which have led and could lead to in the future increased warehouse and other storage costs. Our failure to reduce costs through productivity gains or the elimination of redundant costs, or the occurrence of a significant supply chain disruption or the inability to access or deliver products, could adversely affect our profitability and weaken our competitive position or otherwise harm our business. ​ Changes in our relationships with our growers could adversely affect us. ​ We expend considerable resources to develop and maintain relationships with many potato growers. In some instances, we have entered into long-term agreements with growers; however, a large portion of our potato needs are typically sourced on an annual contracted basis. To the extent we are unable to maintain positive relationships with our long-term growers, contracted growers deliver less supply than we expect, or we are unable to secure sufficient potatoes from uncontracted growers in a given year, we may not have sufficient potato supply to satisfy our business opportunities. To obtain sufficient potato supply, we may be required to purchase potatoes at prices substantially higher than expected, or forgo sales to some market segments, which would reduce our profitability. If we forgo sales to such market segments, we may lose customers and may not be able to regain or replace them later. ​ Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected by the political and economic conditions of the countries in which we conduct business and other factors related to our international operations, including foreign currency risks and trade barriers. ​ We conduct a substantial and growing amount of business with customers located outside the United States, including through our joint ventures. During each of fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, net sales outside the United States, primarily in Australia, Canada, China, Japan, Korea, Mexico, and Taiwan, accounted for approximately 20% of our net sales. These amounts do not include any impact of unconsolidated net sales associated with our joint ventures, which are also subject to risks associated with international operations. ​ Many factors relating to our domestic and international sales and operations, many of which are outside of our control, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, including: 14 ​ Any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. ​ Changes in our relationships with significant customers could adversely affect us. ​ We maintain a diverse customer base across our four reporting segments. Customers include global, national and regional quick service and fast casual restaurants as well as small, independently operated restaurants, multinational, broadline foodservice distributors, regional foodservice distributors, and major food retailers. Some of these customers independently represent a meaningful portion of our sales. In addition, we depend on foodservice distributors to help us create end-customer demand, provide technical support and other value-added services to customers, fill customer orders, and stock our products. A material change in our relationship with one or more of these distributors or their failure to perform as expected could reduce our revenue. The foodservice distributors also sell products that compete with our products, and we sometimes need to reduce prices or provide rebates and other incentives to focus them on the sale of our products. While we contract annually or biannually with many of our foodservice customers, the loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in sales to a significant customer could materially impact our business. ​ Our largest customer, McDonald’s Corporation, accounted for approximately 11% of our consolidated net sales in fiscal 2021 and 10% of our consolidated net sales in both fiscal 2020 and 2019. There can be no assurance that our customers will continue to purchase our products in the same quantities or on the same terms as in the past. The loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in sales to a significant customer could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, the financial condition of our significant customers, including restaurants, distributors and retailers, are affected by events that are largely beyond our control, such as the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and possible future pandemics or other contagious outbreaks. Deterioration in the financial condition of significant customers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. ​ 15 Disruption of our access to export mechanisms could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. ​ To serve our customers globally, we rely in part on our international joint venture partnerships, but also on exports from the United States. During fiscal 2021, 2020, and 2019, export sales from the United States accounted for approximately 13%, 16% and 16%, respectively, of our total net sales. Circumstances beyond our control, such as a labor dispute at a port or workforce disruption due to the COVID-19 pandemic or future pandemics or other contagious outbreaks, could prevent us from exporting our products in sufficient quantities to meet customer opportunities. We have access to production outside of the United States through our facilities in Australia, Canada and China and joint ventures in Argentina and Europe, but we may be unsuccessful in mitigating any future disruption to export mechanisms. If this occurs, we may be unable to adequately supply all of our existing customers’ needs and new customer opportunities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our operations are dependent on a wide array of third parties. ​ The success of our end-to-end supply chain relies on the continued performance of a wide array of third parties. Suppliers, co-packers, third-party outsourcers, warehousing partners, and transportation providers are among our critical partners. Although we take steps to qualify and audit third parties with whom we do business, we cannot guarantee that all third parties will perform dependably or at all. It is possible that events beyond our control, such as operational failures, labor issues, cybersecurity events, pandemics or other health issues, such as COVID-19, or other issues could impact our unaffiliated third parties. If our third parties fail to deliver on their commitments, introduce unplanned risk to our operations (e.g., through cyber activity), or are unable to fulfill their obligations, we could experience manufacturing challenges, shipment delays, increased costs, or lost revenue, which could also impact our relationships with customers and our brand image. ​ In addition to our own manufacturing facilities, we source a portion of our products under co-packing agreements. The success of our business depends, in part, on maintaining a strong sourcing and manufacturing platform. We believe that there are a limited number of competent, high-quality co-packers in the industry, and if we were required to obtain additional or alternative co-packing agreements or arrangements in the future, we can provide no assurance that we would be able to do so on satisfactory terms or in a timely manner. Our inability to enter into satisfactory co-packing agreements could limit our ability to implement our business plan or meet customer demand. ​ A portion of our business is, and several of our growth strategies are, conducted through joint ventures that do not operate solely for our benefit. ​ We have built our company, in part, through the creation of joint ventures, some of which we do not control. In these relationships, we share ownership and management of a company that operates for the benefit of all owners, rather than our exclusive benefit. Through our extensive experience in operating a portion of our business through joint ventures, we understand that joint ventures often require additional resources and procedures for information sharing and decision-making. If our joint venture partners take actions that have negative impacts on the joint venture, or disagree with the strategies we have developed to grow these businesses, we may have limited ability to influence and mitigate those actions or decisions and our ability to achieve our growth strategies may be negatively impacted. ​ Damage to our reputation as a trusted partner to customers and good corporate citizen could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. ​ Our customers rely on us and our co-manufacturers to manufacture safe, high quality food products. Product contamination or tampering, the failure to maintain high standards for product quality, safety, and integrity, or allegations of product quality issues, mislabeling or contamination, even if untrue, may damage the reputation of our customers, and ultimately our reputation as a trusted industry partner. Damage to either could reduce demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. ​ Our reputation could also be adversely impacted by any of the following, or by adverse publicity (whether or not valid) relating thereto: the failure to maintain high ethical, social, and environmental standards for our operations and activities, including the health, safety and security of our employees; our research and development efforts; our 16 environmental impact, including use of agricultural materials, packaging, energy use, and waste management; our failure to comply with local laws and regulations; our failure to maintain an effective system of internal controls; or our failure to provide accurate and timely financial information. Damage to our reputation or loss of customer confidence in our products for any of these or other reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. ​ If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business could be materially and adversely affected. ​ Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain personnel with professional and technical expertise, such as agricultural and food manufacturing experience, as well as finance, marketing, and other senior management professionals. The loss of the services of these persons could deplete our institutional knowledge and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The market for these employees is competitive, and we could experience difficulty from time to time in hiring and retaining the personnel necessary to support our business. If we do not succeed in retaining our current employees, attracting new high-quality employees, and developing adequate training and succession plans for leadership positions, our business could be materially and adversely affected. ​ If we are unable to complete potential acquisitions that strategically fit our business objectives, integrate acquired businesses, or execute on large capital projects, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. ​ From time to time, we evaluate acquisition candidates that may strategically fit our business objectives. Our acquisition activities may present financial, managerial, and operational risks. Those risks include: (i) diversion of management attention from existing businesses, (ii) difficulties integrating personnel and financial and other systems, (iii) difficulties implementing effective control environment processes, (iv) adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, (v) inaccurate estimates of fair value made in the accounting for acquisitions and amortization of acquired intangible assets, which would reduce future reported earnings, (vi) potential loss of customers or key employees of acquired businesses, and (vii) indemnities and potential disputes with the sellers. If we are unable to complete acquisitions or successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses or execute on large capital projects, such as new production lines or facilities, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. ​ Our results could be adversely impacted as a result of increased pension, labor and people-related expenses. ​ Inflationary pressures and any shortages in the labor market could increase labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our labor costs include the cost of providing employee benefits in the United States and foreign jurisdictions, including pension, health and welfare, and severance benefits. Changes in interest rates, mortality rates, health care costs, early retirement rates, investment returns, and the market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our defined benefit plans and cause volatility in the future funding requirements of the plans. A significant increase in our obligations or future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows from operations. Additionally, the annual costs of benefits vary with increased costs of health care and the outcome of collectively-bargained wage and benefit agreements. ​ Our substantial debt may limit cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business and could prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. ​ We have incurred substantial indebtedness. As of May 30, 2021, we had $2,737.4 million of long-term debt, including current portion, recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Our level of debt could have important consequences. For example, it could: ​ 17 ​ The agreements governing our debt contain various covenants that impose restrictions on us that may affect our ability to operate our business. ​ The credit agreements governing our term loans and revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our senior notes contain covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to: ​ These restrictions on our ability to operate our business could harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other corporate opportunities. ​ Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in our existing or future financing agreements could result in a default under those agreements and under other agreements containing cross-default provisions. A default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements and to foreclose upon any collateral securing the debt. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations. Also, the limitations imposed by these financing agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. ​ In addition, the restrictive covenants in our credit agreements require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. We cannot provide assurance that we will continue to be in compliance with these ratios and tests. Our ability to continue to meet those financial ratios and tests will depend on our ongoing financial and operating performance, which, in turn, will be subject to economic conditions and to financial, market, and competitive factors, many of which are beyond our control. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under one or more of our debt instruments, including as a result of cross default provisions and, in the case of our revolving credit facility, permit the lenders thereunder to cease making loans to us. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. Such action by the lenders could cause cross-defaults under our senior notes indentures. ​ Any failure to meet required payments on our debt, or failure to comply with any covenants in the instruments governing our debt, could result in a downgrade to our credit ratings. A downgrade in our credit ratings could limit our access to capital and increase our borrowing costs. Further, under the terms of the tax matters agreement we entered into with Conagra at the spinoff, we may not retire, repurchase, or significantly modify our senior notes due 2024 and 2026 during the five-year period following the spinoff, which period ends on November 9, 2021. ​ 18 Technology Risks ​ We are significantly dependent on information technology, and we may be unable to protect our information systems against service interruption, misappropriation of data, or breaches of security. ​ We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic and financial information, to manage and support a variety of business processes and activities, and to comply with regulatory, legal, and tax requirements. We also depend upon our information technology infrastructure for digital marketing activities and for electronic communications among our locations, personnel, customers, third-party manufacturers and suppliers. The importance of such networks and systems has increased due to many of our employees working remotely as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, which in turn has heightened our vulnerability to cyberattacks or other disruptions. Despite careful security and controls design, implementation and updating, independent third-party verification and regular training of employees on information security and data protection, our information technology systems, some of which are dependent on services provided by third parties, may be vulnerable to, among other things, damage, invasions, disruptions, or shutdowns due to any number of causes such as catastrophic events, natural disasters, infectious disease outbreaks and other public health crises, fires, power outages, systems failures, telecommunications failures, security breaches, computer viruses, ransomware and malware, hackers, employee error or malfeasance, and other causes. While we have experienced threats to our data and systems, to date, we are not aware that we have experienced a material breach. However, over time, and particularly recently, the sophistication of these threats continues to increase. Sophisticated cybersecurity threats pose a potential risk to the security and viability of our information technology systems, as well as the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the data stored on those systems, including cloud-based platforms. In addition, new technology that could result in greater operational efficiency may further expose our computer systems to the risk of cyber-attacks. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure and associated automated and manual control processes, we could be subject to billing and collection errors, business disruptions, or damage resulting from security breaches. If any of our significant information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption, or shutdown and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected, and we could experience delays in reporting our financial results. Any interruption of our information technology systems could have operational, reputational, legal, and financial impacts that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. ​ In addition, if we are unable to prevent security breaches or unauthorized disclosure of non-public information, we may suffer financial and reputational damage, litigation or remediation costs, fines, or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our partners, customers or suppliers. ​ Misuse, leakage, or falsification of information could result in violations of data privacy laws and regulations, potentially significant fines and penalties, damage to our reputation and credibility, loss of strategic opportunities, and loss of ability to commercialize products developed through research and development efforts and, therefore, could have a negative impact on net sales. In addition, we may face business interruptions, litigation, and financial and reputational damage because of lost or misappropriated confidential information belonging to us, our current or former employees, or to our suppliers or customers, and may become subject to legal action and increased regulatory oversight. We could also be required to spend significant financial and other resources to remedy the damage caused by a security breach or to repair or replace networks and information systems. ​ Problems with the transition, design, or implementation of our new enterprise resource planning system could interfere with our business and operations and adversely affect our financial condition. ​ We are in the process of implementing a new ERP system to replace our existing operating and financial systems. The ERP system is designed to accurately maintain our financial records, enhance operational functionality, and provide timely information to our management team related to the operation of the business. The ERP system implementation process has required, and will continue to require, the investment of significant personnel and financial resources. While we have completed the first phase of our new ERP system implementation, we paused subsequent phases due to the uncertainty caused by COVID-19. We are preparing to resume the next phase of the ERP implementation in fiscal 2022. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, difficulties as we transition to new upgraded systems and processes. 19 These difficulties have and may include loss of data; difficulty in making payments to third-parties; difficulty in completing financial reporting and filing reports with the SEC in a timely manner; or challenges in otherwise running our business. We may also experience decreases in productivity as our personnel implement and become familiar with new systems and processes. Any disruptions, delays, or deficiencies in the transition, design, and implementation of a new ERP system, particularly any disruptions, delays, or deficiencies that impact our operations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Even if we do not encounter adverse effects, the transition, design, and implementation of a new ERP system, may be much more costly than we anticipated. ​ Industry Risks ​ Our business relies on a potato crop that has a concentrated growing region. ​ Ideal growing conditions for the potatoes necessary for our value-added products (e.g., french fries) are concentrated in a few geographic regions globally. In the United States, most of the potato crop used in value-added products is grown in Washington, Idaho, and Oregon. European growing regions for the necessary potatoes are concentrated in Austria, Belgium, Germany, France, the Netherlands, Russia, and the United Kingdom. Recent agronomic developments have opened new growing regions, but the capital-intensive nature of our industry’s production processes has kept production highly concentrated in the historical growing regions noted above. Unfavorable crop conditions in any one region could lead to significant demand on the other regions for production, which occurred in connection with the drought in Europe during fiscal 2019. Our inability to mitigate any such conditions by leveraging our production capabilities in other regions could negatively impact our ability to meet existing customers’ needs and new customer opportunities and could decrease our profitability. ​ Our business is affected by potato crop performance. ​ Our primary input is potatoes and every year, we must procure potatoes that meet the quality standards for processing into value-added products. Environmental and climate conditions, such as soil quality, moisture, and temperature, affect the yield and quality of the potato crop on a year-to-year basis. As a result, we source potatoes from specific regions of the United States and specific countries abroad, including Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, China, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Russia, and the United Kingdom, where we believe the optimal potato growing conditions exist. However, severe weather conditions, including protracted periods of extreme heat or cold, during the planting and growing season in these regions can significantly affect potato crop performance, such as the drought in Europe during our fiscal year 2019 that resulted in poor crop and significantly limited supply. Potatoes are also susceptible to pest diseases and insects that can cause crop failure, decreased yields, and negatively affect the physical appearance of the potatoes. We have deep experience in agronomy and actively work to monitor the potato crop. However, if a weather or pest-related event occurs in a particular crop year, and our agronomic programs are insufficient to mitigate the impacts thereof, we may have insufficient potatoes to meet our existing customers’ needs and new customer opportunities, and our competitiveness and profitability could decrease. Alternatively, overly favorable growing conditions can lead to high per acre yields and over-supply. An increased supply of potatoes could lead to overproduction of finished goods and associated increased storage costs or destruction of unused potatoes at a loss. ​ The sophistication and buying power of some of our customers could have a negative impact on profits. ​ Some of our customers are large and sophisticated, with buying power and negotiating strength. These customers may be more capable of resisting price increases and more likely to demand lower pricing, increased promotional programs, or specialty tailored products. In addition, some of these customers (e.g., larger distributors and supermarkets) have the scale to develop supply chains that permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own brands. Shelf space at food retailers is not guaranteed, and large retail customers may choose to stock their own retailer and other economy brands that compete with some of our products. This could be exacerbated with a shift in consumer spending as a result of an economic downturn and consumers moving to private label or lower priced products. If the initiatives we undertake to counteract these pressures, including efficiency programs and investments in innovation and quality, are unsuccessful and we are unable to counteract the negotiating strength of these customers, our profitability could decline. ​ 20 Increased competition may result in reduced sales or profits. ​ Our business, value-added frozen potato products, is highly competitive. Competitors include large North American and European frozen potato product companies that compete globally, local and regional companies, and retailers and foodservice distributors with their own branded and private label products. Some of our competitors are larger and have substantial financial, sales and marketing, and other resources. We compete based on, among other things, customer service, value, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, price, and the ability to identify and satisfy customer preferences. A strong competitive response from one or more of our competitors to our marketplace efforts could result in us reducing pricing, increasing spend on promotional activity, or losing market share. For example, private label pricing has become more competitive recently as European competitors have increased their presence in the United States, as they leverage their excess production capacity due to decreased demand following government-imposed COVID-related social restrictions. Competitive pressures may restrict our ability to increase prices, including in response to commodity and other input cost increases or additional improvements in product quality. Our profits could decrease if a reduction in prices or increased costs are not counterbalanced with increased sales volume. ​ Increased industry capacity may result in reduced sales or profits. ​ In recent years, market demand for value-added frozen potato products has exceeded industry capacity to produce these products. As additional industry capacity comes online, or market demand otherwise decreases, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic or future pandemics or other contagious outbreaks, we may face competitive pressures that would restrict our ability to increase or maintain prices, or we may lose market share. For example, during fiscal 2021, we faced increased pricing pressure for private label products due to excess production capacity in Europe that resulted from decreased demand following government-imposed COVID-related social restrictions. Our profits would decrease as a result of a reduction in prices or sales volume. ​ We must identify changing consumer preferences and consumption trends and develop and offer food products to our customers that help meet those preferences and trends. ​ Consumer preferences evolve over time and our success depends on our ability to identify the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and offer products that appeal to those preferences. We need to continue to respond to these changing consumer preferences and support our customers in their efforts to evolve to meet those preferences. For example, as consumers focus on freshly prepared foods, some restaurants may choose to limit the frying capabilities of their kitchens. As a result, we must evolve our product offering to provide alternatives that work in such a preparation environment. In addition, our products contain carbohydrates, sodium, genetically modified ingredients, added sugars, saturated fats, and preservatives, the diet and health effects of which remain the subject of public scrutiny. We must continue to reformulate our products, introduce new products and create product extensions without a loss of the taste, texture, and appearance that consumers demand in value-added potato products. All of these efforts require significant research and development and marketing investments. If our products fail to meet consumer preferences or customer requirements, or we fail to introduce new and improved products on a timely basis, then the return on those investments will be less than anticipated, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. ​ In addition, we compete against branded products as well as private label products. Our products must provide higher value and/or quality to our customers and consumers than alternatives, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty. Consumers may not buy our products if relative differences in value and/or quality between our products and private label products change in favor of competitors’ products or if consumers perceive this type of change. If consumers prefer private label products, which are typically sold at lower prices, then we could lose market share or sales volumes or shift our product mix to lower margin offerings. During an economic downturn, factors such as increased unemployment, decreases in disposable income and declines in consumer confidence could cause a decrease in demand for our overall product offerings, particularly higher priced products, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Distributors, restaurants and retailers may also become more conservative in response to these conditions and seek to reduce their inventories. A change in consumer preferences could also cause us to increase capital, marketing, and other expenditures, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. ​ 21 Legal and Regulatory Risks ​ We may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls, which could negatively impact our relationships with customers and harm our business. ​ We sell food products for human consumption, which involves risks such as product contamination or spoilage, product tampering, other adulteration of food products, mislabeling, and misbranding. We may voluntarily recall or withdraw products from the market in certain circumstances, which would cause us to incur associated costs; those costs could be meaningful. We may also be subject to litigation, requests for indemnification from our customers, or liability if the consumption or inadequate preparation of any of our products causes injury, illness, or death. A significant product liability judgment or a widespread product recall may negatively impact our sales and profitability for a period of time depending on the costs of the recall, the destruction of product inventory, product availability, competitive reaction, customer reaction, and consumer attitudes. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image. ​ Additionally, as a manufacturer and marketer of food products, we are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other national, state and local government agencies. The Food, Drug & Cosmetic Act, the Food Safety Modernization Act, other laws and their respective regulations govern, among other things, the manufacturing, composition and ingredients, packaging and safety of food products. Some aspects of these laws use a strict liability standard for imposing sanctions on corporate behavior, meaning that no intent is required to be established. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls, or seizures, as well as criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. ​ New regulations imposed by the FDA or EFSA around acrylamide formation in potato products could adversely affect us. ​ The regulation of food products, both within the United States and internationally, continues to be a focus for governmental scrutiny. The presence and/or formation of acrylamide in potato products cooked at high temperatures has become a global regulatory issue as both the FDA and the European Food Safety Authority (‘‘EFSA’’) have issued guidance to the food processing industry to work to reduce conditions that favor the formation of this naturally occurring compound. Acrylamide formation is the result of heat processing reactions that give ‘‘browned foods’’ their desirable flavor. Acrylamide formation occurs in many food types in the human diet, including but not limited to breads, toast, cookies, coffee, crackers, potatoes, and olives. The regulatory approach to acrylamide has generally been to encourage the industry to achieve as low as reasonably achievable content levels through process control (e.g., temperature) and material testing (e.g., low sugar and low asparagine). However, limits for acrylamide exposure have been established in the State of California, and point of sale consumer warnings are required if products exceed those limits. In addition, the EFSA has promulgated regulations establishing specific mitigation measures, sampling and analysis procedures and benchmark levels for acrylamide in certain food products. If the global regulatory approach to acrylamide becomes more stringent and additional legal limits are established, our manufacturing costs could increase. In addition, if consumer perception regarding the safety of our products is negatively impacted due to regulation, sales of our products could decrease. ​ If we fail to comply with the many laws and regulations applicable to our business, we may face lawsuits or incur significant fines and penalties. ​ Our facilities and products are subject to many laws and regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the FDA, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and other federal, state, local, and foreign governmental agencies relating to the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling, quality, and safety of food products, and the health and safety of our employees. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to additional costs, product detentions, substantial delays or a temporary shutdown in manufacturing, lawsuits, administrative penalties, and civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, and recalls of our products. ​ 22 Our operations are also subject to extensive and increasingly stringent regulations administered by foreign government agencies, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and comparable state agencies, which pertain to the protection of human health and the environment, including, but not limited to, the discharge of materials into the environment and the handling and disposition of wastes. Failure to comply with these regulations can have serious consequences, including civil and administrative penalties and negative publicity. Changes in applicable laws or regulations or evolving interpretations thereof, including increased government regulations to limit the emissions of toxic air pollutants and carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions as a result of concern over climate change, may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures, and other financial obligations for us, which could affect our profitability or impede the production or distribution of our products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. ​ Climate change, or legal, regulatory, or market measures to address climate change, may negatively affect our business and operations. ​ There is growing concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns, the frequency and severity of extreme weather, and natural disasters. In the event that climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as potatoes and edible oils. In addition, water is an important part of potato processing. In times of water stress, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water, which could impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. Further, a decrease in the availability of water in certain regions caused by droughts or other factors could increase competition for land and resources in areas that have more favorable growing conditions, and thereby increase costs for such land and resources. ​ The increasing concern over climate change also may result in more regional, federal, and/or global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases, as well as more stringent regulation of water rights. In the event that such regulation is enacted and is more aggressive than the sustainability measures that we are currently undertaking to monitor our emissions, improve our energy efficiency, and reduce and reuse water, we may be subject to curtailment or reduced access to resources or experience significant increases in our costs of operation and delivery. As a result, climate change could negatively affect our business and operations. ​ Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. ​ We consider our intellectual property rights to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of trademark, patent, copyright and trade secret protection, contractual agreements and policing of third-party misuses of our intellectual property. Our failure to obtain or adequately protect our intellectual property or any change in law that lessens or removes the current legal protections of our intellectual property may diminish our competitiveness and adversely affect our business and financial results. We also license certain intellectual property, most notably Grown in Idaho and Alexia , from third parties. To the extent that we are not able to contract with these third parties on favorable terms or maintain our relationships with these third parties, our rights to use certain intellectual property could be impacted. ​ Competing intellectual property claims that impact our brands or products may arise unexpectedly. Any litigation or disputes regarding intellectual property may be costly and time-consuming and may divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development, launch and sale of certain products. Any of these occurrences may harm our business and financial results. ​ Litigation could expose us to significant costs and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. ​ We are, or may become, party to various lawsuits and claims arising in the ordinary course of business, which may include lawsuits or claims relating to commercial liability, product recalls, product liability, product claims, 23 employment matters, environmental matters, intellectual property, or other aspects of our business. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and although we may believe we have meaningful defenses in these matters, we may incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The costs of responding to or defending litigation may be significant and may divert the attention of management away from our strategic objectives. There may also be adverse publicity associated with litigation that may decrease customer confidence in our business, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable. As a result, litigation may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. ​ General Risks ​ There are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of our controls. ​ We do not expect that our disclosure controls or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. The design of a control system must reflect the fact that resource constraints exist, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Further, because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. For example, during fiscal 2019, we identified a material weakness in internal control related to information technology general controls and as a result, concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of May 26, 2019. Although we implemented remedial measures and concluded the material weakness had been remediated as of May 31, 2020, there is no assurance these remedial measures will continue to be effective or that we may not later identify other material weaknesses in internal controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of controls to future periods are subject to risks. Over time, controls may become inadequate due to changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. If our controls become inadequate, we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, our reputation may be adversely affected, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected, and the market price of our stock could decline. ​

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

​ The following discussion and analysis is intended to provide a summary of significant factors relevant to our financial performance and condition. The discussion and analysis should be read together with our consolidated financial statements and related notes in “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K. Results for the fiscal year ended May 30, 2021 are not necessarily indicative of results that may be attained in the future. ​ The following generally discusses fiscal 2021 and 2020 items and fiscal year comparisons between fiscal 2021 and 2020. Discussions of fiscal 2019 items and fiscal year comparisons between fiscal 2020 and 2019 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in “Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2020, which we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 28, 2020 . ​ The fiscal years for the Consolidated Financial Statements presented consist of a 52-week period for fiscal 2021 and a 53-week period for fiscal 2020. ​ Overview ​ Lamb Weston, along with our joint venture partners, is a leading global producer, distributor, and marketer of value-added frozen potato products. We, along with our joint venture partners, are the number one supplier of value-added frozen potato products in North America. We, along with our joint venture partners, are also a leading supplier of value-added frozen potato products internationally, with a strong and growing presence in high-growth emerging markets. We, along with our joint venture partners, offer a broad product portfolio to a diverse channel and customer base in over 100 countries. French fries represent the majority of our value-added frozen potato product portfolio. ​ On November 9, 2016, we separated from Conagra and became an independent publicly traded company through the pro rata distribution by Conagra of 100% of our outstanding common stock to Conagra stockholders. In connection with the Separation, Conagra transferred substantially all of the assets and liabilities and operations of the Lamb Weston business to us. ​ Management’s discussion and analysis of our results of operations and financial condition, which we refer to in this filing as “MD&A,” is provided as a supplement to the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Form 10-K to help provide an understanding of our financial condition, changes in financial condition and results of our operations. Our MD&A is based on financial data derived from the financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and certain other financial data (including product contribution margin on a consolidated basis, Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”), Adjusted EBITDA including unconsolidated joint ventures, and Adjusted Diluted EPS) that is prepared using non-GAAP financial measures. Refer to “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below for the definitions of product contribution margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA including unconsolidated joint ventures and Adjusted Diluted EPS, and a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to gross profit, net income or diluted earnings per share. ​ Executive Summary ​ In fiscal 2021, we navigated the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operations and global frozen potato demand, demonstrating the strength and resilience of our employees in a challenging environment. Throughout the pandemic, our primary focus and attention has been directed towards the health and well-being of our employees and contractors, while continuing to support our customers and to invest in our manufacturing, supply chain, commercial and information technology operations to meet our long-term strategic objectives. 28 Our fiscal 2021 financial performance reflects the negative impact on frozen potato demand in our food-away-from-home sales channels. While demand and shipment trends sequentially improved during the year in our food-away-from-home sales channels, shipments to restaurants and other foodservice outlets were below pre-pandemic levels. The pandemic also significantly disrupted manufacturing and distribution operations across all industries, including ours, which resulted in higher costs. As a result, our sales and earnings in fiscal 2021 declined as compared to fiscal 2020, which included the benefit of an additional week (“53 rd week”) of sales, earnings and cash flow. Specifically: ​ ​ Compared with fiscal 2020, the decline in net sales was driven by lower sales volume. Our sales volume declined largely due to demand for frozen potato products outside the home falling after government-imposed social restrictions to slow the spread of COVID-19 reduced restaurant traffic and included restrictions for on-premise dining. The decline in sales volume was most pronounced in our Foodservice segment, which has a higher proportion of its sales to on-premise dining establishments, including independent restaurants and non-commercial operations, such as lodging and hospitality, healthcare, schools and universities, sports and entertainment, and workplace environments. The decline in sales volumes in our Global segment was less pronounced as consumers leveraged drive-thru, carry-out and delivery options at quick service restaurants in the U.S. In our Retail segment, which sells products for food-at-home consumption, sales volume for our branded products was strong, but this was more than offset by lower sales volume of private label products resulting from losses of certain low-margin business. Overall, our sales volume decline was partially offset by higher price/mix, which was largely due to favorable pricing in our Foodservice segment and favorable mix in our Retail segment, while price/mix in our Global segment was flat. ​ In Europe, which is served by our Lamb-Weston/Meijer joint venture, sales volumes also declined as demand fell following government-imposed social restrictions. Although a high percentage of our sales are to quick service restaurants, unlike the U.S., most consumption in Europe is dine-in or carry-out as drive-thru options are more limited. As a result, the effect of government-imposed restrictions on french fry demand in Europe was similar to what we observed for full-service restaurants operations in the U.S. ​ Overall international sales volumes, which are included in our Global segment, varied by market. While demand in many of our key markets improved as fiscal 2021 progressed, the rate of improvement generally lagged that in the U.S. In addition, our exports were hindered by pandemic-related congestion at U.S. West Coast ports as well as the availability of shipping containers. ​ Income from operations declined due to lower sales, higher manufacturing and distribution costs, and higher selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses . The increase in costs was largely due to incremental costs resulting from the pandemic’s disruptive effect on our production, transportation, and warehousing operations, including costs to address the safety and welfare of our employees and costs associated with a tighter labor market due to COVID-19 related absenteeism and labor-related restrictions. The COVID-19 environment also caused freight rates to increase due to tighter capacity and stronger demand in the trucking and cargo container markets resulting from higher shipping volume of products. We also experienced higher input cost inflation, particularly for edible oils because of low supply as well as higher demand for raw materials by alternative end markets, such as biofuels. Despite these challenges, we continued to invest in our supply chain operations, and completed the initial phase of our new ERP system, which we expect will benefit our operations over the long term. We also announced capital expansions in the U.S. and China, and with our joint venture in Europe, announced expansions in Russia and the Netherlands. ​ We generated full-year cash from operations of $553.2 million and cash flow after investing activities, including information technology initiatives, of $390.7 million. Given the significant economic uncertainty, we took prudent and early actions to reinforce and enhance our financial strength (see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in this MD&A for more information). We ended the year with $783.5 million of cash and cash equivalents and no borrowings on our 29 revolving credit facility. In addition, we returned $161.0 million to our stockholders, through a combination of dividends and share repurchases. ​ Outlook ​ We remain committed to prioritizing the health and well-being of our employees and contractors, to supporting our customers, and to maintaining our financial strength as the pandemic continues to impact the global economy. In fiscal 2022, while the degree of the impact of the pandemic on our business remains uncertain, we believe its effect on global frozen potato demand will continue to lessen as vaccination rates increase in the U.S. and our key international markets and as governments continue to ease social restrictions in their respective jurisdictions. We believe this will likely have a favorable impact on restaurant traffic, especially for full-service restaurants and other operations that have traditionally relied on on-premise dining, as well as for other non-commercial operations, such as hotels, schools and universities, and sporting venues. In the U.S., by the end of fiscal 2021, we saw shipments to large chain restaurants as well as in our Foodservice segment, in aggregate, approach pre-pandemic levels as more governments eased social restrictions. Accordingly, we continue to believe that overall frozen potato demand may approach pre-pandemic levels, on a run-rate basis, by the end of the calendar year. ​ However, we expect the ongoing effects of the pandemic and the rapid resurgence of the broader economy will pressure and disrupt our global supply chain operations in the near-term, which will result in volatile operating conditions and incremental manufacturing and distribution costs. In addition, in fiscal 2022, we expect the rate of inflation for many of our manufacturing, commodity and distribution costs, including, but not limited to edible oils, rail, trucking, ocean freight, and packaging, will increase compared to what we experienced in fiscal 2021. We expect to increase the selling price of our products to offset, in whole or in part, these higher costs. ​ We expect overall SG&A to be higher as a result of increased compensation and benefits expense largely resulting from inflation, as well as continued investments to improve our manufacturing, supply chain, commercial and information technology operations over the long term. This includes resuming our efforts to implement the next phase of a new ERP system, which we deferred due to the disruptive impact of the pandemic on our operations, as well as the significant number of employees working remotely. ​ While the near-term impact of the pandemic on sales volume and costs is volatile, we believe we have sufficient liquidity to manage through the uncertainty, and remain focused on our business and plans to drive long-term value creation. ​ Results of Operations ​ We have four reportable segments: Global, Foodservice, Retail, and Other. We report net sales and product contribution margin by segment and on a consolidated basis. Product contribution margin, when presented on a consolidated basis, is a non-GAAP financial measure. Net sales and product contribution margin are the primary measures reported to our chief operating decision maker for purposes of allocating resources to our segments and assessing their performance. Product contribution margin represents net sales less cost of sales and advertising and promotion expenses. Product contribution margin includes advertising and promotion expenses because those expenses are directly associated with the performance of the Company’s segments. For additional information on our reportable segments and product contribution margin, see “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below and Note 14, Segments, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Form 10-K. ​ 30 Fiscal Year Ended May 30, 2021 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended May 31, 2020 (dollars in millions) ​ Net Sales and Product Contribution Margin ​ ​ Net Sales ​ Lamb Weston’s net sales for fiscal 2021 declined $121.5 million, or 3%, to $3,670.9 million, compared with $3,792.4 million in fiscal 2020. Volume declined 6% while price/mix increased 3%. Net sales and volume declined 2% and 6%, respectively, excluding the benefit of the 53 rd week in the prior year. The decline in sales volume reflected soft demand for much of the first three fiscal quarters following government-imposed pandemic-related social restrictions, including on restaurants and other foodservice operations. Sales volumes increased in the fiscal fourth quarter due to a recovery in demand, as well as a comparison to reduced shipments in the prior year quarter when customers were destocking inventories as they adjusted to the abrupt change in the business environment. The increase in price/mix was driven primarily by favorable pricing in our Foodservice segment and favorable mix in our Retail segment, while price/mix in our Global segment was flat. ​ Global net sales declined $62.1 million, or 3%, to $1,911.5 million, compared with $1,973.6 million in fiscal 2020. Volume declined 3% while price/mix was flat. Net sales and volume each declined 2% excluding the benefit of the 53 rd week in the prior year. Sales volumes in the first half of the year declined as compared to the prior year, but largely stabilized beginning in the fiscal third quarter behind strength in shipments to large, quick service chain restaurant customers in the U.S. Sales volumes for the segment increased in the fiscal fourth quarter due to a recovery in demand in the U.S. and in our key international markets, as well as a comparison to reduced shipments in the prior year quarter when customers were destocking inventories. Price/mix was flat as positive pricing actions were offset by unfavorable customer mix. ​ Foodservice net sales declined $51.8 million, or 5%, to $1,017.3 million, compared with $1,069.1 million in fiscal 2020. Volume declined 12% while price/mix increased 7%. Net sales and volume declined 4% and 11%, respectively, excluding the benefit of the 53 rd week in the prior year. Sales volumes during the first three quarters of the year declined as compared to the prior year as demand at full-service restaurants and non-commercial customers were significantly affected by government-imposed social restrictions. Sales volumes for the segment increased in the fiscal fourth quarter due to a recovery in most of the segment’s customer channels, as well as a comparison to reduced shipments in the prior year quarter when customers were destocking inventories. The increase in price/mix primarily reflected the carryover benefit of pricing actions implemented during fiscal 2020, partially offset by unfavorable mix as sales of Lamb Weston branded and premium products softened during the height of the pandemic. ​ 31 Retail net sales increased $7.9 million, or 1%, to $603.4 million, compared with $595.5 million in fiscal 2020. Price/mix increased 5% while volume declined 4%. Excluding the benefit of the 53 rd week in the prior year, net sales increased 4% and volume declined 2%. The increase in price/mix was largely driven by favorable mix from higher sales of premium and mainstream branded offerings. The decline in sales volumes reflected lower shipments of private label products resulting from incremental losses of certain low-margin business, partially offset by strong growth in branded products, which have historically comprised approximately 40 percent of the segment’s volume. In addition, the sales volume decline reflects a comparison to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020 which included a surge in demand for in-home consumption of frozen potato products following government-imposed social restrictions. ​ Net sales in our Other segment declined $15.5 million, or 10%, to $138.7 million, compared with $154.2 million in fiscal 2020. The decline primarily reflects lower volume in our vegetable business, partially offset by favorable price/mix. ​ Gross Profit and Product Contribution Margin ​ Gross profit declined $63.2 million, or 7%, to $832.0 million in fiscal 2021. The decline was driven by lower sales and higher manufacturing and distribution costs on a per pound basis, which largely included: incremental costs and inefficiencies related to the pandemic’s disruptive effect on our production, transportation, and warehousing operations; and input and transportation cost inflation. The increase in costs was partially offset by supply chain productivity savings. In addition, gross profit included a $40.4 million change in unrealized mark-to-market adjustments and realized settlements associated with commodity hedging contracts, which reflects a $37.9 million gain in the current year, compared with a $2.5 million loss related to these items in the prior year. ​ Lamb Weston’s overall product contribution margin in fiscal 2021 declined $58.0 million, or 7%, to $814.2 million, compared with $872.2 million in fiscal 2020. The decline was driven by lower sales and higher manufacturing and distribution costs, as described above. ​ Global segment product contribution margin declined $68.3 million, or 18%, to $306.2 million in fiscal 2021. Higher manufacturing and distribution costs, as well as lower sales volumes, largely drove the decline. Global segment cost of sales was $1,601.4 million, up 1% compared to fiscal 2020, as higher manufacturing and distribution costs were largely offset by the impact of lower sales volumes. Advertising and promotion spending declined $2.4 million in fiscal 2021, as compared to fiscal 2020. ​ Foodservice product contribution margin declined $16.0 million, or 4%, to $340.0 million in fiscal 2021. Lower sales volumes and higher manufacturing and distribution costs more than offset the benefit of favorable price/mix. Cost of sales was $672.4 million, down 5% compared to fiscal 2020, due to lower sales volumes, partially offset by higher manufacturing and distribution costs. Advertising and promotion spending declined $2.3 million in fiscal 2021, as compared with fiscal 2020. ​ Retail product contribution margin increased $2.6 million, or 2%, to $120.2 million in fiscal 2021. Favorable product mix and a $0.4 million decrease in advertising and promotion spending more than offset the impact of higher manufacturing and distribution costs and lower sales volumes of private label products. Cost of sales was $474.3 million, up 1% compared to fiscal 2020, primarily due to higher manufacturing and distribution costs, partially offset by lower sales volumes. ​ Other product contribution margin increased $23.7 million to $47.8 million in fiscal 2021, as compared to $24.1 million in fiscal 2020. These amounts include a $27.8 million gain related to unrealized mark-to-market adjustments and realized settlements associated with commodity hedging contracts, and a $0.2 million loss related to the contracts in fiscal 2020. Excluding these mark-to-market adjustments, Other segment product contribution margin declined $4.3 million, largely due to higher manufacturing costs and lower sales volumes in our vegetable business. ​ Selling, General and Administrative Expenses ​ SG&A expenses were $357.2 million, up $18.9 million, or 6%, in fiscal 2021 compared with fiscal 2020. The increase was largely driven by investments to improve our manufacturing, supply chain, commercial and information 32 technology operations over the long term, and included approximately $9 million of non-recurring expenses (primarily consulting and employee training expenses) associated with implementing the first phase of a new ERP system, compared to approximately $8 million in the prior year. The increase in SG&A was also driven by higher compensation and benefits expense, partially offset by a $5.2 million decline in A&P expense, as well as by cost management efforts. ​ Interest Expense, Net ​ Interest expense, net was $118.3 million in fiscal 2021, an increase of $10.3 million compared with fiscal 2020. The increase in interest expense, net was the result of a higher level of average total debt versus the prior year resulting from our actions in late fiscal 2020 and early fiscal 2021 to enhance our liquidity position during the pandemic. For more information, see Note 8, Debt and Financing Obligations, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Form 10-K. ​ Income Taxes ​ Our effective tax rate was 22.2% for fiscal 2021, compared to 23.5% in fiscal 2020. The difference between our effective tax rates in fiscal 2021 and 2020 is primarily due to permanent differences and discrete items. Our effective tax rate varies from the U.S. statutory tax rate of 21% principally due to the impact of U.S. state taxes, foreign taxes, permanent differences, and discrete items. ​ For further information on income taxes, see Note 3, Income Taxes, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Form 10-K. ​ Equity Method Investment Earnings ​ We conduct meaningful business through unconsolidated joint ventures and include our share of the earnings based on our economic ownership interest in them. Lamb Weston’s share of earnings from its equity method investments was $51.8 million and $29.3 million for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively. Earnings in fiscal 2020 included a $2.6 million loss related to the withdrawal from a multiemployer pension plan by Lamb Weston RDO. Equity method investment earnings also included an $11.3 million unrealized gain related to mark-to-market adjustments associated with currency and commodity hedging contracts in fiscal 2021 and a $6.3 million loss related to these items in fiscal 2020. In addition, in December 2020, Lamb-Weston/Meijer increased its ownership interest in its Russian joint venture from 35.5% to 74.9%, and now consolidates that joint venture in its results. ​ Excluding the Lamb Weston RDO pension-related comparability item and the mark-to-market adjustments, earnings from equity method investments increased $2.3 million compared to the prior year period, largely driven by Lamb-Weston/Meijer’s increased ownership interest in its Russian joint venture and higher manufacturing costs per pound in the prior year, partially offset by lower frozen potato demand in Europe following government-imposed restrictions on restaurant and other foodservice operations. ​ Liquidity and Capital Resources ​ We ended fiscal 2021 in a strong financial position with resources available for reinvesting in our business, including our strategic growth initiatives, pursuing acquisition opportunities that we may identify, and managing our capital structure on a short-term and long-term basis. At May 30, 2021, we had $783.5 million of cash and cash equivalents and $744.6 million of availability under our revolving credit facility. ​ While we expect the near-term impact of the pandemic on sales volume and costs to remain volatile, we believe we have sufficient liquidity to meet projected capital expenditures, service existing debt and meet working capital requirements for the next 12 months with current cash balances and cash from operations, supplemented as necessary by available borrowings under our existing revolving credit facility. ​ 33 Cash Flows ​ Below is a summary table of our cash flows, followed by a discussion of the sources and uses of cash through operating, investing, and financing activities (dollars in millions): ​ ​ Operating Activities ​ During fiscal 2021, cash provided by operating activities decreased $20.8 million to $553.2 million, compared with $574.0 million in the same period a year ago. The decrease related to a $99.2 million decrease in net income, adjusted for non-cash income and expenses, partially offset by $78.4 million of cash provided by favorable changes in working capital. Lower income from operations related to government-imposed restrictions on restaurants and other foodservice operations to slow the spread of COVID-19. See “Results of Operations” in this MD&A for more information. Favorable changes in working capital primarily related to an increase in accounts payable, due to timing, and an increase in our accrued liabilities, primarily related to higher compensation and benefits accruals. This favorability was partially offset by higher finished goods inventory due to building more pounds of inventory to meet expected demand as sales began to reach pre-pandemic levels, compared with lower inventories at the end of fiscal 2020, when demand decreased due to the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as incremental costs related to rising input and other costs, higher receivables due to more sales at the end of fiscal 2021, compared with the end of fiscal 2020, and an increase in prepaid and other current assets primarily due to an increase in favorable open commodity contract hedge positions at the end of fiscal 2021, driven by a rise in edible oil prices. ​ Investing Activities ​ Investing activities used $162.5 million of cash in fiscal 2021, compared with $346.0 million in fiscal 2020. Excluding cash used for the acquisition of a frozen potato processor in Australia and for an investment in an equity method joint venture in the prior year, cash used for investing activities decreased $44.2 million, compared to fiscal 2020. The decrease represents our concerted effort to control spending at the onset of the pandemic to preserve liquidity. ​ We expect capital investments in fiscal 2022 to be approximately $650 million to $700 million, depending on timing of projects, which include among other items: completion of our chopped and formed capacity expansion in American Falls, Idaho; initial construction of a new french fry processing line and plant modernization investments in American Falls, Idaho; and initial construction of a greenfield french fry processing facility in Ulanqab, Inner Mongolia, China. These expenditures could increase or decrease as a result of a number of factors, including our financial results, future economic conditions, including the impact of COVID-19, and our regulatory compliance requirements. At May 30, 2021, we had commitments for capital expenditures of $75.0 million. ​ Financing Activities ​ We took various actions to further strengthen our liquidity position in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, which included raising over $1 billion of liquidity in the last quarter of fiscal 2020, including borrowing $495.0 million under our revolving credit facility, entering into a new $325.0 million term loan facility, and issuing $500.0 million of senior notes due in 2028. These actions also included deferring the payment of our payroll taxes as allowed under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act (“CARES”) Act. The CARES Act allows for the deferral of the payment of the employer portion of Social Security taxes accrued between March 27, 2020, and December 31, 2020. 34 Under the CARES Act, 50% of the deferred payroll taxes will be paid by December 31, 2021 and the remainder will be paid by December 31, 2022. In addition, in June 2019, we entered into a new $300.0 million term loan facility due in June 2024 and used the proceeds to repay $300.0 million of the term loan facility that was due in 2021. ​ During fiscal 2021, we repaid the $495.0 million we borrowed under our revolving credit facility at the onset of the pandemic, and we repaid $ 305.5 million of other debt and financing obligations (including the repayment of the $271.9 million term loan facility that was scheduled to mature in November 2021). We also paid $135.3 million in cash dividends to common stockholders. During fiscal 2021, we repurchased 328,918 shares of our common stock at an average price of $78.19 and withheld 164,992 shares of common stock from employees to cover income and payroll taxes on equity awards that vested during the period. As of May 30, 2021, $169.6 million remained authorized for repurchase under our share repurchase program. During fiscal 2020, we paid $121.3 million in cash dividends to common stockholders. We also repurchased 287,239 shares of our common stock at an average price of $79.56 per share and withheld 80,673 shares of common stock from employees to cover income and payroll taxes on equity awards that vested during the period. ​ We assess our financing alternatives periodically and expect to access credit or debt capital markets opportunistically, within targeted levels, as part of our plans to fund our capital programs, including capital expenditures and cash returns to stockholders through dividends and share repurchases. These transactions may include refinancing of existing debt or the incurrence of new debt, subject to financing options that may be available to us from time to time, as well as conditions in the credit and debt capital markets generally. ​ For more information about our debt, including among other items, interest rates, maturity dates, and covenants, see Note 8, Debt and Financing Obligations, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K. At May 30, 2021, we were in compliance with the financial covenant ratios and other covenants contained in our credit agreements. ​ Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements ​ We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of May 30, 2021 that are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources. ​ Investments in Joint Ventures ​ We conduct some of our business through three unconsolidated joint ventures and account for these investments using equity method accounting. For more information about our investments in joint ventures, see Note 4, Investments in Joint Ventures, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K. ​ Obligations and Commitments ​ As part of our ongoing operations, we enter into arrangements that obligate us to make future payments under contracts such as lease agreements, debt agreements, potato supply agreements, and unconditional purchase obligations (i.e., obligations to transfer funds in the future for fixed or minimum quantities of goods or services at fixed or minimum prices). The unconditional purchase obligation arrangements are entered into in the normal course of business in order to ensure adequate levels of sourced product are available. ​ 35 A summary of our contractual obligations as of May 30, 2021 are as follows (dollars in millions). The expected timing of payments of the obligations in the table are estimated based on current information. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different, depending on the time of receipt of goods or services, or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations. ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Critical Accounting Estimates ​ Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Company’s consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to our trade promotions, income taxes, and acquisitions, among others. We base our estimates on historical experiences combined with management’s understanding of current facts and circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. ​ Critical accounting estimates are those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and operating results. These estimates require management’s most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments. We review the development, selection, and disclosure of our critical accounting estimates with the Audit and Finance Committee of our Board of Directors. ​ While we have taken into account certain impacts arising from COVID-19 in connection with the accounting estimates reflected in this Form 10-K, the full impact of COVID-19 is unknown and cannot be reasonably estimated. However, we have made appropriate accounting estimates based on the facts and circumstances available as of the 36 reporting date. To the extent there are differences between these estimates and actual results, our consolidated financial statements may be affected. ​ Sales Incentives and Trade Promotion Allowances ​ We promote our products with advertising, consumer incentives, and trade promotions. Sales promotions include, but are not limited to, discounts, coupons, rebates, and volume-based incentives. The estimates for sales incentives are based principally on historical sales and redemption rates, influenced by judgments about current market conditions such as competitive activity in specific product categories. ​ Trade promotion programs include introductory marketing funds such as slotting fees, cooperative marketing programs, temporary price reductions, and other activities conducted by our customers to promote our products. The costs of these programs are recognized as a reduction to revenue with a corresponding accrued liability. The estimate of trade promotions is inherently difficult due to information limitations as the products move beyond distributors and through the supply chain to operators. Estimates made by management in accounting for these costs are based primarily on our historical experience with marketing programs, with consideration given to current circumstances and industry trends and include the following: quantity of customer sales, timing of promotional activities, current and past trade-promotion spending patterns, the interpretation of historical spending trends by customer and category, and forecasted costs for activities within the promotional programs. ​ The determination of sales incentive and trade promotion costs requires judgment and may change in the future as a result of changes in customer demand for our products, promotion participation, particularly for new programs related to the introduction of new products. Final determination of the total cost of promotion is dependent upon customers providing information about proof of performance and other information related to the promotional event. Because of the complexity of some of these trade promotions, the ultimate resolution may result in payments that are different from our estimates. As additional information becomes known, we may change our estimates. At May 30, 2021 and May 31, 2020, we had $39.9 million and $42.5 million, respectively, of sales incentives and trade promotions payable recorded in “Accrued liabilities” on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. ​ Income Taxes ​ We compute the provision for income taxes using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. We measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using the currently enacted tax rates that apply to taxable income in effect for the years in which those tax assets are expected to be realized or settled. ​ Inherent in determining the annual tax rate are judgments regarding business plans, planning opportunities, and expectations about future outcomes. Management judgments are required for the following items: ​ ​ ​ 37 ​ Acquisitions ​ From time to time, we may enter into business combinations. We allocate the total purchase price of a business combination to the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition date, with the excess purchase price recorded as goodwill. The acquisition method of accounting requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions regarding the fair values of the elements of a business combination as of the date of acquisition, including the fair values (fair value is determined using the income approach, cost approach and/or market approach) of inventory, property, plant and equipment, identifiable intangible assets, deferred tax asset valuation allowances, and liabilities related to uncertain tax positions, among others. This method also requires us to refine these estimates over a measurement period not to exceed one year to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the measurement of the amounts recognized as of that date. If we are required to retroactively adjust provisional amounts that we have recorded for the fair values of assets and liabilities in connection with acquisitions, these adjustments could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. ​ Significant estimates and assumptions in determining the fair value of brands and other identifiable intangible assets include future cash flows that we expect to generate from the acquired assets. If the subsequent actual results and updated projections of the underlying business activity change compared with the assumptions and projections used to develop these values, we could record impairment charges. In addition, we have estimated the economic lives of certain acquired assets and these lives are used to calculate depreciation and amortization expense. If our estimates of the economic lives change, depreciation or amortization expenses could increase or decrease. ​ New and Recently Adopted Accounting Standards ​ For a listing of our new and recently adopted accounting standards, see Note 1, Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K. ​ Non-GAAP Financial Measures ​ To supplement the financial information included in this report, we have presented product contribution margin on a consolidated basis, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA including unconsolidated joint ventures and Adjusted Diluted EPS, each of which is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. ​ Product contribution margin is one of the primary measures reported to our chief operating decision maker for purposes of allocating resources to our segments and assessing their performance. Product contribution margin represents net sales less cost of sales and advertising and promotion expenses. Product contribution margin includes advertising and promotion expenses because those expenses are directly associated with the performance of our segments. Our management also uses Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA including unconsolidated joint ventures and Adjusted Diluted EPS to evaluate our performance excluding the impact of certain non-cash charges and other special items in order to have comparable financial results to analyze changes in our underlying business between reporting periods. We include 38 these non-GAAP financial measures because management believes they are useful to investors in that they provide for greater transparency with respect to supplemental information used by management in its financial and operational decision making. We believe that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures, when used in conjunction with GAAP financial measures, is a useful financial analysis tool that can assist investors in assessing our operating performance and underlying prospects. These non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as alternatives for, financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures may differ from similarly titled non-GAAP financial measures presented by other companies, and other companies may not define these non-GAAP financial measures the same way. These measures are not a substitute for their comparable GAAP financial measures, such as gross profit, net income (loss) or diluted earnings per share, and there are limitations to using non-GAAP financial measures. ​ See “Results of Operations – Fiscal Year Ended May 30, 2021 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended May 31, 2020 (dollars in millions) – Net Sales and Product Contribution Margin” above for a reconciliation of product contribution margin on a consolidated basis to gross profit. ​ The following table reconciles net income to Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA including unconsolidated joint ventures. ​ ​ ​ The following table reconciles diluted earnings per share to Adjusted Diluted EPS: ​ 39