********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Our business is subject to various risks and uncertainties. Any of the risks and uncertainties described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and should be considered in evaluating us. Although the risks are organized by heading, and each risk is described separately, many of the risks are interrelated. While we believe we have identified and discussed below the material risks affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know or that we do not currently believe to be material that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations in the future. ​ Business and Operating Risks ​ Our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected by inflationary pressures, increased costs, disruption of supply or interruptions or other constraints in the availability of key commodities and other necessary services. ​ A significant portion of our cost of goods comes from commodities such as raw potatoes, edible oil, grains, starches, and energy. These commodities are subject to price volatility and fluctuations in availability caused by many factors, including: changes in global supply and demand, weather conditions (including any potential effects of climate change), fire, natural disasters (such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake, wildfire or flooding), disease or pests, agricultural uncertainty, water stress, health epidemics or pandemics or other contagious outbreaks, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, governmental incentives and controls (including import/export restrictions, such as new or increased tariffs, sanctions, quotas or trade barriers including the financial and economic sanctions imposed by the U.S. and certain foreign governments in response to the war in Ukraine), limited or sole sources of supply, inflation, political uncertainties, acts of terrorism, governmental instability, war, or currency exchange rates. Despite our ability to source raw materials necessary to meet demand for our products, certain ingredients and packaging, including edible oils, grains, starches, and other commodities, have been and may continue to be adversely impacted by shortages due to the COVID-19 pandemic, global supply chain disruptions and the war in Ukraine. Although we are unable to predict the impact to our ability to source these materials in the future, we expect these supply pressures to continue in the near future. ​ Recently, the costs of labor, raw materials, energy, fuel, packaging materials and other inputs necessary for the production and distribution of our products have rapidly increased. For example, due to reduced availability of trucking capacity and shipping containers, global supply chain issues, labor shortages and inflation, we have experienced increases in transportation and warehousing costs. Additionally, we expect to face continued industry-wide cost inflation for various inputs, including commodities, ingredients, packaging materials, other raw materials, transportation, warehousing, and labor. Commodity price increases, or a sustained interruption or other constraints in the supply or availability of key commodities, including necessary services such as transportation and warehousing, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our attempts to offset these cost pressures, such as through increases in the selling prices of some of our products, may not be successful. Higher product prices may result in reductions in sales volume. To the extent that price increases are not sufficient to offset these increased costs adequately or in a timely manner, and/or if they result in significant decreases in sales volume, our business, financial condition, or results of operations may be adversely affected. ​ We may not be able to offset any cost increases through productivity initiatives or through our commodity hedging activity. Our future success and earnings growth depend in part on our ability to maintain the appropriate cost 11 structure and operate efficiently in the highly competitive value-added frozen potato product category. We continue to implement profit-enhancing initiatives that improve the efficiency of our supply chain and general and administrative functions. These initiatives are focused on cost-saving opportunities in procurement, manufacturing, logistics, and customer service, as well as general and administrative functions. However, gaining additional efficiencies may become more difficult over time. In addition, there is currently no active derivatives market for potatoes in the U.S. Although we have experience in hedging against commodity price increases, these practices and experience reduce, but do not eliminate, the risk of negative profit impacts from commodity price increases. As a result, the risk management procedures that we use may not always work as we intend. To the extent we are unable to offset present and future cost increases, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. ​ In addition, we may have significant supply chain disruptions due to a number of factors outside of our control, including public health crises such as the COVID-19 pandemic, labor shortages, increased fuel costs, and the war in Ukraine, which have disrupted production and increased transportation and warehousing costs. These factors may lead to our inability to access or deliver products that meet requisite quality and safety standards in a timely and efficient manner, which have led and could lead to increased warehouse and other storage costs. Our failure to reduce costs through productivity gains or the elimination of redundant costs, or the occurrence of a significant supply chain disruption or the inability to access or deliver products, could adversely affect our profitability and weaken our competitive position or otherwise harm our business. ​ Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected by disruptions in the global economy caused by the war in Ukraine. ​ The global economy has been negatively impacted by increasing tensions related to the war in Ukraine. Such adverse and uncertain economic conditions have caused, and may continue to cause, supply chain disruptions and increased costs for transportation, energy, and raw materials, including edible oil, grains, and starches. Furthermore, the U.S. and certain foreign governments have imposed financial and economic sanctions on certain industry sectors and parties in Russia. We are monitoring the conflict and the potential impact of financial and economic sanctions on the regional and global economy. In addition, some of our customers, including our largest customer, McDonald’s Corporation, have exited from Russia. Further, in May 2022, our LWM joint venture announced its intent to withdraw from its joint venture that operates a production facility in Russia . As a result, LWM determined that its net investment in the joint venture was impaired and wrote-off its investment in Russia; our portion of the non-cash impairment charge was $62.7 million. ​ Increased trade barriers or restrictions on global trade also could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Though LWM intends to exit the Russian market, the destabilizing effects of the war in Ukraine could have other effects on our business. Further escalation of geopolitical tensions related to military conflict could result in loss of property, expropriation, cyberattacks, supply disruptions, plant closures and an inability to obtain key supplies and materials, as well as adversely affect our business and our supply chain, our international subsidiaries and joint ventures, business partners or customers in the broader region, including our European growing regions for potatoes. Prior to the war in Ukraine, Ukraine was one of the largest exporters of sunflower oil, which we use for our products. Supply chains that were already disrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic have been further impacted by the war in Ukraine, which has caused shortages in some raw materials, including sunflower oil, and higher prices for substitute ingredients, such as other edible oils. LWM operates processing facilities in Europe, including Austria, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. In many instances, these sites depend on the availability of natural gas for use in the production of products, which may originate from Russia. Destabilizing effects that military conflict may pose for the European continent or the global oil and natural gas markets could adversely impact LWM’s ability to operate these facilities. In addition, the effects of military conflict could heighten many of our other risks described in this Form 10-K. ​ Pandemics or other contagious outbreaks and government actions taken in response thereto, may adversely impact, and in the case of the COVID-19 pandemic, have adversely impacted and are likely to continue to adversely impact, our business, financial condition, and results of operations. ​ The ultimate impact that the COVID-19 pandemic and any future pandemic or other contagious outbreak will have on our business, financial condition, and results of operations is uncertain. While vaccines are more widely available, the presence of new variants and increasing case figures in many countries create continued uncertainty about the duration 12 and extent of the impact from the pandemic. The efforts by governmental and regulatory authorities worldwide to control the spread of COVID-19 and variants of the virus have resulted in widespread measures aimed at containing the disease such as quarantines, travel bans, shutdowns, and shelter-in-place or stay-at-home orders. Although COVID-19-related restrictions have generally been loosened or lifted, these restrictions and measures, and our efforts to act in the best interests of our employees, customers, suppliers, vendors, joint ventures, and other business partners, have affected and are continuing to affect our business and operations. Some of the impacts our business has experienced, is continuing to experience, and may experience as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, or any future pandemic or other contagious outbreak, include, but are not limited to, the following: ​ ​ These impacts have caused, and may continue to cause, changes in the mix of products sold, decreases in revenue, and increases in costs resulting in decreased profitability and cash flows from operations, which have caused, and may continue to cause, an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations that may be material. In addition, resurgences of COVID-19 variants after restrictions are lifted could cause governments to impose new or stricter closures, and limits on capacity or social distancing requirements. These restrictions could cause consumer demand for food away from home to decline. COVID-19 has disrupted, and the spread of future pandemics or other contagious outbreaks may also disrupt, our customers, suppliers, vendors and joint venture and other business partners, and each of their financial conditions. Any material adverse effect on these parties could adversely impact us. In this regard, the potential duration and impacts of pandemics or other contagious outbreaks such as the COVID-19 pandemic, including the emergence and spread of COVID-19 variants and the continued availability and effectiveness of vaccines in the markets where we operate, on the global economy and on our business, financial condition, and results of operations are difficult to predict and cannot be estimated with any degree of certainty. The pandemic has resulted in significant disruption of global financial markets, labor shortages, supply chain interruptions, increased commodity costs, inflation, and economic uncertainty, which has adversely impacted our business and may continue to do so. ​ The impact of COVID-19 may also exacerbate other risks discussed in this Form 10-K. The ultimate impact depends on the severity and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic, including the emergence and spread of variants, the 13 continued availability and effectiveness of vaccines, and actions taken by governmental authorities and other third parties in response, each of which is uncertain, rapidly changing and difficult to predict. Any of these disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. ​ Labor shortages or stoppages, an inability to attract and retain key personnel, increased turnover or increases in labor and pension costs could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. ​ Labor is a primary component of operating our business. A number of factors may adversely affect the labor force available to us or increase labor costs, including high employment levels, federal unemployment subsidies, including unemployment benefits offered in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and other government regulations. The labor market has become increasingly tight and competitive, and we may face sudden and unforeseen challenges in the availability of labor, such as we have experienced during fiscal 2022 at some of our production facilities, which reduced our production run-rates and increased our manufacturing costs. A sustained labor shortage or increased turnover rates within our workforce, caused by COVID-19 or as a result of general macroeconomic factors, have led and could in the future lead to production or shipping delays, increased costs, such as increased overtime to meet demand and increased wage rates to attract and retain employees, and could negatively affect our ability to efficiently operate our production and distribution facilities and overall business. Further, our success depends on our ability to attract and retain personnel with professional and technical expertise, such as agricultural and food manufacturing experience, as well as finance, marketing, and other senior management professionals. The loss of the services of these persons could deplete our institutional knowledge and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The market for these employees is competitive, and we could experience difficulty from time to time in hiring and retaining the personnel necessary to support our business. If we are unable to hire and retain employees capable of performing at a high-level, develop adequate training and succession plans for leadership positions, or if mitigation measures we may take to respond to a decrease in labor availability, such as overtime and third-party outsourcing, have unintended negative effects, our business could be adversely affected. Similarly, we have been negatively impacted and may in the future continue to be negatively impacted by labor shortages or increased labor costs experienced by our third-party business partners, including our logistics providers, suppliers and customers. For example, reduced availability of trucking capacity due to shortages of drivers, primarily as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, has caused an increase in the cost of transportation for us and our suppliers. An overall labor shortage, lack of skilled labor, increased turnover or labor inflation, caused by COVID-19 or as a result of general macroeconomic factors, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. ​ In addition, health care, workers’ compensation, postretirement welfare, and pension costs are increasing. Inflationary pressures and any shortages in the labor market could continue to increase labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our labor costs include the cost of providing employee benefits in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions, including pension, health and welfare, and severance benefits. Changes in interest rates, mortality rates, health care costs, early retirement rates, investment returns, and the market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our defined benefit plans and cause volatility in the future funding requirements of the plans. A significant increase in our obligations or future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows from operations. Additionally, the annual costs of benefits vary with increased costs of health care and the outcome of collectively-bargained wage and benefit agreements. ​ Changes in our relationships with our growers could adversely affect us. ​ We expend considerable resources to develop and maintain relationships with many potato growers. In some instances, we have entered into long-term agreements with growers; however, a portion of our potato needs are sourced on an annual contracted basis. To the extent we are unable to maintain positive relationships with our long-term growers, contracted growers deliver less supply than we expect, or we are unable to secure sufficient potatoes from uncontracted growers in a given year, we may not have sufficient potato supply to satisfy our business opportunities. To obtain sufficient potato supply, we may be required to purchase potatoes at prices substantially higher than expected, or forgo sales to some market segments, which would reduce our profitability. If we forgo sales to such market segments, we may lose customers and may not be able to regain or replace them later. ​ 14 Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected by the political and economic conditions of the countries in which we conduct business and other factors related to our international operations, including foreign currency risks and trade barriers. ​ We conduct a substantial and growing amount of business with customers located outside the U.S., including through our joint ventures. During each of fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, net sales outside the U.S., primarily in Australia, Canada, China, Japan, Korea, Mexico, and Taiwan, accounted for approximately 17% of our net sales. These amounts do not include any impact of unconsolidated net sales associated with our joint ventures, which are also subject to risks associated with international operations. ​ Many factors relating to our domestic and international sales and operations, many of which are outside of our control, have had, and could continue to have, a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, including: ​ Any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. ​ Changes in our relationships with significant customers could adversely affect us. ​ We maintain a diverse customer base across our four reporting segments. Customers include global, national and regional quick service and fast casual restaurants as well as small, independently operated restaurants, multinational, broadline foodservice distributors, regional foodservice distributors, and major food retailers. Some of these customers 15 independently represent a meaningful portion of our sales. In addition, we depend on foodservice distributors to help us create end-customer demand, provide technical support and other value-added services to customers, fill customer orders, and stock our products. A material change in our relationship with one or more of these distributors or their failure to perform as expected could reduce our revenue. The foodservice distributors also sell products that compete with our products, and we sometimes need to reduce prices or provide rebates and other incentives to focus them on the sale of our products. ​ Our largest customer, McDonald’s Corporation, accounted for approximately 10% of our consolidated net sales during fiscal 2022. There can be no assurance that our customers will continue to purchase our products in the same quantities or on the same terms as in the past. The loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in sales to a significant customer could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, the financial condition of our significant customers, including restaurants, distributors and retailers, are affected by events that are largely beyond our control, such as the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and possible future pandemics or other contagious outbreaks, and political or military conflicts, such as the war in Ukraine. Specifically, some customers, including McDonald’s Corporation, have exited from Russia. Deterioration in the financial condition of significant customers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. ​ Disruption of our access to export mechanisms could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. ​ To serve our customers globally, we rely in part on our international joint ventures, but also on exports from the U.S. During fiscal 2022, 2021, and 2020, export sales from the U.S. accounted for approximately 12%, 13% and 16%, respectively, of our total net sales. Circumstances beyond our control, such as a labor dispute at a port, or workforce disruption, including those due to the COVID-19 pandemic or future pandemics or other contagious outbreaks, could prevent us from exporting our products in sufficient quantities to meet customer opportunities. During the latter half of fiscal 2022, limited shipping container availability along the U.S. West Coast and disruptions to ocean freight networks across the Pacific Ocean resulted in lower export volumes in our Global segment. We have access to production outside of the U.S. through our facilities in Australia, Canada and China and joint ventures in Argentina and Europe, but we may be unsuccessful in mitigating any future disruption to export mechanisms. If this occurs, we may be unable to adequately supply all of our existing customers’ needs and new customer opportunities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. ​ Our operations are dependent on a wide array of third parties. ​ The success of our end-to-end supply chain relies on the continued performance of a wide array of third parties. Suppliers, co-packers, third-party outsourcers, warehousing partners, and transportation providers are among our critical partners. Although we take steps to qualify and audit third parties with whom we do business, we cannot guarantee that all third parties will perform dependably or at all. It is possible that events beyond our control, such as operational failures, labor issues, cybersecurity events, global geopolitical conflict, such as the war in Ukraine, pandemics or other health issues, such as COVID-19, or other issues could impact our third parties. If our third parties fail to deliver on their commitments, introduce unplanned risk to our operations (e.g., through cyber activity), or are unable to fulfill their obligations, we could experience manufacturing challenges, shipment delays, increased costs, or lost revenue, which could also impact our relationships with customers and our brand image. ​ In addition to our own production facilities, we source a portion of our products under co-packing agreements. The success of our business depends, in part, on maintaining a strong sourcing and manufacturing platform. We believe that there are a limited number of competent, high-quality co-packers in the industry, and if we were required to obtain additional or alternative co-packing agreements or arrangements in the future, we can provide no assurance that we would be able to do so on satisfactory terms or in a timely manner. Our inability to enter into satisfactory co-packing agreements could limit our ability to implement our business plan or meet customer demand. ​ 16 Damage to our reputation as a trusted partner to customers and good corporate citizen could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. ​ Our customers rely on us and our co-manufacturers to manufacture safe, high quality food products. Product contamination or tampering, the failure to maintain high standards for product quality, safety, and integrity, or allegations of product quality issues, mislabeling or contamination, even if untrue, may damage the reputation of our customers, and ultimately our reputation as a trusted industry partner. Damage to either could reduce demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. ​ Our reputation could also be adversely impacted by any of the following, or by adverse publicity (whether or not valid) relating thereto: the failure to maintain high ethical, social, and environmental standards for our operations and activities, including the health, safety and security of our employees; our research and development efforts; our environmental impact, including use of agricultural materials, packaging, energy use, and waste management; our failure to comply with local laws and regulations; our failure to maintain an effective system of internal controls; or our failure to provide accurate and timely financial information. Damage to our reputation or loss of customer confidence in our products for any of these or other reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. ​ If we are unable to execute on large capital projects, complete potential acquisitions that strategically fit our business objectives, or integrate acquired businesses, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. ​ Demand for frozen potato products is growing, and we believe that this demand will continue to grow over the long-term. To support our customers’ growth, we believe we must invest in our production capabilities either through capital expansion or acquisitions. In 2021, we announced capital investments in a new french fry processing line in American Falls, Idaho and a new french fry processing facility in China. If we are unable to complete these or other large capital projects, or encounter unexpected delays, higher costs or other challenges, including those related to supply chain disruptions and availability of necessary labor, materials, and equipment, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. ​ In addition, from time to time, we evaluate acquisition candidates that may strategically fit our business objectives. Our acquisition activities may present financial, managerial, and operational risks. Those risks include: (i) diversion of management attention from existing businesses, (ii) difficulties integrating personnel and financial and other systems, (iii) difficulties implementing effective control environment processes, (iv) adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, (v) inaccurate estimates of fair value made in the accounting for acquisitions and amortization of acquired intangible assets, which would reduce future reported earnings, (vi) potential loss of customers or key employees of acquired businesses, and (vii) indemnities and potential disputes with the sellers. If we are unable to complete acquisitions or successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses or execute on large capital projects, such as new production lines or facilities, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. ​ A portion of our business is, and several of our growth strategies are, conducted through joint ventures that do not operate solely for our benefit. ​ We have built our company, in part, through the creation of joint ventures, some of which we do not control. In these relationships, we share ownership and management of a company that operates for the benefit of all owners, rather than our exclusive benefit. Through our extensive experience in operating a portion of our business through joint ventures, we understand that joint ventures often require additional resources and procedures for information sharing and decision-making. If our joint venture partners take actions that have negative impacts on the joint venture, or disagree with the strategies we have developed to grow these businesses, we may have limited ability to influence and mitigate those actions or decisions and our ability to achieve our growth strategies may be negatively impacted. In addition, we and our respective partners may be liable for certain obligations or liabilities of the joint ventures. As a result, we may be subject to additional obligations or liabilities over which we may not have complete control. 17 Our substantial debt may limit cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business and could prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. ​ We have incurred substantial indebtedness. As of May 29, 2022, we had $2,728.0 million of long-term debt, including current portion, recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Our level of debt could have important consequences. For example, it could: ​ ​ The agreements governing our debt contain various covenants that impose restrictions on us that may affect our ability to operate our business. ​ The credit agreements governing our term loans and revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our senior notes contain covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to: ​ These restrictions on our ability to operate our business could harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition, or other corporate opportunities. ​ Various risks, uncertainties, and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in our existing or future financing agreements could result in a default under those agreements and under other agreements containing cross-default provisions. A default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements and to foreclose upon any collateral securing the debt. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations. Also, the limitations imposed by these financing agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. ​ In addition, the restrictive covenants in our credit agreements require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. We cannot provide assurance that we will continue to be in compliance with these ratios and tests. Our ability to continue to meet those financial ratios and tests will depend on our ongoing financial and operating performance, which, in turn, will be subject to economic conditions and to financial, market, and competitive factors, many of which are beyond our control. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under one or more of our debt instruments, including as a result of cross default provisions and, in the case of our revolving credit facility, permit the lenders thereunder to cease making loans to us. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. Such action by the lenders could cause cross-defaults under our senior notes indentures. ​ 18 Any failure to meet required payments on our debt, or failure to comply with any covenants in the instruments governing our debt, could result in a downgrade to our credit ratings. A downgrade in our credit ratings could limit our access to capital and increase our borrowing costs. ​ Technology Risks ​ We are significantly dependent on information technology, and we may be unable to protect our information systems against service interruption, misappropriation of data, or breaches of security. ​ We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic and financial information, to manage and support a variety of business processes and activities, and to comply with regulatory, legal, and tax requirements. We also depend upon our information technology infrastructure for digital marketing activities and for electronic communications among our locations, personnel, customers, third-party manufacturers and suppliers. The importance of such networks and systems has increased due to our adoption of flexible work-from-home policies for functional support areas, which in turn has heightened our vulnerability to cyberattacks or other disruptions. Despite careful security and controls design, implementation and updating, independent third-party verification and annual training of employees on information security and data protection, our information technology systems, some of which are dependent on services provided by third parties, may be vulnerable to, among other things, damage, invasions, disruptions, or shutdowns due to any number of causes such as catastrophic events, natural disasters, infectious disease outbreaks and other public health crises, fires, power outages, systems failures, telecommunications failures, security breaches, computer viruses, ransomware and malware, hackers, employee error or malfeasance, and other causes. While we have experienced threats to our data and systems, to date, we are not aware that we have experienced a material breach to our systems. However, third parties, including our partners and vendors, could also be a source of security risk to us, or cause disruptions to our normal operations, in the event of a breach of their own products, components, networks, security systems, and infrastructure. For example, in December 2021, our third-party service provider for our workforce management software, the Ultimate Kronos Group (“ Kronos ”), experienced a ransomware attack that resulted in Kronos temporarily decommissioning the functionality of certain of its cloud software, requiring us to find and implement other procedures to continue our payroll processes, which was time consuming and burdensome but did not have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, over time, and particularly recently, as evidenced by the attack on Kronos, the sophistication of the cyber threats continues to increase. Sophisticated cybersecurity threats, including potential cyberattacks from Russia targeted against the U.S., pose a potential risk to the security and viability of our information technology systems, as well as the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the data stored on those systems, including cloud-based platforms. In addition, new technology that could result in greater operational efficiency may further expose our computer systems to the risk of cyberattacks. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure and associated automated and manual control processes, we could be subject to billing and collection errors, business disruptions, or damage resulting from security breaches. If any of our significant information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption, or shutdown and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected, and we could experience delays in reporting our financial results. Any interruption of our information technology systems could have operational, reputational, legal, and financial impacts that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. ​ In addition, if we are unable to prevent security breaches or unauthorized disclosure of non-public information, we may suffer financial and reputational damage, litigation or remediation costs, fines, or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our partners, customers, or suppliers. Misuse, leakage, or falsification of information could result in violations of data privacy laws and regulations, potentially significant fines and penalties, damage to our reputation and credibility, loss of strategic opportunities, and loss of ability to commercialize products developed through research and development efforts and, therefore, could have a negative impact on net sales. In addition, we may face business interruptions, litigation, and financial and reputational damage because of lost or misappropriated confidential information belonging to us, our current or former employees, or to our suppliers or customers, and may become subject to legal action and increased regulatory oversight. We could also be required to spend significant financial and other resources to remedy the damage caused by a security breach or to repair or replace networks and information systems. ​ 19 Problems with the transition, design, or implementation of our new ERP system could interfere with our business and operations and adversely affect our financial condition. ​ We are in the process of building a new ERP system to replace our existing operating and financial systems. The ERP system is designed to accurately maintain our financial records, enhance operational functionality, and provide timely information to our management team related to the operation of the business. The ERP system implementation process has required, and will continue to require, the investment of significant personnel and financial resources. Due to the uncertainty caused by COVID-19, we paused ERP work in fiscal 2021, after completing the first phase of implementation. We recently resumed designing the next phase of our ERP implementation and are in the build stage. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, difficulties as we transition to new upgraded systems and business processes. These difficulties have and may include loss of data; difficulty in making payments to third-parties; difficulty in completing financial reporting and filing reports with the SEC in a timely manner; or challenges in otherwise running our business. We may also experience decreases in productivity as our personnel implement and become familiar with new systems and processes. Any disruptions, delays, or deficiencies in the transition, design, and implementation of a new ERP system, particularly any disruptions, delays, or deficiencies that impact our operations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Even if we do not encounter adverse effects, the transition, design, and implementation of a new ERP system, may be much more costly than we anticipated. ​ Industry Risks ​ Our business is affected by potato crop performance. ​ Our primary input is potatoes and every year, we must procure potatoes that meet the quality standards for processing into value-added products. Environmental and climate conditions, such as soil quality, moisture, and temperature, affect the yield and quality of the potato crop on a year-to-year basis. As a result, we source potatoes from specific regions of the U.S. and specific countries abroad, including Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, China, France, Germany, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom, where we believe the optimal potato growing conditions exist. However, severe weather conditions, including protracted periods of extreme heat or cold, during the planting and growing season in these regions can significantly affect potato crop performance, such as the extreme heat in the Pacific Northwest in the summer of 2021 and the drought in Europe during fiscal 2019, both of which resulted in poor crop and significantly limited supply. Further, because of the poor quality of the crop in the Pacific Northwest that was harvested in fall 2021, we encountered lower raw potato utilization rates in our production facilities during the second half of fiscal 2022, which increased our production costs. Potatoes are also susceptible to pest diseases and insects that can cause crop failure, decreased yields, and negatively affect the physical appearance of the potatoes. We have deep experience in agronomy and actively work to monitor the potato crop. However, if a weather or pest-related event occurs in a particular crop year, and our agronomic programs are insufficient to mitigate the impacts thereof, we may have insufficient potatoes to meet our existing customers’ needs and new customer opportunities, or we may experience manufacturing inefficiencies and higher costs, and our competitiveness and profitability could decrease. Alternatively, overly favorable growing conditions can lead to high per acre yields and over-supply. An increased supply of potatoes could lead to overproduction of finished goods and associated increased storage costs or destruction of unused potatoes at a loss. ​ Our business relies on a potato crop that has a concentrated growing region. ​ Ideal growing conditions for the potatoes necessary for our value-added products (e.g., french fries) are concentrated in a few geographic regions globally. In the U.S., most of the potato crop used in value-added products is grown in Washington, Idaho, and Oregon. European growing regions for the necessary potatoes are concentrated in Austria, Belgium, Germany, France, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. Recent agronomic developments have opened new growing regions, but the capital-intensive nature of our industry’s production processes has kept production highly concentrated in the historical growing regions noted above. Unfavorable crop conditions in any one region could lead to significant demand on the other regions for production, which occurred in connection with the drought in Europe during fiscal 2019. Our inability to mitigate any such conditions by leveraging our production capabilities in other regions could negatively impact our ability to meet existing customers’ needs and new customer opportunities and could decrease our profitability. 20 The sophistication and buying power of some of our customers could have a negative impact on profits. ​ Some of our customers are large and sophisticated, with buying power and negotiating strength. These customers may be more capable of resisting price increases and more likely to demand lower pricing, increased promotional programs, or specialty tailored products. In addition, some of these customers (e.g., larger distributors and supermarkets) have the scale to develop supply chains that permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own brands. Shelf space at food retailers is not guaranteed, and large retail customers may choose to stock their own retailer and other economy brands that compete with some of our products. This could be exacerbated with a shift in consumer spending as a result of an economic downturn and consumers moving to private label or lower priced products. If the initiatives we undertake to counteract these pressures, including efficiency programs and investments in innovation and quality, are unsuccessful and we are unable to counteract the negotiating strength of these customers, our profitability could decline. ​ Increased competition may result in reduced sales or profits. ​ Our business, value-added frozen potato products, is highly competitive. Competitors include large North American and European frozen potato product companies that compete globally, local and regional companies, and retailers and foodservice distributors with their own branded and private label products. Some of our competitors are larger and have substantial financial, sales and marketing, and other resources. We compete based on, among other things, customer service, value, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, price, and the ability to identify and satisfy customer preferences. A strong competitive response from one or more of our competitors to our marketplace efforts could result in us reducing pricing, increasing spend on promotional activity, or losing market share. Competitive pressures may restrict our ability to increase prices, including in response to commodity and other input cost increases or additional improvements in product quality. Our profits could decrease if a reduction in prices or increased costs are not counterbalanced with increased sales volume. ​ Increased industry capacity may result in reduced sales or profits. ​ In recent years, market demand for value-added frozen potato products has exceeded industry capacity to produce these products. As additional industry capacity comes online, or market demand otherwise decreases, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic or future pandemics or other contagious outbreaks, we may face competitive pressures that would restrict our ability to increase or maintain prices, or we may lose market share. For example, during fiscal 2021, we faced increased pricing pressure for private label products due to excess production capacity in Europe that resulted from decreased demand following government-imposed COVID-related social restrictions, which caused us to lose some private label volume. Our profits would decrease as a result of a reduction in prices or sales volume. ​ We must identify changing consumer preferences and consumption trends and develop and offer food products to our customers that help meet those preferences and trends. ​ Consumer preferences evolve over time and our success depends on our ability to identify the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and offer products that appeal to those preferences. We need to continue to respond to these changing consumer preferences and support our customers in their efforts to evolve to meet those preferences. For example, as consumers continue to focus on freshly prepared foods, some restaurants may choose to limit the frying capabilities of their kitchens. As a result, we must evolve our product offering to provide alternatives that work in such a preparation environment. In addition, our products contain carbohydrates, sodium, genetically modified ingredients, added sugars, saturated fats, and preservatives, the diet and health effects of which remain the subject of public scrutiny. We must continue to reformulate our products, introduce new products and create product extensions without a loss of the taste, texture, and appearance that consumers demand in value-added potato products. All of these efforts require significant research and development and marketing investments. If our products fail to meet consumer preferences or customer requirements, or we fail to introduce new and improved products on a timely basis, then the return on those investments will be less than anticipated, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. ​ 21 In addition, we compete against branded products as well as private label products. Our products must provide higher value and/or quality to our customers and consumers than alternatives, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty. Consumers may not buy our products if relative differences in value and/or quality between our products and private label products change in favor of competitors’ products or if consumers perceive this type of change. If consumers prefer private label products, which are typically sold at lower prices, then we could lose market share or sales volumes or shift our product mix to lower margin offerings. During an economic downturn, factors such as increased unemployment, decreases in disposable income, inflation, and declines in consumer confidence could cause a decrease in demand for our overall product offerings, particularly higher priced products, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Distributors, restaurants and retailers may also become more conservative in response to these conditions and seek to reduce their inventories. A change in consumer preferences could also cause us to increase capital, marketing, and other expenditures, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. ​ Legal and Regulatory Risks ​ We may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls, which could negatively impact our relationships with customers and harm our business. ​ We sell food products for human consumption, which involves risks such as product contamination or spoilage, product tampering, other adulteration of food products, mislabeling, and misbranding. We may voluntarily recall or withdraw products from the market in certain circumstances, which would cause us to incur associated costs; those costs could be meaningful. We may also be subject to litigation, requests for indemnification from our customers, or liability if the consumption or inadequate preparation of any of our products causes injury, illness, or death. A significant product liability judgment or a widespread product recall may negatively impact our sales and profitability for a period of time depending on the costs of the recall, the destruction of product inventory, product availability, competitive reaction, customer reaction, and consumer attitudes. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image. ​ Additionally, as a manufacturer and marketer of food products, we are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other national, state and local government agencies. The Food, Drug & Cosmetic Act, the Food Safety Modernization Act, other laws and their respective regulations govern, among other things, the manufacturing, composition and ingredients, packaging and safety of food products. Some aspects of these laws use a strict liability standard for imposing sanctions on corporate behavior, meaning that no intent is required to be established. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls, or seizures, as well as criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. ​ New regulations imposed by the FDA or EFSA around acrylamide formation in potato products could adversely affect us. ​ The regulation of food products, both within the U.S. and internationally, continues to be a focus for governmental scrutiny. The presence and/or formation of acrylamide in potato products cooked at high temperatures has become a global regulatory issue as both the FDA and the European Food Safety Authority (‘‘EFSA’’) have issued guidance to the food processing industry to work to reduce conditions that favor the formation of this naturally occurring compound. Acrylamide formation is the result of heat processing reactions that give ‘‘browned foods’’ their desirable flavor. Acrylamide formation occurs in many food types in the human diet, including but not limited to breads, toast, cookies, coffee, crackers, potatoes, and olives. The regulatory approach to acrylamide has generally been to encourage the industry to achieve as low as reasonably achievable content levels through process control (e.g., temperature) and material testing (e.g., low sugar and low asparagine). However, limits for acrylamide exposure have been established in the State of California, and point of sale consumer warnings are required if products exceed those limits. In addition, the EFSA has promulgated regulations establishing specific mitigation measures, sampling and analysis procedures and benchmark levels for acrylamide in certain food products. If the global regulatory approach to acrylamide becomes more stringent and 22 additional legal limits are established, our manufacturing costs could increase. In addition, if consumer perception regarding the safety of our products is negatively impacted due to regulation, sales of our products could decrease. ​ If we fail to comply with the many laws and regulations applicable to our business, we may face lawsuits or incur significant fines and penalties. ​ Our facilities and products are subject to many laws and regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the FDA, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and other federal, state, local, and foreign governmental agencies relating to the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling, quality, and safety of food products, and the health and safety of our employees. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to additional costs, product detentions, substantial delays or a temporary shutdown in manufacturing, lawsuits, administrative penalties, and civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, and recalls of our products. ​ Our operations are also subject to extensive and increasingly stringent regulations administered by foreign government agencies, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and comparable state agencies, which pertain to the protection of human health and the environment, including, but not limited to, the discharge of materials into the environment and the handling and disposition of wastes. Failure to comply with these regulations can have serious consequences, including civil and administrative penalties and negative publicity. Changes in applicable laws or regulations or evolving interpretations thereof, including increased government regulations to limit the emissions of toxic air pollutants and carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions as a result of concern over climate change, may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures, and other financial obligations for us, which could affect our profitability or impede the production or distribution of our products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. ​ Climate change, or legal, regulatory, or market measures to address climate change, may negatively affect our business and operations. ​ There is growing concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns, and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. In the event that climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as potatoes and edible oils. Adverse weather conditions and natural disasters can reduce crop size and crop quality, which in turn could reduce our supplies of raw potatoes, lower recoveries of usable raw potatoes, increase the prices of our raw potatoes, increase our cost of transporting and storing raw potatoes, or disrupt our production schedules or efficiencies. Natural disasters and extreme weather conditions may disrupt the productivity of our facilities or the operation of our supply chain. In addition, water is an important part of potato processing. In times of water stress, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water, which could impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. Further, a decrease in the availability of water in certain regions caused by droughts or other factors could increase competition for land and resources in areas that have more favorable growing conditions, and thereby increase costs for such land and resources. ​ The increasing concern over climate change also may result in more regional, federal, and/or global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases, as well as more stringent regulation of water rights. In the event that such regulation is enacted and is more aggressive than the sustainability measures that we are currently undertaking to monitor our emissions, improve our energy efficiency, and reduce and reuse water, we may be subject to curtailment or reduced access to resources or experience significant increases in our costs of operation and delivery. In particular, increasing regulation of utility providers, fuel emissions, or fuel suppliers could substantially increase the distribution and supply chain costs of our products. Also, consumers and customers may place an increased priority on purchasing products that are sustainably grown and made, requiring us to incur increased costs for additional transparency, due diligence, and reporting. Further, any failure to achieve our goals with respect to reducing our impact on the environment or perception of a failure to act responsibly with respect to the environment or to effectively respond to regulatory requirements concerning climate change can lead to adverse publicity, which could damage our reputation. As a result, climate change could negatively affect our business and operations. See also “Industry Risks – Our business is affected by potato crop performance,” in this Item 1A. Risk Factors above. 23 Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. ​ We consider our intellectual property rights to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of trademark, patent, copyright and trade secret protection, contractual agreements and policing of third-party misuses of our intellectual property. Our failure to obtain or adequately protect our intellectual property or any change in law that lessens or removes the current legal protections of our intellectual property may diminish our competitiveness and adversely affect our business and financial results. We also license certain intellectual property, most notably Grown in Idaho and Alexia , from third parties. To the extent that we are not able to contract with these third parties on favorable terms or maintain our relationships with these third parties, our rights to use certain intellectual property could be impacted. ​ Competing intellectual property claims that impact our brands or products may arise unexpectedly. Any litigation or disputes regarding intellectual property may be costly and time-consuming and may divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development, launch and sale of certain products. Any of these occurrences may harm our business and financial results. ​

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

​ The following discussion and analysis is intended to provide a summary of significant factors relevant to our financial performance and condition. The discussion and analysis should be read together with our consolidated financial statements and related notes in “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K. Results for the fiscal year ended May 29, 2022 are not necessarily indicative of results that may be attained in the future. ​ The following generally discusses fiscal 2022 and 2021 items and fiscal year comparisons between fiscal 2022 and 2021. Discussions of fiscal 2020 items and fiscal year comparisons between fiscal 2021 and 2020 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in “Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 30, 2021, which we filed with the SEC on July 27, 2021 . ​ Overview ​ Lamb Weston, along with our joint ventures, is a leading global producer, distributor, and marketer of value-added frozen potato products. We, along with our joint ventures, are the number one supplier of value-added frozen potato products in North America. We, along with our joint ventures, are also a leading supplier of value-added frozen potato products internationally, with a strong and growing presence in high-growth emerging markets. We, along with our joint ventures, offer a broad product portfolio to a diverse channel and customer base in over 100 countries. French fries represent the majority of our value-added frozen potato product portfolio. ​ Management’s discussion and analysis of our results of operations and financial condition, which we refer to in this filing as “MD&A,” is provided as a supplement to the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Form 10-K to help provide an understanding of our financial condition, changes in financial condition and results of our operations. Our MD&A is based on financial data derived from the financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and certain other financial data (including product contribution margin on a consolidated basis, Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”), Adjusted EBITDA including unconsolidated joint ventures, Adjusted Diluted earnings per share (“EPS”), and Adjusted Net Income) that is prepared using non-GAAP financial measures. Refer to “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below for the definitions of product contribution margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA including unconsolidated joint ventures, Adjusted Diluted EPS, and Adjusted Net Income, and a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to gross profit, net income or diluted EPS, as applicable. ​ Executive Summary ​ In fiscal 2022, we delivered a solid financial and operating performance in a highly challenging environment that was characterized by severe input and transportation cost inflation, a historically poor potato crop in the Pacific Northwest, and constraints in labor availability and logistics networks. We drove strong net sales growth by executing pricing actions and improving product and customer mix. These actions, along with our supply chain productivity initiatives, served to offset some, but not all, of the cost and operating headwinds that we faced throughout the year. Specifically, compared with the prior year: ​ ​ Compared with fiscal 2021, the increase in net sales was primarily driven by higher price/mix and sales volumes. The increase in price/mix reflected the benefit of multiple product pricing actions across each of our business segments to offset input cost inflation, as well as higher prices charged for product delivery. The increase in sales volumes reflected 28 higher shipments to restaurant and foodservice channels in North America as demand continued to rebound towards pre-pandemic levels. The increase was most pronounced in our Foodservice segment, which has a higher proportion of its sales to on-premise dining establishments, while shipments to our large chain quick service restaurant (“QSR”) and casual dining restaurant customers in the U.S., which are included in our Global segment, also increased. The sales volume increase was partially offset by lower export volumes, which are included in our Global segment, and lower shipments in our Retail segment. Our sales growth was also tempered by widespread industry supply chain constraints that resulted in lower production run-rates and throughput in our production facilities. ​ Outside of North America, the recovery in frozen potato demand varied and generally lagged U.S. demand. Shipments to customers in China fell as restaurant traffic and consumer demand was negatively affected by government-imposed restrictions geared towards reducing the spread of COVID-19-related variants, while shipments to other key markets in Asia and Oceania were negatively affected by global logistics constraints. In Europe, which is served by our LWM joint venture, sales volumes increased as restaurant traffic continued to improve, although earnings were negatively affected by inflation, production, and transportation challenges. ​ Gross profit in fiscal 2022 was flat compared to fiscal 2021, as favorable price/mix offset higher manufacturing and distribution costs on a per pound basis, while income from operations declined $30.4 million to $444.4 million as a result of higher selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses. ​ Compared to fiscal 2021, net income declined $116.9 million to $200.9 million, while Diluted EPS declined $0.78 to $1.38. Most of the declines were due to a $62.7 million (before and after-tax, or $0.43 per share) non-cash impairment charge associated with LWM’s announced intent, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022, to withdraw from its joint venture in Russia in response to the war in Ukraine, as well as a loss of $53.3 million ($40.5 million after-tax or $0.27 per share) associated with a transaction to lower the interest rates and extend the maturities on some outstanding debt (see Liquidity and Capital Resources below). ​ We generated full-year cash from operations of $418.1 million and cash flow after investing activities of $107.6 million. We ended the year with $525.0 million of cash and cash equivalents and no borrowings on our revolving credit facility. In addition, we returned $289.1 million to our stockholders, including $138.4 million in cash dividends and $150.7 million of share repurchases. In July 2022, we used approximately $42 million to acquire an additional forty percent interest in our joint venture in Argentina, LWAMSA, increasing our total ownership from fifty percent to ninety percent. Following the acquisition, we will consolidate LWAMSA’s results in our consolidated financial statements. ​ Outlook ​ In fiscal 2023, we expect price/mix to increase largely due to pricing actions that we began to implement in fiscal 2022 in an effort to mitigate manufacturing and distribution cost inflation. We also expect sales volumes to grow largely due to the expected continuation in the rise of U.S. demand for frozen potato products, although our volume growth may be tempered by production capacity and logistics constraints. In addition, we expect that U.S. restaurant traffic, demand, and volume growth may be increasingly volatile as consumers respond to the current inflationary environment. We expect the rate of recovery of demand in our key international markets will be mixed, and that our international shipments will continue to be tempered by limited shipping container availability and disruptions to ocean freight networks. ​ During the first half of fiscal 2023, we expect our gross margins will be pressured as compared to normalized seasonal rates as we continue to manage through significant inflation as well as higher raw potato costs on a per pound basis due to the impact of extreme summer heat that negatively affected the yield and quality of potato crops in the Pacific Northwest in the fall of 2021. We also expect our gross margins in the first half of fiscal 2023 will be pressured by ongoing industrywide operational challenges, including labor and commodities shortages, resulting from volatility in the broader supply chain. During the second half of fiscal 2023, we expect our gross margins will improve if the potato crop harvested in fall 2022 is in line with historical averages, we continue to successfully implement our pricing actions to offset input and transportation costs inflation, and we realize a broad easing of labor and logistics pressures that have been constraining our production and shipments. We expect overall SG&A to be higher as a result of increased compensation and benefits expenses and investments to improve our information technology infrastructure over the long-term, including our efforts to design and implement the next phase of a new ERP system. 29 ​ Results of Operations ​ We have four reportable segments: Global, Foodservice, Retail, and Other. We report net sales and product contribution margin by segment and on a consolidated basis. Product contribution margin, when presented on a consolidated basis, is a non-GAAP financial measure. Net sales and product contribution margin are the primary measures reported to our chief operating decision maker for purposes of allocating resources to our segments and assessing their performance. Product contribution margin represents net sales less cost of sales and advertising and promotion (“A&P”) expenses. Product contribution margin includes advertising and promotion expenses because those expenses are directly associated with the performance of our segments. For additional information on our reportable segments and product contribution margin, see “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below and Note 13, Segments, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Form 10-K. ​ Fiscal Year Ended May 29, 2022 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended May 30, 2021 ​ Net Sales and Product Contribution Margin ​ ​ Net Sales ​ Lamb Weston’s net sales for fiscal 2022 increased $428.0 million, or 12%, to $4,098.9 million, compared with $3,670.9 million in fiscal 2021. Price/mix increased 9%, primarily reflecting the benefit of pricing actions across each of our business segments to offset input, manufacturing, and transportation cost inflation, as well as favorable mix. Volume increased 3%, reflecting higher shipments to restaurant and foodservice channels in North America, partially offset by lower exports due to limited shipping container availability and disruptions to ocean freight networks, as well as lower shipments to retail channels. Our volume growth was tempered by an inability to fully serve customer demand due to widespread industry supply chain constraints, including labor and commodities shortages, that resulted in lower production run-rates and throughput in our production facilities. ​ Global net sales increased $152.7 million, or 8%, to $2,064.2 million, compared with $1,911.5 million in fiscal 2021. Price/mix increased 6% and volume increased 2%. The benefit of domestic and international product and freight pricing actions to offset inflation, as well as favorable mix, drove the increase in price/mix. A strong increase in sales volumes to North American large QSR and casual dining restaurant chain customers was partially offset by lower export shipments due to limited shipping container availability and disruptions to ocean freight networks. ​ 30 Foodservice net sales increased $300.9 million, or 30%, to $1,318.2 million, compared with $1,017.3 million in fiscal 2021. Volume and price/mix each increased 15%. The benefits of product and freight pricing actions taken throughout the year to offset inflation, as well as favorable mix, drove the increase in price/mix. The segment’s strong volume growth reflects the progressive recovery in demand in its restaurant and non-commercial channels, although growth was tempered by an inability to fully serve customer demand due to widespread industry supply chain constraints, including labor shortages, that resulted in lower production run-rates and throughput in our production facilities. ​ Retail net sales decreased $8.8 million, or 1%, to $594.6 million, compared with $603.4 million in fiscal 2021. Volume declined 8% while price/mix increased 7%. Lower shipments of private label products, resulting from incremental losses of certain low-margin business, as well as lower shipments of branded products, drove the sales volume decline. The decline in branded product volume reflected an inability to fully serve customer demand due to lower production run-rates and throughput in our production facilities. Product and freight pricing actions across the branded and private label portfolios to offset inflation, as well as improved mix, drove the increase in price/mix. ​ Net sales in our Other segment declined $16.8 million, or 12%, to $121.9 million, compared with $138.7 million in fiscal 2021. The decline primarily reflects lower volume in our vegetable business, reflecting the negative effect of the extreme summer heat on the yield and quality of the vegetable crops, partially offset by the benefit of pricing actions. ​ Gross Profit and Product Contribution Margin ​ Gross profit in fiscal 2022 was flat compared to fiscal 2021 at $832.0 million, as the benefits from higher price/mix and volume were offset by the impact of higher manufacturing and distribution costs on a per pound basis. The higher costs per pound primarily reflected double-digit cost inflation from key inputs, including: edible oils; ingredients such as grains and starches used in product coatings; packaging; labor; and higher transportation costs. The increase in costs per pound also reflected higher raw potato costs due to the impact of extreme summer heat that negatively affected the yield and quality of potato crops in the Pacific Northwest in fall 2021, the effects of labor and commodities shortages on production run-rates, as well as lower raw potato utilization rates. The increase in per pound costs was partially offset by securing changes to product specifications, portfolio simplification, and driving supply chain savings behind our Win as 1 productivity program. Gross profit also included a $28.9 million decrease in unrealized mark-to-market adjustments associated with commodity hedging contracts, which includes a $9.5 million loss in the current year, compared with a $19.4 million gain related to these items in the prior year. ​ Lamb Weston’s overall product contribution margin in fiscal 2022 declined $1.1 million to $813.1 million, compared with $814.2 million in fiscal 2021. The decline was largely due to a $1.1 million increase in A&P expenses as gross profit was flat (as described above). ​ Global product contribution margin declined $54.0 million, or 18%, to $252.2 million in fiscal 2022. Higher manufacturing and distribution costs per pound more than offset the benefit of favorable price/mix and higher sales volumes. Global segment cost of sales was $1,806.6 million, up 13% compared to fiscal 2021, primarily due to higher manufacturing and distribution costs and higher sales volumes. ​ Foodservice product contribution margin increased $109.3 million, or 32%, to $449.3 million in fiscal 2022. Favorable price, volume and mix drove the increase, and were partially offset by higher manufacturing and distribution costs per pound. Cost of sales was $863.8 million, up 28% compared to fiscal 2021, primarily due to higher manufacturing and distribution costs and higher sales volumes. ​ Retail product contribution margin declined $10.8 million, or 9%, to $109.4 million in fiscal 2022. Higher manufacturing and distribution costs per pound and lower sales volumes drove the decline, partially offset by favorable price/mix and a $0.8 million decrease in A&P expenses. Cost of sales was $477.1 million, up 1% compared to fiscal 2021, primarily due to higher manufacturing and distribution costs, partially offset by lower sales volumes. ​ Other product contribution margin declined $45.6 million to $2.2 million in fiscal 2022, as compared to $47.8 million in fiscal 2021. These amounts include a $10.4 million loss related to unrealized mark-to-market adjustments and realized settlements associated with commodity hedging contracts in fiscal 2022, and a $27.8 million gain related to the 31 contracts in fiscal 2021. Excluding these mark-to-market adjustments, Other segment product contribution margin declined $7.4 million, largely due to higher manufacturing costs and lower sales volumes in our vegetable business. ​ Selling, General and Administrative Expenses ​ SG&A expenses were $387.6 million, up $30.4 million, or 9%, in fiscal 2022 compared with fiscal 2021. The increase was primarily due to higher compensation and benefits expense; higher travel, employee relations and in-person meeting expenses; higher information technology infrastructure costs, including expenses related to the planning and design of our new ERP system, and a $3.5 million contribution to the Lamb Weston charitable foundation. The increase in SG&A was partially offset by lower consulting expenses associated with improving our commercial and supply chain operations. ​ Interest Expense, Net ​ Interest expense, net was $161.0 million in fiscal 2022, an increase of $42.7 million compared with fiscal 2021. The increase reflects a $53.3 million ($40.5 million after-tax) loss on extinguishment of debt associated with the redemption of our previously outstanding senior notes due 2024 and 2026. Excluding this loss, interest expense, net declined $10.6 million, reflecting a lower weighted average interest rate. For more information, see Note 7, Debt and Financing Obligations, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Form 10-K. ​ Income Taxes ​ Our effective tax rate was 26.3% for fiscal 2022, compared to 22.2% in fiscal 2021. The difference between our effective tax rates in fiscal 2022 and 2021 is primarily due to the Russia impairment charge treated as a non-deductible permanent difference. Our effective tax rate varies from the U.S. statutory tax rate of 21% principally due to the impact of U.S. state taxes, foreign taxes, permanent differences, and discrete items, and was elevated in fiscal 2022 relative to our historical rate due to the Russia impairment charge. Excluding the Russia impairment charge, our effective tax rate for fiscal 2022 was 21.4%. ​ For further information on income taxes, see Note 3, Income Taxes, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Form 10-K. ​ Equity Method Investment Earnings (Loss) ​ We conduct meaningful business through unconsolidated joint ventures and include our share of the earnings (loss) based on our economic ownership interest in them. Lamb Weston’s share of earnings (loss) from its equity method investments was a loss of $10.7 million and earnings of $51.8 million for fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively. Equity method investment earnings in fiscal 2022 included a $62.7 million non-cash impairment charge to write-off our portion of LWM’s net investment in Russia resulting from LWM’s announced intent to withdraw from its joint venture in response to the war in Ukraine. Equity method investment earnings also included a $26.5 million unrealized gain related to mark-to-market adjustments associated with currency and commodity hedging contracts in fiscal 2022 and an $11.3 million gain related to these items in fiscal 2021. The increase in mark-to-market adjustments in 2022 primarily relates to changes in the value of natural gas derivatives at LWM as commodity markets in Europe have experienced significant volatility. ​ Excluding the charge associated with the write-off of our portion of LWM’s net investment in Russia and the mark-to-market adjustments, earnings from equity method investments decreased $15.0 million compared to the prior year. The decrease reflects input cost inflation and higher manufacturing and distribution costs in both Europe and the U.S., partially offset by the benefit of favorable price/mix and higher sales volumes. ​ Liquidity and Capital Resources ​ We ended fiscal 2022 with $525.0 million of cash and cash equivalents and $994.6 million of availability on our revolving credit facility, which is net of outstanding letters of credit of $5.4 million. We believe we have sufficient liquidity to meet projected capital expenditures, service existing debt and meet working capital requirements for the next 12 months 32 with current cash balances and cash from operations, supplemented as necessary by available borrowings under our existing revolving credit facility. ​ Cash Flows ​ Below is a summary table of our cash flows, followed by a discussion of the sources and uses of cash through operating, investing, and financing activities: ​ ​ Operating Activities ​ During fiscal 2022, cash provided by operating activities decreased $135.1 million to $418.1 million, compared to $553.2 million for fiscal 2021. The decrease related to $130.4 million of cash used for unfavorable changes in working capital, and a $4.7 million decrease in net income, adjusted for non-cash income and expenses. Unfavorable changes in working capital primarily related to a decrease in accounts payable due to timing, an increase in receivables attributable to higher sales at the end of fiscal 2022, compared with the end of fiscal 2021, and higher finished goods inventories due to increased input costs and global disruption in freight networks. These unfavorable changes were partially offset by a favorable change in accrued liabilities, which was primarily due to a shift in the timing of accrued interest payments for our senior notes. Specifically, our senior notes due 2030 and 2032, which were issued in fiscal 2022, have payments due in the first quarter of fiscal 2023, whereas the now-redeemed senior notes due 2024 and 2026 had interest payments due in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021. See “Result of Operations” in this MD&A for more information related to the decrease in income from operations. ​ Investing Activities ​ Investing activities used $310.5 million of cash in fiscal 2022, compared with $162.5 million in fiscal 2021. The increase primarily relates to our concentrated effort in the prior year to control spending during the early stages of the COVID-19 pandemic to preserve liquidity. In addition to maintenance capital expenditures, fiscal 2022 also reflected increased investments to support capacity expansion projects in Idaho and China. ​ We expect capital investments in fiscal 2023 to be approximately $475 million to $525 million, depending on timing of projects, which include among other items: construction of a previously announced french fry production line and plant modernization investments in Idaho, construction of a greenfield french fry processing facility in China, and capital investments to upgrade information systems and ERP infrastructure. These expenditures could increase or decrease as a result of a number of factors, including our financial results, future economic conditions, supply chain constraints for equipment, and our regulatory compliance requirements. At May 29, 2022, we had commitments for capital expenditures of $304.7 million. ​ In July 2022, we acquired an additional forty percent interest in our Argentina joint venture, LWAMSA, for approximately $42 million, increasing our total ownership of LWAMSA from fifty percent to ninety percent. Following this acquisition, we will consolidate LWAMSA’s results in our consolidated financial statements. ​ 33 Financing Activities ​ During fiscal 2022, cash used for financing activities decreased $610.6 million to $363.4 million, compared with $974.0 million used during fiscal 2021. During fiscal 2022, financing activities primarily related to issuing U.S. dollar-denominated senior notes and a RMB-denominated loan facility for combined net proceeds of $1,676.1 million, offset by $1,698.1 million of debt and financing obligation repayments, including cash used to redeem our previously outstanding senior notes due 2024 and 2026 (including the payment of a call premium of $39.6 million), and the payment of $138.4 million of cash dividends to common stockholders. In addition, we used $158.4 million of cash to repurchase 2,407,184 shares of our common stock at an average price of $62.59 and withheld 118,204 shares from employees to cover income and payroll taxes on equity awards that vested during the year. As of May 29, 2022, $268.9 million remained authorized for repurchase under our share repurchase program. ​ During fiscal 2021, we repaid the $495.0 million we borrowed under our revolving credit facility at the onset of the pandemic, and we repaid $305.5 million of other debt and financing obligations (including the repayment of the $271.9 million term loan facility that was scheduled to mature in November 2021). We also paid $135.3 million in cash dividends to common stockholders. During fiscal 2021, we repurchased 328,918 shares of our common stock at an average price of $78.19 and withheld 164,992 shares of common stock from employees to cover income and payroll taxes on equity awards that vested during the period. ​ For more information about our debt, including among other items, interest rates, maturity dates, and covenants, see Note 7, Debt and Financing Obligations, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K. At May 29, 2022, we were in compliance with all covenants contained in our credit agreements. ​ Investments in Joint Ventures ​ We conduct some of our business through three unconsolidated joint ventures and account for these investments using equity method accounting. For more information about our investments in joint ventures, see Note 4, Equity Method Investments, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K. ​ Obligations and Commitments ​ As part of our ongoing operations, we enter into arrangements that obligate us to make future payments under contracts such as debt agreements, lease agreements, potato supply agreements, and unconditional purchase obligations. The unconditional purchase obligation arrangements are entered into in the normal course of business in order to ensure adequate levels of sourced product are available. ​ A summary of our material cash requirements for our known contractual obligations as of May 29, 2022 are as follows: ​ ​ 34 ​ ​ Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements ​ We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of May 29, 2022 that are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources. ​ Critical Accounting Estimates ​ Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Company’s consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to our trade promotions, income taxes, and impairment, among others. We base our estimates on historical experiences combined with management’s understanding of current facts and circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. ​ Critical accounting estimates are those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and operating results. These estimates require management’s most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments. We review the development, selection, and disclosure of our critical accounting estimates with the Audit and Finance Committee of our Board of Directors. ​ We have made appropriate accounting estimates based on the facts and circumstances available as of the reporting date. To the extent there are differences between these estimates and actual results, our consolidated financial statements may be affected. ​ Sales Incentives and Trade Promotion Allowances ​ We promote our products with advertising, consumer incentives, and trade promotions. Sales promotions include, but are not limited to, discounts, coupons, rebates, and volume-based incentives. The estimates for sales incentives are based principally on historical sales and redemption rates, influenced by judgments about current market conditions such as competitive activity in specific product categories. ​ Trade promotion programs include introductory marketing funds such as slotting fees, cooperative marketing programs, temporary price reductions, and other activities conducted by our customers to promote our products. The costs of these programs are recognized as a reduction to revenue with a corresponding accrued liability. The estimate of trade promotions is inherently difficult due to information limitations as the products move beyond distributors and through the supply chain to operators. Estimates made by management in accounting for these costs are based primarily on our historical experience with marketing programs, with consideration given to current circumstances and industry trends and include the following: quantity of customer sales, timing of promotional activities, current and past trade-promotion spending patterns, the interpretation of historical spending trends by customer and category, and forecasted costs for activities within the promotional programs. ​ The determination of sales incentive and trade promotion costs requires judgment and may change in the future as a result of changes in customer demand for our products, promotion participation, particularly for new programs related to the introduction of new products. Final determination of the total cost of promotion is dependent upon customers 35 providing information about proof of performance and other information related to the promotional event. Because of the complexity of some of these trade promotions, the ultimate resolution may result in payments that are different from our estimates. As additional information becomes known, we may change our estimates. At May 29, 2022 and May 30, 2021, we had $41.2 million and $39.9 million, respectively, of accrued trade promotions payable recorded in “Accrued liabilities” on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. ​ Income Taxes ​ We compute the provision for income taxes using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. We measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using the currently enacted tax rates that apply to taxable income in effect for the years in which those tax assets and liabilities are expected to be realized or settled. ​ Inherent in determining the annual tax rate are judgments regarding business plans, planning opportunities, and expectations about future outcomes. Management judgments are required for the following items: ​ ​ ​ ​ Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Equity Method Investments ​ Long lived assets . Our manufacturing assets are shared across all reporting segments, which are grouped together for long-lived asset impairment assessment. We review these long-lived assets for impairment upon the occurrence of events or changes in circumstances which indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be fully recoverable, measured by comparing their net book value to the undiscounted projected future cash flows generated by their use. Impaired assets are recorded at their estimated fair value. ​ In evaluating impairment of long-lived assets, we consider events or changes in circumstances related to market prices, physical condition of assets, legal actions, construction costs, future operating cash flows, remaining depreciable 36 lives, and potential asset disposal. At May 29, 2022 and May 30, 2021, we did not identify any triggering events that would indicate that the carrying amounts of our assets groups may not be recoverable. ​ Equity method investments . We conduct some of our business through unconsolidated joint ventures and include our share of the earnings based on our economic ownership interest in them. At May 29, 2022 and May 30, 2021, we held 50% equity interests in three potato processing joint ventures, including LWM, Lamb Weston RDO, and LWAMSA. These investments are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. We are required to assess our equity method investments for other-than-temporary impairment when events or circumstances suggest the carrying amount of the investment may be impaired. We perform our assessment of other-than-temporary impairment for each investment individually. ​ In evaluating other-than-temporary impairment of equity method investments, we consider events or changes in circumstances related to investee operating losses, investee future cash flows, and the ability to retain our investment in the investee. In May 2022, in response to the war in Ukraine, LWM announced its intent to withdraw from its investment in Russia and recorded a charge to write-off its net investment in the market. Our portion of the non-cash impairment charge was $62.7 million. There were no indications of other-than-temporary impairment in any of our other equity method investments. ​ New and Recently Issued Accounting Standards ​ For a listing of new and recently issued accounting standards, see Note 1, Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K. ​ Non-GAAP Financial Measures ​ To supplement the financial information included in this report, we have presented product contribution margin on a consolidated basis, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA including unconsolidated joint ventures, Adjusted Diluted EPS, and Adjusted Net Income, each of which is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. ​ Product contribution margin is one of the primary measures reported to our chief operating decision maker for purposes of allocating resources to our segments and assessing their performance. Product contribution margin represents net sales less cost of sales and advertising and promotion expenses. Product contribution margin includes advertising and promotion expenses because those expenses are directly associated with the performance of our segments. Our management also uses Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA including unconsolidated joint ventures, Adjusted Diluted EPS, and Adjusted Net Income, to evaluate our performance excluding the impact of certain non-cash charges and other special items in order to have comparable financial results to analyze changes in our underlying business between reporting periods. We include these non-GAAP financial measures because management believes they are useful to investors in that they provide for greater transparency with respect to supplemental information used by management in its financial and operational decision making. We believe that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures, when used in conjunction with GAAP financial measures, is a useful financial analysis tool that can assist investors in assessing our operating performance and underlying prospects. These non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as alternatives for, GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures may differ from similarly titled non-GAAP financial measures presented by other companies, and other companies may not define these non-GAAP financial measures the same way. These measures are not a substitute for their comparable GAAP financial measures, such as gross profit, net income or diluted earnings per share, as applicable, and there are limitations to using non-GAAP financial measures. ​ See “Results of Operations – Fiscal Year Ended May 29, 2022 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended May 30, 2021 – Net Sales and Product Contribution Margin” above for a reconciliation of product contribution margin on a consolidated basis to gross profit. ​ 37 The following table reconciles net income to Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA including unconsolidated joint ventures. ​ ​ The following table reconciles net income to Adjusted Net Income, and diluted EPS to Adjusted Diluted EPS: ​ ​ ​ 38