********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have identified the following additional risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition or results of operations. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. Our business faces significant risks and the risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that are not presently known to us, that we currently believe are immaterial or that could apply generically to any company may also significantly impact our business operations. If any of these risks occur, our business prospects, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, the market price of our stock and the trading price of our debt securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment in our stock or debt securities. Risks Related to the COVID-19 Pandemic The COVID-19 pandemic and mitigation efforts to control the spread of the disease have materially impacted and are expected to continue to materially impact our business, and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by factors relating to COVID-19. In March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic, and the President of the United States proclaimed that the COVID-19 outbreak in the United States constituted a national emergency. Extraordinary actions were taken by federal, state and local governmental authorities to combat the spread of COVID-19, including issuance of “stay-at-home” directives and similar mandates for many individuals to substantially restrict daily activities and for many businesses to curtail or cease normal operations.  These measures, while intended to protect human life, led to significantly reduced economic activity and a surge in unemployment throughout the United States, including the markets where our properties are located. In April 2020, the national unemployment rate reached its highest level since the Great Depression, and in June 2020, the National Bureau of Economic Research officially declared that the United States had fallen into a recession. Although some economists believe that the United States economy is now no longer in a recession, the economy remains vulnerable.  A surge in new COVID-19 cases linked by public officials to increased travel and socializing over the holiday season seems to have begun to recede, but tens of thousands of new cases are still being reported daily nationwide.  COVID-19 vaccines have received emergency use authorization from the United States government, but vaccine distribution has been slower than public officials hoped and multiple variants of the virus that causes COVID-19 have been documented in the United States. Many jurisdictions continue to enforce orders restricting businesses’ normal operations, and reinstatement of broader “stay-at-home” directives and mandates remains a possibility. Our ability to lease our apartments and collect rental revenues is dependent upon national, regional and local economic conditions, particularly unemployment levels and personal income levels.  As unemployment rises and incomes fall, fewer people, including both current and prospective residents, may be able to afford our apartment communities, and it may be difficult for some of our residents to make timely rental payments to us under their leases. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and restrictions intended to prevent its spread could have significant adverse impacts on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows that are difficult to predict. Such adverse impacts will depend on, among other factors: 9 The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and the current economic, financial and capital markets environment present material risks and uncertainties for us.  However, the fluidity of the situation precludes any prediction as to the ultimate impact COVID-19 will have on our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows, which will depend largely on future developments directly or indirectly relating to the duration and scope of the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States. To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic adversely affects our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Real Estate Investments and Our Operations Unfavorable market and economic conditions could adversely affect occupancy levels, rental revenues and the value of our properties. Unfavorable market and economic conditions in the areas in which we operate may significantly affect our occupancy levels, our rental rates and collections, the value of our properties and our ability to acquire or dispose of apartment communities on economically favorable terms. Our ability to lease our apartment communities at favorable rates is adversely affected by the increase in supply in the multifamily and other rental markets and is dependent upon the overall level in the economy, which is adversely affected by, among other things, job losses and unemployment levels, personal debt levels, a downturn in the housing market, stock market volatility and uncertainty about the future. Some of our major expenses generally do not decline when related rents decline. We would expect that declines in our occupancy levels, rental revenues and/or the values of our apartment communities would cause us to have less cash available to make payments on our debt and to make distributions, which could adversely affect our financial condition or the market value of our securities. Factors that may affect our occupancy levels, our rental revenues and/or the value of our apartment communities include the following, among others: 10 Failure to generate sufficient cash flow could limit our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions. Our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions depends on our ability to generate cash flow in excess of operating costs and capital expenditure requirements and/or to have access to the markets for debt and equity financing. Our funds from operations may be insufficient because of factors that are beyond our control. Such events or conditions could include: At times, we have relied on external funding sources to fully fund the payment of distributions to shareholders and our capital investment program, including our existing property developments. While we have sufficient liquidity to permit distributions at current rates through additional borrowings, if necessary, any significant and sustained deterioration in operations could result in our financial resources being insufficient to make payments on our debt and to make distributions at the current rate, in which event we would be required to reduce the distribution rate. Any decline in our funds from operations could adversely affect our ability to make distributions or to meet our loan covenants and could have a material adverse effect on our stock price or the trading price of our debt securities. We are dependent on a concentration of our investments in a single asset class, making our results of operations more vulnerable to a downturn or slowdown in the sector or other economic factors. As of December 31, 2020, substantially all of our investments are concentrated in the multifamily sector. As a result, we will be subject to risks inherent in investments in a single type of property. A downturn or slowdown in the demand for multifamily housing may have more pronounced effects on our results of operations or on the value of our assets than if we had diversified our investments into more than one asset class. Our operations are concentrated in the Southeast, Southwest and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States; we are subject to general economic conditions in the regions in which we operate. As of December 31, 2020, approximately 40.1% of our portfolio was located in our top five markets:  Atlanta, Georgia; Dallas, Texas; Austin, Texas; Charlotte, North Carolina; and Orlando, Florida.  In addition, our overall operations are concentrated in the Southeast, Southwest and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States. Our performance could be adversely affected by economic conditions in, and other factors relating to, these geographic areas, including supply and demand for apartments in these areas, zoning and other regulatory conditions and competition from other communities and alternative forms of housing. In particular, our performance is disproportionately influenced by job growth and unemployment. To the extent the economic conditions, job growth and unemployment in any of these markets deteriorate or any of these areas experiences natural disasters, the value of our portfolio, our results of operations and our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions could be adversely affected. Substantial competition among apartment communities and real estate companies may adversely affect our revenues and acquisition and development opportunities. There are numerous other apartment communities and real estate companies, some of which may have greater financial and other resources than we have, within the market area of each of our communities that compete with us for residents and acquisition and development opportunities.  The number of competitive apartment communities and real estate companies in these areas could have a material effect on (1) our ability to rent our apartments and generate revenues, and (2) acquisition and development opportunities. The activities of these competitors could cause us to pay higher prices for new properties than we otherwise would have 11 paid or m ay prevent us from purchasing desired propert ies at all, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions. Failure to succeed in new markets may have adverse consequences on our performance. We may make acquisitions outside of our existing market areas if appropriate opportunities arise. Our historical experience in our existing markets does not ensure that we will be able to operate successfully in new markets, should we choose to enter them. We may be exposed to a variety of risks if we choose to enter new markets, including an inability to accurately evaluate local market conditions, to identify appropriate acquisition opportunities, to hire and retain key personnel and a lack of familiarity with local governmental and permitting procedures. In addition, we may abandon opportunities to enter new markets that we have begun to explore for any reason and may, as a result, fail to recover expenses already incurred. Environmental problems are possible and can be costly. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances in, on, around or under such property. Such laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of, or failure to properly remediate, hazardous, toxic substances or petroleum product releases may adversely affect the owner’s or operator’s ability to sell or rent the affected property or to borrow using the property as collateral. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances may also be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at a disposal or treatment facility, whether or not the facility is owned or operated by the person. Certain environmental laws impose liability for the release of asbestos-containing materials into the air, and third parties may also seek recovery from owners or operators of real property for personal injury associated with asbestos-containing materials and other hazardous or toxic substances. Federal and state laws also regulate the operation and subsequent removal of certain underground storage tanks. In connection with the current or former ownership (direct or indirect), operation, management, development or control of real property, we may be considered an owner or operator of such apartment communities or as having arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances and, therefore, may be potentially liable for removal or remediation costs, as well as certain other costs, including governmental fines, and claims for injuries to persons and property. Our current policy is to obtain a Phase I environmental study on each apartment community that we seek to acquire or develop, which generally does not involve invasive techniques such as soil or ground water sampling, and to proceed accordingly. We cannot assure you, however, that the Phase I environmental studies or other environmental studies undertaken with respect to any of our current or future apartment communities will reveal: Certain environmental laws impose liability on a previous owner of property to the extent that hazardous or toxic substances were present during the prior ownership period. A transfer of the property does not relieve an owner of such liability. Thus, we may have liability with respect to apartment communities previously sold by our predecessors or by us.  There have been a number of lawsuits against owners and operators of multifamily apartment communities alleging personal injury and property damage caused by the presence of mold in residential real estate. Some of these lawsuits have resulted in substantial monetary judgments or settlements. Insurance carriers have reacted to these liability awards by excluding mold-related claims from standard policies and pricing mold endorsements separately. We have obtained a separate pollution insurance policy that covers mold-related claims and have adopted programs designed to minimize the existence of mold in any of our apartment communities as well as guidelines for promptly addressing and resolving reports of mold. To the extent not covered by our pollution policy, the presence of mold could expose us to liability from residents and others if property damage or health concerns, or allegations thereof, arise. Operations from new acquisitions, development projects and redevelopment activities may fail to perform as expected. We intend to acquire, develop and redevelop apartment communities as part of our business strategy.  Newly acquired, developed or renovated properties may not perform as we expect.  We may also overestimate the revenue (or underestimate the expenses) that a new or repositioned property may generate.  The occupancy rates and rents at these properties may fail to meet our expectations underlying our investment. In addition, with respect to acquisitions, we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate acquired apartment communities and new personnel into our existing operations, and the failure to successfully integrate those apartment communities or personnel would result in inefficiencies that could adversely affect our expected return on our investments.  Likewise, we may acquire properties that are subject to liabilities or that have problems relating to environmental condition, state of title, physical condition or 12 compliance with zoning laws, building codes or other legal requirements and in each case, our acquisition may be without any, or with only limited, recourse with respect to unknown liabilities or conditions and we may be obligated to pay substantial sums to settle or cure it, which could adversely affect our cash flow and operating results . We are subject to certain risks associated with selling apartment communities, which could limit our operational and financial flexibility. We plan to sell apartment communities that no longer meet our long-term strategy.  However, adverse market conditions could limit our ability to sell properties when we want and to change our portfolio promptly to meet our strategic objectives.  Likewise, federal tax laws applicable to REITs limit our ability to profit on the sale of properties, and this limitation could prevent us from selling properties when market conditions are favorable.  From time to time, we may dispose of properties in transactions intended to qualify as “like-kind exchanges” under Section 1031 of the Code. If a transaction intended to qualify as a Section 1031 exchange is later determined to be taxable, we may face adverse consequences, and if the laws applicable to such transactions are amended or repealed, we may not be able to dispose of real properties on a tax deferred basis. Development and construction risks could impact our profitability. As of December 31, 2020, we had eight development communities under construction representing 2,607 units once complete. We may make further investments in these and other development communities as opportunities arise and may do so through joint ventures with unaffiliated parties.  Our development and construction activities are subject to the following risks: Increasing real estate taxes, utilities and insurance premiums may negatively impact operating results. As a result of our substantial real estate holdings, the cost of real estate taxes, utilities and insuring our apartment communities is a significant component of expense. Real estate taxes, utilities and insurance premiums are subject to significant increases and fluctuations, which can be widely outside of our control. For example, the potential impact of climate change and the increased risk of extreme weather events and natural disasters could cause a significant increase in our insurance premiums and adversely affect the availability of coverage.  If the costs associated with real estate taxes, utilities and insurance premiums should rise, without being offset by a corresponding increase in revenues, our results of operations could be negatively impacted, and our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions could be adversely affected. Short-term leases expose us to the effects of declining market rents and we may be unable to renew leases or relet units as leases expire. Our apartment leases are generally for a term of one year or less. As these leases typically permit the residents to leave at the end of the lease term without penalty, our revenues are impacted by declines in market rents more quickly than if our leases were for longer terms.  If we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet the units, or if the rental rates upon renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected rates, then our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. 13 We rely on information technology systems in our operations, and any breach or security failure of those systems could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. We rely on proprietary and third-party information technology systems to process, transmit and store information and to manage or support our business processes. We store and maintain confidential financial and business information regarding us and persons with which we do business on our information technology systems. We also collect and hold personally identifiable information of our residents and prospective residents in connection with our leasing and property management activities, and we collect and hold personally identifiable information of our employees in connection with their employment. In addition, we engage third party service providers that may collect and hold personally identifiable information of our residents, prospective residents and employees in connection with providing business services to us, including web hosting, property management, leasing, accounting, payroll and benefit services. The protection of the information technology systems on which we rely is critically important to us. We take steps, and generally require third party service providers to take steps, to protect the security of the information maintained in our and our service providers’ information technology systems, including the use of systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmitting and storing of the information. However, we face risks associated with breaches or security failures of the information technology systems on which we rely, which could result from, among other incidents, cyber-attacks or cyber-intrusions over the internet, malware, computer viruses or employee error or misconduct. This risk of a data breach or security failure, particularly through cyber-attacks or cyber-intrusion, has generally increased due to the rise in new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of the perpetrators of attempted attacks and intrusions. The security measures put in place by us and our service providers cannot provide absolute security and there can be no assurance that we or our service providers will not suffer a data security incident in the future, that unauthorized parties will not gain access to sensitive information stored on our or our service providers’ systems, that such access will not, whether temporarily or permanently, impact, interfere with or interrupt our operations, or that any such incident will be discovered in a timely manner. Even the most well-protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable as the techniques used in such attempted security breaches evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed to not be detected and, in fact, may not be detected.  In addition, third-party information technology providers may not provide us with fixes or updates to hardware or software in a manner as to avoid an unauthorized loss or disclosure or to address a known vulnerability, which may subject us to known threats or downtime as a result of those delays.  Accordingly, we and our service providers may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures. Further, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to enhance information security measures and internal processes and procedures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. A data security incident could compromise our or our service providers’ information technology systems, and the information stored by us or our service providers, including personally identifiable information of residents, prospective residents and employees, could be accessed, misused, publicly disclosed, corrupted, lost or stolen. Any failure to prevent a data breach or a security failure of our or our service providers’ information technology systems could interrupt our operations, result in downtime, divert our planned efforts and resources from other projects, damage our reputation and brand, damage our competitive position, make it difficult for us to attract and retain residents, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Similarly, if our service providers fail to use adequate security or data protection processes, or use personal data in an unpermitted or improper manner, we may be liable for certain losses and it may damage our reputation. Compliance or failure to comply with laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on our operations and the values of our properties. We must own, operate, manage, acquire, develop and redevelop our properties in compliance with numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations.  For example, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, the Fair Housing Act of 1988 and other federal, state and local laws generally require that public accommodations be made accessible to disabled persons. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the government or the award of damages to private litigants. These laws may require us to modify our existing apartment communities. These laws may also restrict renovations by requiring improved access to such buildings by disabled persons or may require us to add other structural features that increase our construction costs. We cannot ascertain the costs of compliance with these laws, which may be substantial. We do not know whether the legal requirements we are subject to will change or whether new requirements will be imposed.  Changes in laws and regulations could require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures and limit our ability to recover increases in operating expenses, impose limitations on our ability to increase rents or charge certain fees, impose limitations on our ability to enforce remedies for the failure to pay rent or otherwise adversely impact our operations.  For example, we have seen an increase in state and local governments implementing, considering or being urged by tenant advocacy groups to consider rent control or rent stabilization laws and regulations as well as tenants’ rights laws and regulations.  Any such future enactments in the markets in which we operate could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations and the value of our properties. 14 Legal proceedings that we become involved in from time to time could adversely affect our business. As an owner, operator and developer of multifamily apartment communities, we may become involved in various legal proceedings, including, but not limited to, proceedings related to commercial, development, employment, environmental, securities, shareholder, tenant or tort legal issues, some of which could result in a class action lawsuit.  For example, as described in more detail in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we are currently a defendant in two class action lawsuits relating to tenant late fee policies at our Texas apartment communities. Legal proceedings, if decided adversely to or settled by us, and not covered by insurance, could result in liability material to our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  Likewise, regardless of outcome, legal proceedings could result in substantial costs and expenses, affect the availability or cost of some of our insurance coverage and significantly divert the attention of our management. There can be no assurance that we will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, any pending or future legal proceedings to which we become subject. Extreme weather or natural disasters may cause significant damage to our properties and losses from catastrophes could exceed our insurance coverage. Many of our apartment communities are located in areas that may be subject to extreme weather and natural disasters, such as floods, hurricanes and earthquakes, the likelihood or frequency of which events could increase in part based on the impact of climate change.  Such events may cause significant damage to our properties, disrupt our operations and adversely impact our residents.  There can be no assurances that such conditions will not have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations or business. We carry property insurance on our apartment communities and intend to obtain similar coverage for apartment communities we acquire in the future. However, some losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as losses from floods, hurricanes or earthquakes, are subject to limitations, and therefore may be uninsured. We exercise our discretion in determining amounts, coverage limits and deductibility provisions of insurance, with a view to maintaining what we believe is appropriate insurance on our investments at a reasonable cost and on suitable terms. If we suffer a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement value of our lost investment. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed.  Any losses we experience that are not fully covered by our insurance may negatively impact our results of operations and may reduce the value of our properties. Acts of violence could decrease the value of our assets and could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our apartment communities could directly or indirectly be the location or target of actual or threatened terrorist attacks, crimes, shootings or other acts of violence, the occurrence of which could impact the value of our communities through damage, destruction, loss or increased security costs, as well as result in operational losses due to reduced rental demand, and the availability of insurance may be limited or may be subject to substantial costs.  If such an incident were to occur at one of our apartment communities, we may also become subject to significant liability claims. In addition, the adverse effects that actual or threatened terrorist attacks could have on national economic conditions, as well as economic conditions in the markets in which we operate, could similarly have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness and Financing Activities Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2020, the amount of our total debt was $4.6 billion. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future in connection with, among other things, our acquisition, development and operating activities. The degree of our leverage creates significant risks, including the following: 15 If any one of these events was to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may be unable to renew, repay or refinance our outstanding debt, which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to the normal risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest, the risk that either secured or unsecured indebtedness will not be able to be renewed, repaid or refinanced when due or that the terms of any renewal or refinancing will not be as favorable as the existing terms of such indebtedness. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms, if at all, we might be forced to dispose of one or more of our apartment communities on disadvantageous terms, which might result in losses to us. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions. Furthermore, if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose upon the property, appoint a receiver and receive an assignment of rents and leases or pursue other remedies, all with a consequent loss of our revenues and asset value. Foreclosures could also create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, thereby hindering our ability to meet the REIT distribution requirements of the Code. Rising interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We have incurred and expect in the future to incur indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. Interest rates could increase, which could result in higher interest expense on our variable-rate debt or increase interest rates when refinancing maturing fixed-rate debt, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions or cause us to be in default under certain debt instruments. In addition, an increase in market interest rates may lead holders of shares of our common stock to demand a higher yield on their shares from distributions by us, which could adversely affect the market price for our common stock. Any increase in the federal funds rate due to key economic indicators, such as the unemployment rate or inflation, may cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms. Any continued adverse economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The phase-out of LIBOR could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. LIBOR is the basic rate of interest used in lending between banks on the London interbank market and is widely used as a reference for setting the interest rate on loans globally.  LIBOR is the interest rate benchmark used as a reference rate on our unsecured revolving credit facility, although we had no borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2020. The ICE Benchmark Administration, the administrator of LIBOR, has announced that it plans to cease the publication of one-week and two-month U.S. dollar (USD) LIBOR immediately after December 31, 2021 and to cease the publications of the remaining tenors of USD LIBOR (one, three, six and 12-month) immediately after June 30, 2023. At this time, no consensus exists as to what rate or rates will become accepted alternatives to LIBOR. The U.S. Federal Reserve, in connection with the Alternative Reference Rates Committee, a steering committee comprised of large U.S. financial institutions, has endorsed replacing USD LIBOR with the Secured Overnight Financing Rate, or SOFR. SOFR is a more generic measure than LIBOR and considers the cost of borrowing cash overnight, collateralized by U.S. Treasury securities. However, U.S. banking regulators have indicated that financial institutions will be permitted to choose any benchmark rate to replace LIBOR. Given the inherent differences between LIBOR and SOFR or any other alternative benchmark rate that may be established, there are many uncertainties regarding a transition from LIBOR, including, but not limited to, how this will impact our cost of variable rate debt. The consequences of these developments with respect to LIBOR cannot be entirely predicted and will span multiple future periods but could result in an increase in the cost of our variable rate debt, which could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. We may incur additional debt in the future, which may adversely impact our financial condition. We currently fund the acquisition and development of apartment communities partially through borrowings (including our commercial paper program and revolving credit facility) as well as from other sources such as sales of apartment communities which no longer meet our investment criteria. In addition, we may fund other of our capital requirements through additional debt. Our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness that we may incur, and we may incur more debt in the future. Accordingly, subject to limitations on indebtedness set forth in various loan agreements and the indentures governing our senior notes, we could become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service and an increased risk of default on our obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, our ability to access debt and equity capital markets in the future and our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions. The restrictive terms of certain of our indebtedness may cause acceleration of debt payments. As of December 31, 2020, we had outstanding borrowings of $4.6 billion. Our indebtedness contains financial covenants as to interest coverage ratios, maximum secured debt, maintenance of unencumbered asset value, and total debt to gross assets, among others, and cross default provisions with other material debt. Our ability to comply with these financial covenants may be affected by 16 changes in our operating and financial performance, changes in general business and economic conditions, adverse regulatory developments or other events adversely impacting us. In the event that an event of default occurs, our lenders may declare borrowings under the respective loan agreements to be due and payable immediately, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions. A downgrade in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a significant amount of debt outstanding.  We are currently assigned corporate credit ratings from each of the three ratings agencies based on their evaluation of our creditworthiness.  These ratings are based on a number of factors, which include their assessment of our financial strength, liquidity, capital structure, asset quality and sustainability of cash flows and earnings.  If our credit ratings are downgraded or other negative action is taken, we could be required to pay additional interest and fees on our outstanding borrowings.  In addition, a downgrade may adversely impact our ability to borrow secured and unsecured debt and otherwise limit our access to capital, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Financing may not be available and could be dilutive. Our capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including the occupancy and turnover rates of our apartment communities, development and capital expenditures, costs of operations and potential acquisitions. We cannot accurately predict the timing and amount of our capital requirements. If our capital requirements vary materially from our plans, we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. We and other companies in the real estate industry have experienced limited availability of financing from time to time. Dislocations and liquidity disruptions in capital and credit markets could impact liquidity in the debt markets, which could result in financing terms that are less attractive to us and/or the unavailability of certain types of debt financing.  Likewise, disruptions could impede the ability of our counterparties to perform on their contractual obligations.  Should the capital and credit markets experience volatility and the availability of funds again becomes limited, or be available only on unattractive terms, we will incur increased costs associated with issuing debt instruments.  In addition, it is possible that our ability to access the capital and credit markets may be limited or precluded by these or other factors at a time when we would like, or need, to do so, which would adversely impact our ability to refinance maturing debt and/or react to changing economic and business conditions.  Uncertainty in the credit markets could negatively impact our ability to make acquisitions and make it more difficult or not possible for us to sell properties or may adversely affect the price we receive for properties that we do sell, as prospective buyers may experience increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing.  Potential continued disruptions in the financial markets could also have other unknown adverse effects on us or the economy generally and may cause the price of our securities to fluctuate significantly and/or to decline.  If we issue additional equity securities to obtain additional financing, the interest of our existing shareholders could be diluted. Risks Related to MAA’s Organization and Ownership of Its Stock MAA’s ownership limit restricts the transferability of its capital stock. MAA’s charter limits ownership of its capital stock by any single shareholder to 9.9% of the value of all outstanding shares of its capital stock, both common and preferred, unless approved by its Board of Directors. The charter also prohibits anyone from buying shares if the purchase would result in it losing REIT status. This could happen if a share transaction results in fewer than 100 persons owning all of its shares or in five or fewer persons, applying certain broad attribution rules of the Code, owning 50% or more of its shares. If an investor acquires shares in excess of the ownership limit or in violation of the ownership requirements of the Code for REITs, MAA: 17 The redemption price may be paid, at MAA’s option, by delivering one common unit (subject to adjustment from time to time in the event of, among other things, stock splits, stock dividends or recapitalizations affecting its common stock or certain mergers, consolidations or asset transfers by MAA) issued by the Operating Partnership for each excess share being redeemed. If an investor acquires shares in violation of the limits on ownership described above: Future offerings of debt or equity securities, which may rank senior to MAA’s stock, may adversely affect the market price of MAA’s stock. If we decide to issue additional debt securities in the future, which would rank senior to MAA’s common stock, it is likely that they will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Additionally, any equity securities or convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of MAA’s common stock and may result in dilution to owners of MAA’s common stock. We and, indirectly, MAA’s shareholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. Because our decision to issue debt or equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of any future offerings. Thus, holders of MAA’s common stock will bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of MAA’s common stock and diluting the value of their stock holdings. The form, timing and amount of dividend distributions in future periods may vary and be impacted by economic and other considerations. Though our Board of Directors has a history of declaring dividends in advance of the quarter they are paid, the form, timing and amount of dividend distributions will be declared, and standing practice changed, at the discretion of the Board of Directors.  The form, timing and amount of dividend distributions will depend on actual cash from operations, our financial condition, capital requirements, the annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Code and other factors as our Board of Directors may consider relevant. Our Board of Directors may modify our dividend policy from time to time. Provisions of MAA’s charter and Tennessee law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of MAA. Ownership Limit The 9.9% ownership limit discussed above may have the effect of precluding acquisition of control of MAA by a third party without the consent of our Board of Directors. Preferred Stock MAA’s charter authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock, 868,000 of which have been designated as 8.50% Series I Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, which we refer to as MAA Series I preferred stock. In addition to the MAA Series I preferred stock, the Board of Directors may establish the preferences and rights of any other series of preferred shares issued. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking control of MAA, even if a change in control were in MAA shareholders’ best interests. As of December 31, 2020, 867,846 shares of preferred stock were issued and outstanding, all of which shares were MAA Series I preferred stock. Tennessee Anti-Takeover Statutes As a Tennessee corporation, MAA is subject to various legislative acts, which impose restrictions on and require compliance with procedures designed to protect shareholders against unfair or coercive mergers and acquisitions. These statutes may delay or prevent offers to acquire MAA and increase the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if MAA’s acquisition would be in MAA shareholders’ best interests. Third-party expectations relating to environmental, social and governance factors may impose additional costs and expose us to new risks. We have a significant institutional investor base, and there is an increasing focus from institutional investors and other stakeholders on corporate responsibility, specifically related to environmental, social and governance, or ESG, factors. Some institutional investors may use these factors to guide their investment strategies, and many institutional investors focus on positive ESG business practices and may consider a company’s ESG score when making an investment decision.  In addition, many 18 institutional investors may use ESG scores to benchmark companies against their peers. Third-party providers of corporate responsibility ratings and reports on companies have increased in number, resulting in varied and in some cases inconsistent standards. In addition, the criteria by which companies’ ESG practices are assessed are evolving, which could result in greater expectations of us and cause us to undertake costly initiatives to satisfy any new criteria.  Alternatively, if we elect not to or are unable to satisfy new criteria or do not meet the criteria of a specific third-party provider, some investors may conclude that our ESG business practices are inadequate. We may face reputational damage in the event that our corporate responsibility standards do not meet the standards set by various stakeholders. In addition, in the event that we communicate certain ESG initiatives and goals, we could fail, or be perceived to have failed, in our achievement of our initiatives or goals, or we could be criticized for the scope of our initiatives or goals. If we fail to satisfy the ESG expectations of investors and other stakeholders or our initiatives are not executed as planned, our reputation and financial results and the market price of MAA’s common stock could be adversely affected. Market interest rates may have an adverse effect on the market value of MAA’s common stock. The market price of shares of common stock of a REIT may be affected by the distribution rate on those shares, as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of MAA’s common stock may expect a higher annual distribution rate. Higher interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for MAA to distribute and, in fact, would likely increase MAA’s borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. This could cause the market price of MAA’s common stock to go down. Changes in market conditions or a failure to meet the market’s expectations with regard to our results of operations and cash distributions could adversely affect the market price of MAA’s common stock. We believe that the market value of a REIT’s equity securities is based primarily upon the market’s perception of the REIT’s growth potential and its current and potential future cash distributions, and is secondarily based upon the real estate market value of the underlying assets. For that reason, MAA’s common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than the net asset value per share. To the extent we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of MAA’s common stock. In addition, we are subject to the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to pay distributions to MAA’s shareholders. Our failure to meet the market’s expectations with regard to future earnings and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of MAA’s common stock. The stock markets, including the NYSE, on which MAA lists its common stock, have, at times, experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. As a result, the market price of MAA’s common stock could be similarly volatile, and investors in MAA’s common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. The market price of MAA’s publicly traded securities may be affected by many factors, including, but not limited to the following: In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. 19 Risks Related to the Operating Partnership ’ s Organization and Ownership of OP Units The Operating Partnership’s existing unitholders have limited approval rights, which may prevent the Operating Partnership’s sole general partner, MAA, from completing a change of control transaction that may be in the best interests of all unitholders of the Operating Partnership and all shareholders of MAA. MAA may not engage in a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Operating Partnership, dissolve the Operating Partnership or, upon the occurrence of certain triggering events, take any action that would result in any unitholder realizing taxable gain, without the approval of the holders of a majority of the outstanding OP Units held by holders other than MAA or its affiliates, or Class A OP Units. The right of the holders of our Class A OP Units to vote on these transactions could limit MAA’s ability to complete a change of control transaction that might otherwise be in the best interest of all unitholders of the Operating Partnership and all shareholders of MAA. In certain circumstances, certain of the Operating Partnership’s unitholders must approve the Operating Partnership’s sale of certain properties contributed by the unitholders. In certain circumstances, as detailed in the partnership agreement of the Operating Partnership, the Operating Partnership may not sell or otherwise transfer certain properties unless a specified percentage of the limited partners who were partners in the limited partnership holding such properties at the time of its acquisition by us approves such sale or transfer. The exercise of these approval rights by the Operating Partnership’s unitholders could delay or prevent the Operating Partnership from completing a transaction that may be in the best interest of all unitholders of the Operating Partnership and all shareholders of MAA. MAA, its officers and directors have substantial influence over the Operating Partnership’s affairs. MAA, as the Operating Partnership’s sole general partner and acting through its officers and directors, has a substantial influence on the Operating Partnership’s affairs. MAA, its officers and directors could exercise their influence in a manner that is not in the best interest of the unitholders of the Operating Partnership. Also, MAA owns approximately 96.6% of the OP Units and as such, will have substantial influence on the outcome of substantially all matters submitted to the Operating Partnership’s unitholders for approval. Insufficient cash flow from operations or a decline in the market price of MAA’s common stock may reduce the amount of cash available to the Operating Partnership to meet its obligations. The Operating Partnership is subject to the risk that its cash flow will be insufficient to make payments on its debt and to make distributions to its unitholders, which may cause MAA to not have the funds to make distributions to its shareholders.  MAA’s failure to meet the market’s expectations with regard to future results of operations and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of its shares and thus potentially reduce MAA’s ability to contribute funds from issuances down to the Operating Partnership, resulting in a lower level of cash available for investment, to make payments on its debt or to make distributions to its unitholders. Risks Related to Tax Laws Failure to qualify as a REIT would cause us to be taxed as a corporation, which would significantly reduce funds available for distribution to shareholders. If MAA fails to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, MAA will be subject to federal income tax on its taxable income at regular corporate rates without the benefit of the dividends paid deduction applicable to REITs. In addition, unless MAA is entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, MAA would be ineligible to make an election for treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which it loses its qualification. The additional tax liability resulting from the failure to qualify as a REIT would significantly reduce or eliminate the amount of funds available for distribution to MAA’s shareholders. MAA’s failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair its ability to expand its business and raise capital, and would adversely affect the value of MAA’s common stock. MAA believes that it is organized and qualified as a REIT, and MAA intends to operate in a manner that will allow it to continue to qualify as a REIT. MAA cannot assure, however, that it is qualified or will remain qualified as a REIT. This is because qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations and involves the determination of a variety of factual matters and circumstances not entirely within MAA’s control. In addition, future legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the tax laws or the application of the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes or the federal income tax consequences of qualification as a REIT.  Even if MAA qualifies as a REIT, MAA will be subject to various federal, state and local taxes, including property taxes and income taxes on taxable income that MAA does not timely distribute to its shareholders. In addition, MAA may hold certain assets and engage in certain activities that a REIT could not engage in directly through its taxable REIT subsidiaries, or TRS, and those TRS will be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates on their taxable income without the benefit of the dividends paid deduction applicable to REITs. 20 Furthermore, we have a subsidiary that has elected to be treated as a REIT, and if our subsidiary REIT were to fail to qualify as a REIT, it is possible that we also would fail to qualify as a REIT unless we (or the subsidiary REIT) could qualify for certain relief provisions. The qualification of our subsidiary REIT as a REIT will depend on satisfaction, on an annual or quarterly basis, of numerous requirements set forth in highly technical and complex provisions of the Code for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. A determination as to whether such requirements are satisfied involves various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. The fact that we hold substantially all of our assets through the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries further complicates the application of the REIT requirements for us. No assurance can be given that our subsidiary REIT will qualify as a REIT for any particular year. If any REIT previously acquired by us failed to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would incur adverse tax consequences and our financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. In the past, we have acquired companies that operated in a manner intended to allow them to qualify as REITs for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If any such REIT previously acquired by MAA, referred to as a Merged REIT, is determined to have lost its REIT status at any time prior to its merger with MAA, MAA would be subject to serious adverse tax consequences, including: MAA is liable for any tax liability of a Merged REIT with respect to any periods prior to the merger of such Merged REIT with MAA. If a Merged REIT failed to qualify as a REIT, then in the event of a taxable disposition by MAA of an asset previously held by the Merged REIT during a specified period of up to 5 years following the merger of the Merged REIT with MAA, MAA will be subject to corporate income tax with respect to any built-in gain inherent in such asset as of the date of such merger. In addition, unless an applicable statutory relief provision applies, if a Merged REIT failed to qualify as a REIT for a taxable year, then the Merged REIT would not have been entitled to re-elect to be taxed as a REIT until the fifth taxable year following the year during which it was disqualified. Furthermore, if both MAA and a Merged REIT were “investment companies” under the “investment company” rules set forth in Section 368 of the Code at the time of the merger of MAA and such Merged REIT, the failure of MAA or such Merged REIT to have qualified as a REIT at the time of their merger could result in such merger being treated as taxable for federal income tax purposes. As a result of all these factors, the failure by a Merged REIT to have qualified as a REIT could jeopardize MAA’s qualification as a REIT and require the Operating Partnership to provide material amounts of cash to MAA to satisfy MAA’s additional tax liabilities and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on MAA’s business prospects, financial condition or results of operations and on MAA’s ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions. The Operating Partnership may fail to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We believe that the Operating Partnership qualifies, and has so qualified since its formation, as a partnership for federal income tax purposes and not as a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation. No assurance can be provided, however, that the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, will not challenge the treatment of the Operating Partnership as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in treating the Operating Partnership as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, then the taxable income of the Operating Partnership would be taxable at regular corporate income tax rates. In addition, the treatment of the Operating Partnership as a corporation would cause MAA to fail to qualify as a REIT. See “Failure to qualify as a REIT would cause us to be taxed as a corporation, which would significantly reduce funds available for distribution to shareholders” above. Certain dispositions of property by us may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a 100% penalty tax on any gain attributable to the disposition. Any gain resulting from a transfer of property that we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business would be treated for federal income tax purposes as income from a prohibited transaction that is subject to a 100% penalty tax.  Since we acquire properties for investment purposes, we do not believe that our occasional transfers or disposals of property would be considered prohibited transactions. Whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. As such, the IRS may contend that certain transfers or disposals of properties by us are prohibited transactions. If the IRS were to argue successfully that a transfer or disposition of property constituted a prohibited transaction, then we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to us from the prohibited transaction. In addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. A safe harbor to the characterization of the disposition of property as a prohibited transaction and the resulting imposition of the 100% tax is available; however, we cannot assure that we will be able to comply with such safe harbor in connection with any property dispositions. 21 Legislative or regulatory income tax changes related to REITs could materially and adversely affect us. The U.S. federal income tax laws and regulations governing REITs and their shareholders, as well as the administrative interpretations of those laws and regulations, are constantly under review and may be changed at any time, possibly with retroactive effect. No assurance can be given as to whether, when, or in what form changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws applicable to us and MAA’s shareholders may be enacted. Changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations of U.S. federal tax laws could adversely affect an investment in MAA’s stock.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion analyzes the financial condition and results of operations of both MAA and the Operating Partnership, of which MAA is the sole general partner and in which MAA owned a 96.6% interest as of December 31, 2020. MAA conducts all of its business through the Operating Partnership and its various subsidiaries.  This discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. MAA, an S&P 500 company, is a multifamily-focused, self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT. We own, operate, acquire and selectively develop apartment communities primarily located in the Southeast, Southwest and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States. As of December 31, 2020, we owned and operated 299 apartment communities through the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries, and we had an ownership interest in one apartment community through an unconsolidated real estate joint venture and had eight development communities under construction. In addition, as of December 31, 2020, 32 of our apartment communities included retail components. Our apartment communities were located across 16 states and the District of Columbia as of December 31, 2020. We report in two segments, Same Store and Non-Same Store and Other.  Our Same Store segment represents those apartment communities that have been owned and stabilized for at least 12 months as of the first day of the calendar year. Our Non-Same Store and Other segment includes recently acquired communities, communities being developed or in lease-up, communities undergoing extensive renovations, communities identified for disposition, communities that have incurred a significant casualty loss and stabilized communities that do not meet the requirements to be Same Store communities. Also included in our Non-Same Store and Other segment are non-multifamily activities.  Additional information regarding the composition of our segments is included in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Overview For the year ended December 31, 2020, net income available for MAA common shareholders was $251.3 million as compared to $350.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2019.  Results for the year ended December 31, 2020 included $2.6 million of non-cash income related to the fair value adjustment of the embedded derivative in the MAA Series I preferred shares and $1.0 million of gains related to the sale of real estate assets.  Results for the year ended December 31, 2019 included $17.9 million of non-cash income related to the embedded derivative in the MAA Series I preferred shares and $93.0 million of gains related to the sale of real estate assets.  Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020 increased 2.3% as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, driven by a 2.5% increase in our Same Store segment. Property operating expenses, excluding depreciation and amortization, for the year ended December 31, 2020 increased by 4.5% as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, driven by a 4.9% increase in our Same Store segment. The drivers of these changes are discussed below in the “Results of Operations” section. COVID-19 Developments We believe the best way we can help our residents is to work with those who have lost wages or compensation due to the COVID-19 pandemic so that they can remain in their homes. During 2020, we supported our impacted residents in need of assistance by: Our on-site leasing offices have remained open throughout the COVID-19 pandemic while adhering to orders and directives issued by state and local governments.  Since May 2020, we have conducted normal operations at our on-site leasing offices, permitting public access and walk-in traffic, subject to social distancing restrictions. Further, since May 2020, property amenities have been open as permitted by governmental orders, directives and guidelines. We have supported our associates with enhanced leave and sick time policies, enhanced flextime arrangements and additional COVID-19 paid time off, among other benefits. We continue to monitor and comply with the various federal, state and local laws, orders and directives issued in response to the COVID-19 pandemic that affect apartment owners and operators. Trends During the year ended December 31, 2020, revenue growth for our Same Store portfolio continued to be favorably impacted by in-place rents and the contribution of average effective rent per unit growth. The average effective rent per unit for our Same Store portfolio continued to increase from the prior year, up 2.6% for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019.  This growth was partially offset by a slightly lower average physical occupancy for our Same Store portfolio of 95.6%, as compared to the average physical occupancy of 95.9% achieved during the more normal operating conditions for the year ended December 31, 2019.  Average effective rent per unit represents the average of gross rent amounts, after the effect of leasing 26 concessions, for occupied apartment units plus prevalent market rates asked for unoccupied apartment units, divided by the total number of units. Leasing concessions represent discounts to the current market rate. We believe average effective rent per unit is a helpful measurement in evaluating average pricing; however, it does not represent actual rental revenue collected per unit. Average physical occupancy is a measurement of the total number of our apartment units that are occupied by residents, and it represents the average of the daily physical occupancy for the period. An important part of our portfolio strategy is to maintain diversity of markets, submarkets, product types and price points in the Southeast, Southwest and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States. This diversity tends to mitigate exposure to economic issues in any one geographic market or area. We believe that a well-balanced portfolio, including both urban and suburban locations, with a broad range of monthly rent price points, will perform well in “up” cycles as well as better weather “down” cycles. Through our investment in 36 defined markets, we are diversified across markets, urban and suburban submarkets and a variety of product types and monthly rent price points. The COVID-19 pandemic continues to disrupt the United States economy and we cannot predict when a full economic recovery will occur. Demand for apartments is primarily driven by general economic conditions in our markets and is particularly correlated to job growth.  Government restrictions implemented in response to the pandemic continue to drive high unemployment and limit the number of people looking to change their current living situation.  While our rent collections during the second half of the year ended December 31, 2020 increased as compared to the rent collections during the initial stages of the pandemic, for the full year, collections were lower than the year ended December 31, 2019.  The current environment could contribute to lower than normal rent collections in 2021 and continue to suppress demand for apartments, likely driving rent growth on new leases and renewals lower than it would be in a more normal economic environment. Current elevated supply levels could further affect rent growth for our portfolio, particularly for apartment communities located in urban submarkets.  Properties in suburban submarkets continue to be somewhat less impacted by supply, primarily because new development has been less prevalent in those submarkets. Markets throughout the country have been impacted differently by the pandemic.  The individual market economies continue to be at various stages of reopening and we expect them to stay this way for some period. Further, as new COVID-19 infections continue to occur in most areas of the country, including the markets where we operate, we are unable to predict if economies will continue to remain open or if they will be disrupted again in the near future.  As we move through this uncertain time, we believe that our portfolio strategy of maintaining a diversity of markets, submarkets, product types and price points will serve the company better in this environment than a more concentrated portfolio profile. Our focus during this challenging time has been on working with residents who have been financially impacted by the pandemic on rent payment flexibility. At a portfolio level, we have focused on using our pricing system to maintain strong occupancy. As noted above, average physical occupancy for our Same Store portfolio for the year ended December 31, 2020 was 95.6%, which we believe positions us well to manage through the current environment and as we continue through the typically slower winter leasing season. While access to the financial markets was initially disrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic, access has returned, particularly for high credit borrowers.  With our successful bond issuance in the third quarter of 2020, we demonstrated our ability to efficiently raise capital through the debt market and believe we could do the same in the equity market as necessary. However, a prolonged disruption of the markets or a decline in credit and financing conditions could negatively affect our ability to access capital necessary to fund our operations or refinance our limited near-term maturing debt. Results of Operations For the year ended December 31, 2020, we achieved net income available for MAA common shareholders of $251.3 million, a 28.2% decrease as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, and total revenue growth of $37.0 million, representing a 2.3% increase in property revenues as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019.  The following discussion describes the primary drivers of the decrease in net income available for MAA common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2020, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019.  A discussion of the results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 is found in Item 7 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, filed with the SEC on February 20, 2020, which is available free of charge on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov and on our website at https://www.maac.com, on the “For Investors” page under “Filings and Financials—Annual Reports”. Property Revenues The following table reflects our property revenues by segment for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 (dollars in thousands): 27 The increase in property revenues for our Same Store segment for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 was the primary driver of total property revenue growth.  The Same Store segment generated a 2.5% increase in revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020 , primarily a result of average effective rent per unit growth of 2.6% as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 . The rollout of the new high-speed bulk cable internet package contributed 0.6% in Same Store segment revenue growth . The decrease in property revenues from the Non-Same Store and Other segment for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 primarily resulted from decreased revenues from the disposition of five multifamily properties located in the Little Rock, Arkansas market during the fourth quarter of 2019, which marked our exit from that particular market. These decreases were partially offset by increased revenues from recently completed development properties. Property Operating Expenses Property operating expenses include costs for property personnel, building repairs and maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance, utilities, landscaping and other operating expenses. The following table reflects our property operating expenses by segment for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 (dollars in thousands): The increase in property operating expenses for our Same Store segment for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 was primarily driven by increases in real estate tax expense of $9.8 million, utilities expense of $5.4 million, insurance expense of $4.9 million and marketing expense of $3.5 million. The rollout of the new high-speed bulk cable internet package contributed 0.4% in expense growth for the Same Store segment and is reflected in the increase in utilities expense. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $510.8 million, an increase of $14.0 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019.  The increase was primarily driven by the recognition of depreciation expense associated with our development and redevelopment activities made in the normal course of business during the year ended December 31, 2020. Other Income and Expenses Property management expenses for the year ended December 31, 2020 were $52.3 million, a decrease of $2.7 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2020 were $46.9 million, an increase of $3.0 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $167.6 million, a decrease of $12.3 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease of 12 basis points in our effective interest rate, an increase in capitalized interest and a decrease in average daily debt outstanding during the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019.  The decrease in our effective interest rate was primarily due to debt retirements during the year ended December 31, 2020, which were retired with proceeds from unsecured debt issuances with lower effective interest rates over the same period. The increase in the capitalized interest expense was due to an increase in the number of development projects. We did not dispose of any apartment communities during the year ended December 31, 2020.  For the year ended December 31, 2019, we disposed of five apartment communities, resulting in gains on sale of depreciable real estate assets of $81.0 million.  During the year ended December 31, 2020, we disposed of one land parcel resulting in a gain on sale of non-depreciable real estate assets of $1.0 million.  During the year ended December 31, 2019 , we disposed of four land parcels resulting in gains on sale of non-depreciable real estate assets of $12.0 million. Other non-operating income for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $4.9 million of income, as compared to $23.0 million of income for the year ended December 31, 2019.  The decrease was primarily driven by the recognition of $2.6 million of non-cash income related to the fair value adjustment of the embedded derivative in the MAA Series I preferred shares during the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the recognition of $17.9 million of non-cash income related to the adjustment of the embedded derivative during the year ended December 31, 2019.  During the year ended December 31, 2020, we also recognized $5.6 million of non-cash income relating to an unconsolidated limited partnership and $3.5 million of COVID-19 related expenses in other non-operating income compared to $3.9 million of non-cash income relating to an unconsolidated limited partnership during the year ended December 31, 2019. Our COVID-19 related expenses consisted primarily of cleaning supplies, contract labor and COVID-19 related leave. 28 Funds from Operations and Core Funds from Operations Funds from operations, or FFO, a non-GAAP financial measure, represents net income available for MAA common shareholders (computed in accordance with the United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP) excluding gains or losses on disposition of operating properties and asset impairment, plus depreciation and amortization of real estate assets, net income attributable to noncontrolling interests and adjustments for joint ventures. Because noncontrolling interest is added back, FFO, when used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, represents FFO attributable to the Company. FFO should not be considered as an alternative to net income available for MAA common stockholders or any other GAAP measurement, as an indicator of operating performance or as an alternative to cash flow from operating, investing and financing activities as a measure of liquidity.  Management believes that FFO is helpful to investors in understanding our operating performance, primarily because its calculation excludes depreciation and amortization expense on real estate assets. We believe that GAAP historical cost depreciation of real estate assets is generally not correlated with changes in the value of those assets, whose value does not diminish predictably over time, as historical cost depreciation implies. While our calculation of FFO is in accordance with the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts’, or NAREIT’s, definition, it may differ from the methodology for calculating FFO utilized by other REITs and, accordingly, may not be comparable to such other REITs. Core FFO represents FFO as adjusted for items that are not considered part of our core business operations, such as adjustments related to the fair value of the embedded derivative in the MAA Series I preferred shares , gain or loss on sale of non-depreciable assets, adjustments for gains or losses from unconsolidated limited partnerships, net casualty gain or loss, gain or loss on debt extinguishment, non-routine legal costs and settlements, COVID-19 related costs and mark-to-market debt adjustments. While our definition of Core FFO may be similar to others in the industry, our methodology for calculating Core FFO may differ from that utilized by other REITs and, accordingly, may not be comparable to such other REITs. Core FFO should not be considered as an alternative to net income available for MAA common shareholders as an indicator of operating performance. We believe that Core FFO is helpful in understanding our core operating performance between periods in that it removes certain items that by their nature are not comparable over periods and therefore tend to obscure actual operating performance. The following table presents a reconciliation of net income available for MAA common shareholders to FFO and Core FFO for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, as we believe net income available for MAA common shareholders is the most directly comparable GAAP measure (dollars in thousands): Core FFO for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $761.4 million, an increase of $22.2 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, primarily as a result of an increase in property revenues of $37.0 million and decreases in interest expense of $12.3 million and property management expenses of $2.7 million.  The increases to Core FFO were offset by increases in property operating expenses, excluding depreciation and amortization, of $27.6 million and general and administrative expenses of $3.0 million. 29 Liquidity and Capital Resources Our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as well as general economic and market conditions, are the principal factors affecting our liquidity and capital resources. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $823.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to $781.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2019.  The increase in operating cash flows was primarily driven by our operating performance. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $484.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to $238.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2019.  The primary drivers of the change were as follows (dollars in thousands): The decrease in cash outflows for purchases of real estate and other assets was driven by the acquisition activity during the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019.  The increase in cash outflows for capital improvements, development and other was primarily driven by increased development capital spend as well as increased capital spend on our interior redevelopment program, Smart Home technology initiative and our amenity and common area upgrade program during the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease in cash inflows related to proceeds from disposition of real estate assets was primarily due to the sale of one land parcel during the year ended December 31, 2020, as compared to the sale of five apartment communities and four land parcels during the year ended December 31, 2019.  No apartment communities were sold during the year ended December 31, 2020. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $374.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to $524.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2019.  The primary drivers of the change were as follows (dollars in thousands): The decrease in cash outflows related to the net change in revolving credit facility resulted from no net borrowings during the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the decrease in net borrowings of $540.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2019.  The increase in cash inflows related to the net change in commercial paper resulted from the increase in net borrowings of $102.0 million on our commercial paper program during the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the increase in net borrowings of $70.0 million on our commercial paper program during the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease in cash inflows related to proceeds from notes payable primarily resulted from the issuance of $450.0 million of senior notes during the year ended December 31, 2020, as compared to the issuance of $850.0 million of senior notes and $191.3 million of property mortgages during the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease in cash outflows from principal payments on notes payable primarily resulted from the retirement of a $300.0 million term loan and $135.7 million of property mortgages during the year ended December 31, 2020, as compared to the retirement of $600.0 million in term loans, a $20.0 million tranche of senior notes and $30.4 million of property mortgages during the year ended December 31, 2019.  The increase in cash outflows from dividends paid on common shares primarily resulted from the increase in the dividend rate to $4.00 per share during the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the dividend rate of $3.84 per share during the year ended December 31, 2019. 30 Equity As of December 31, 2020, MAA owned 114,373,727 OP Units, comprising a 96.6% limited partnership interest in MAALP, while the remaining 4,057,657 outstanding OP Units were held by limited partners of MAALP other than MAA.  Holders of OP Units (other than MAA) may require us to redeem their OP Units from time to time, in which case we may, at our option, pay the redemption price either in cash (in an amount per OP Unit equal, in general, to the average closing price of MAA’s common stock on the NYSE over a specified period prior to the redemption date) or by delivering one share of MAA’s common stock (subject to adjustment under specified circumstances) for each OP Unit so redeemed.  MAA has registered under the Securities Act 4,057,657 shares of its common stock that, as of December 31, 2020, were issuable upon redemption of OP Units, in order for those shares to be sold freely in the public markets. We have entered into separate distribution agreements with each of J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, BMO Capital Markets Corp. and KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. to establish an ATM program allowing MAA to sell shares of its common stock from time to time into the existing market at current market prices or through negotiated transactions.  Under the ATM program, MAA has the authority to issue up to an aggregate of 4.0 million shares of its common stock, at such times to be determined by MAA.  The ATM program currently has a maturity of September 2021.  MAA has no obligation to issue shares through the ATM program. During the year ended December 31, 2020 , MAA did not sell any shares of common stock under its ATM program.  During the year ended December 31, 2019 , MAA sold 146,301 shares of common stock for net and gross proceeds of $19.6 million and $19.9 million, respectively, through its ATM program. As of December 31, 2020 , 3.9 million shares remained issuable under the ATM program. For more information regarding our equity capital resources, see Note 8 and Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Debt The following schedule reflects our fixed and variable rate debt outstanding as of December 31, 2020 (dollars in thousands): 31 The following schedule presents the contractual maturity dates of our outstanding debt, net of debt issuance costs, discounts , premiums and fair market value adjustments, as of December 31, 2020 (dollars in thousands): The following schedule reflects the interest rate maturities of our outstanding fixed rate debt, net of debt issuance costs, discounts, premiums and fair market value adjustments, as of December 31, 2020 (dollars in thousands): Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility & Commercial Paper In May 2019, MAALP closed on a $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks led by Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, or Wells Fargo, and fourteen other banks, which we refer to as the Credit Facility.  The Credit Facility replaced our previous unsecured revolving credit facility and includes an expansion option up to $1.5 billion.  The Credit Facility bears an interest rate of LIBOR, plus a spread of 0.75% to 1.45% based on an investment grade pricing grid.  The Credit Facility matures in May 2023 with an option to extend for two additional six-month periods.  As of December 31, 2020, there was no outstanding balance under the Credit Facility, while $3.4 million of capacity was used to support outstanding letters of credit. The Credit Facility serves as our primary source of short-term liquidity. In May 2019, MAALP established an unsecured commercial paper program, whereby it can issue unsecured commercial paper notes with varying maturities not to exceed 397 days up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding of $500.0 million. As of December 31, 2020, there was $172.0 million outstanding under the commercial paper program. Unsecured Senior Notes As of December 31, 2020, we had $3.7 billion of publicly issued unsecured senior notes and $222.0 million of privately placed unsecured senior notes outstanding. 32 In August 2020, MAALP publicly issued $450.0 million in aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes, maturing February 2031 with a coupon rate of 1.700% per annum , paid semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 of each year . Unsecured Term Loan In August 2020, we retired a $300.0 million unsecured term loan with a syndicate of banks led by Wells Fargo due in March 2022. Secured Property Mortgages We maintain secured property mortgages with various life insurance companies.  These mortgages are usually fixed rate and can range from five to 30 years in maturity.  As of December 31, 2020, we had $488.7 million of secured property mortgages.  In July 2020, we retired $63.6 million of mortgages associated with three apartment communities at maturity and $72.2 million of mortgages associated with four apartment communities prior to their October 2020 maturities. For more information regarding our debt capital resources, see Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Contractual Obligations The following table reflects our total contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2020, which consist of principal and interest on our long-term debt as well as operating leases (dollars in thousands): We have commitments, which are not reflected in the table above, to make additional capital contributions to two technology focused limited partnerships in which we hold equity interests.  The capital contributions may be called by the general partners at any time until February 2025 after giving appropriate notice. As of December 31, 2020, we had committed to make additional capital contributions totaling up to $19.2 million if and when called by the general partners of the limited partnerships and until February 2025. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, we had an ownership interest in a limited liability company that owns one apartment community comprised of 269 units, located in Washington, D.C. We also had ownership interests in two technology focused limited partnerships as of December 31, 2020. Our interests in these investments are unconsolidated and are recorded using the equity method as we do not have a controlling interest. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, we did not have any relationships, including those with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes.  In addition, we do not engage in trading activities involving non-exchange traded contracts. As such, we are not materially exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if we had engaged in such relationships. We do not have any relationships or transactions with persons or entities that derive benefits from their non-independent relationships with us or our related parties other than those disclosed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Insurance We carry comprehensive general liability coverage on our apartment communities, with limits of liability we believe are customary within the multifamily apartment industry, to insure against liability claims and related defense costs.  We also maintain insurance against the risk of direct physical damage to reimburse us on a replacement cost basis for costs incurred to repair or rebuild any property, including loss of rental income during the reconstruction period. 33 We renegotiated our insurance programs effective July 1, 2020 . We believe that the current property and casualty insurance program in place provides appropriate insurance coverage for financial protection against insurable risks such that any insurable loss experienced that can be reasonably anticipated would not have a significant impact on our liquidity, financial position or results of operations. Inflation Our resident leases at our apartment communities allow for adjustments in the rental rate at the time of renewal, which may enable us to seek rent increases.  The majority of our leases are for one year or less. The short-term nature of these leases generally serves to reduce our risk to adverse effects of inflation. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates A critical accounting policy is one that is both important to our financial condition and results of operations and that involves some degree of uncertainty.  The preceding discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP.  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make a number of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements.  On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions based upon historical experience and various other factors and circumstances.  We believe that our estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances; however, actual results may differ from these estimates and assumptions. We believe that the estimates and assumptions listed below are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations because they require the greatest subjective determinations and form the basis of accounting policies deemed to be most critical. Acquisition of real estate assets We account for our acquisitions of investments in real estate as asset acquisitions in accordance with Accounting Standards Update 2017-01, Business Combinations (Topic 805): Clarifying the Definition of a Business, which requires the cost of the real estate acquired to be allocated to the individual acquired tangible assets, consisting of land, buildings and improvements and other, and identified intangible assets, consisting of the value of in-place leases and other contracts, on a relative fair value basis. In calculating the total asset value of acquired tangible assets, management uses stabilized net operating income, or NOI, and market specific capitalization and discount rates. Management analyzes historical stabilized NOI to determine its estimate for forecasted NOI. Management estimates the market capitalization rate by analyzing the market capitalization rates for properties with comparable ages in similarly sized markets. Management then allocates the purchase price of the asset acquisition based on the relative fair value of the individual components as a proportion of the total assets acquired. Impairment of long-lived assets We account for long-lived assets in accordance with the provisions of accounting standards for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets. Management periodically evaluates long-lived assets, including investments in real estate, for indicators that would suggest that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. The judgments regarding the existence of such indicators are based on factors such as operating performance, market conditions and legal factors.  Long-lived assets, such as real estate assets, equipment, right-of-use lease assets and purchased intangibles subject to amortization, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset, which is estimated by analyzing historical cash flows of the asset.  If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the asset.  Management calculates the fair value of an asset by dividing projected cash flows based on historical operating cash flows by a market capitalization rate.  Management estimates the market capitalization rate by analyzing the market capitalization rates for properties with comparable ages in similarly sized markets.  No material impairment losses were recognized during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019. Cost capitalization In conformity with GAAP, we capitalize those expenditures that materially enhance the value of an existing asset or substantially extend the useful life of an existing asset. Expenditures necessary to maintain an existing property in ordinary operating condition are expensed as incurred. Therefore, repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred while significant improvements, renovations and replacements are capitalized. The cost to complete any deferred repairs and maintenance at properties acquired by us in order to elevate the condition of the property to our standards are capitalized as incurred. The carrying costs related to development projects, including interest, property taxes, insurance and allocated direct development salary costs during the construction period, are capitalized. Management uses judgment in determining whether costs should be expensed or capitalized. 34 Loss contingencies The outcomes of claims, disputes and legal proceedings are subject to significant uncertainty. Management records an accrual for loss contingencies when a loss is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. We also accrue an estimate of defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with legal matters. Management reviews these accruals quarterly and makes revisions based on changes in facts and circumstances. When a loss contingency is not both probable and reasonably estimable, then we do not accrue the loss. However, for material loss contingencies, if the unrecorded loss (or an additional loss in excess of the accrual) is at least a reasonable possibility and material, then management discloses a reasonable estimate of the possible loss, or range of loss, if such reasonable estimate can be made. If we cannot make a reasonable estimate of the possible loss, or range of loss, then a statement to that effect is disclosed. The assessment of whether a loss is probable or a reasonable possibility, and whether the loss or range of loss is reasonably estimable, often involves a series of complex judgments about future events. Among the factors that we consider in this assessment, including with respect to the matters disclosed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are the nature of existing legal proceedings and claims, the asserted or possible damages or loss contingency (if reasonably estimable), the progress of the matter, existing law and precedent, the opinions or views of legal counsel and other advisers, our experience in similar matters, the facts available to us at the time of assessment, and how we intend to respond, or have responded, to the proceeding or claim.  Management’s assessment of these factors may change over time as individual proceedings or claims progress. For matters where we are not currently able to reasonably estimate a range of reasonably possible loss, the factors that have contributed to this determination include the following: (i) the damages sought are indeterminate; (ii) the proceedings are in the early stages; (iii) the matters involve novel or unsettled legal theories or a large or uncertain number of actual or potential cases or parties; and/or (iv) discussions with the parties in matters that are expected ultimately to be resolved through negotiation and settlement have not reached the point where we believe a reasonable estimate of loss, or range of loss, can be made. In such instances, management believes that there is considerable uncertainty regarding the timing or ultimate resolution of such matters, including a possible eventual loss or business impact, if any. Valuation of embedded derivative The redemption feature embedded in the MAA Series I preferred stock is reported as a derivative asset and is adjusted to its fair value at each reporting date, with a corresponding non-cash adjustment to the income statement.  The derivative asset related to the redemption feature is valued using widely accepted valuation techniques, including a discounted cash flow analysis in which the perpetual value of the preferred shares is compared to the value of the preferred shares assuming the call option is exercised, with the value of the bifurcated call option as the difference between the two values. The analysis reflects the contractual terms of the redeemable preferred shares, which are redeemable at our option beginning on October 1, 2026 and at the redemption price of $50 per share. We use various inputs in the analysis, including trading data available on the preferred shares, coupon yields on preferred stock issuances from REITs with similar credit ratings as MAA and treasury rates to determine the fair value of the bifurcated call option. For more information regarding our significant accounting policies, including a brief description of recent accounting pronouncements that could have a material impact on our financial statements, see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.