********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Please carefully consider the following discussion of significant factors, events and uncertainties that make an investment in the Company’s securities risky and provide important information for the understanding of the “forward-looking” statements discussed in Item 7 of this Form 10-K and elsewhere. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K. The events and consequences discussed in these risk factors could, in circumstances the Company may not be able to accurately predict, recognize, or control, have a material adverse effect on Moody’s business, financial condition, operating results (including components of the Company’s financial results such as sales and profits), cash flows and stock price. These risk factors do not identify all risks that Moody’s faces. The Company could also be affected by factors, events, or uncertainties that are not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently does not consider to present significant risks. In addition to the effects of general economic conditions, including inflation and related monetary policy actions in response to inflation, changes in international conditions, including the impact of ongoing or new developments in the Russia-Ukraine military conflict and the military conflict in Israel and surrounding areas, and resulting global disruptions on our business and operations discussed in Item 7 of this Form 10-K and in the risk factors below, additional or unforeseen effects from the global economic climate may give rise to or amplify many of these risks discussed below. A. Legal and Regulatory Risks Moody’s Faces Risks Related to U.S. Laws and Regulations Applicable to the Financial Industry that Affect th e Credit Rating Industry and Moody’s Customers. Moody’s operates in a highly regulated industry and is subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the U.S., including the Reform Act and the Dodd-Frank Act. These regulations are complex, continually evolving and have tended to become more stringent over time. Additionally, changes in Congress may increase the uncertainty with regard to potential changes in these laws and regulations and the enforcement of any new or existing legislation or directives by government authorities. See “Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 of this annual report on Form 10-K for more information. The current laws and regulations: – seek to encourage, and may result in, increased competition among CRAs and in the credit rating business; – may result in alternatives to credit ratings or changes in the pricing of credit ratings; – restrict the use of information in the development or maintenance of credit ratings; – increase regulatory oversight of the credit markets and CRA operations; – provide the SEC with direct jurisdiction over CRAs that seek NRSRO status, and grant authority to the SEC to inspect the operations of CRAs; and – provide for enhanced oversight standards and specialized pleading standards, which may result in increases in the number of legal proceedings claiming liability for losses suffered by investors on rated securities and aggregate legal defense costs. If these laws and regulations, and any future rulemaking or court rulings, reduce demand for credit ratings or increase costs, Moody’s may be unable to pass such costs through to customers. In addition, there may be uncertainty over the scope, interpretation, administration and enforcement of such laws and regulations. The Company’s compliance and efforts to mitigate the risk of fines, penalties or other sanctions can result in significant expenses. Legal proceedings that are increasingly lengthy can result in uncertainty over and exposure to liability. It is difficult to accurately assess the future impact of legislative and regulatory requirements on Moody’s business and its customers’ businesses. For example, new laws and regulations may affect MIS’s communications with issuers as part of the rating assignment process, alter the manner in which MIS’s credit ratings are developed, assigned and communicated, affect the manner in which MIS or its customers or users of credit ratings operate, impact the demand for MIS’s credit ratings and alter the economics of the credit ratings business, including by restricting or mandating business models for CRAs. Further, speculation concerning the impact of legislative and regulatory initiatives and the increased uncertainty over potential liability and adverse legal or judicial determinations may negatively affect Moody’s stock price. Although these legislative and regulatory initiatives apply to CRAs and credit markets generally, they may affect Moody’s in a disproportionate manner. Each of these developments increase the costs and legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings and can have a material adverse effect on Moody’s operations, profitability and competitiveness, the demand for credit ratings and the manner in which such ratings are utilized. MOODY'S 2023 10-K     25 In addition, MA derives a significant amount of its sales from banks and other financial services providers who are subject to regulatory oversight. U.S. banking regulators, including the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, as well as many state agencies, have issued guidance to insured depository institutions and other providers of financial services on assessing and managing risks associated with third-party relationships, which include all business arrangements between a financial services provider and another entity, by contract or otherwise, and generally requires banks and financial services providers to exercise comprehensive oversight throughout each phase of a bank or financial service provider’s business arrangement with third-party service providers, and instructs banks and financial service providers to adopt risk management processes commensurate with the level of risk and complexity of their third-party relationships. In light of this, MA’s existing or potential bank and financial services customers subject to this guidance have sought to and may further revise their third-party risk management policies and processes and the terms on which they do business with MA. This can result in delayed or reduced sales to such customers, adversely affect MA’s relationship with such customers, increase the costs of doing business with such customers and/or result in MA assuming greater financial and legal risk under its agreements with such customers. Moody’s Faces Risks Related to Financial Reforms Outside the U.S. Affecting the Credit Rating Industry, Moody’s Businesses, and Moody’s Customers. In addition to the extensive and evolving U.S. laws and regulations governing the credit rating industry, foreign jurisdictions have taken measures to regulate CRAs and the markets for credit ratings. In particular, the EU has adopted a common regulatory framework for CRAs operating in the EU and continues to monitor the credit rating industry and analyze approaches that may strengthen existing regulation. Credit ratings emanating from outside the EU are subject to ESMA’s oversight if they are endorsed into the EU, and ratings endorsed into the U.K. are similarly subject to oversight of the FCA. Additionally, other foreign jurisdictions have taken measures to increase regulation of CRAs and markets for credit ratings. See “Regulation” in Part 1, Item 1 of this annual report on Form 10-K for more information. The EU and other jurisdictions, as discussed further below, adopt legislation and engage in rulemaking on an ongoing basis that significantly impacts operations and the markets for the Company ’ s products and services. Future laws and regulations could extend to products and services not currently regulated. These regulations could: – affect the need for debt securities to be rated; – expand supervisory remits to include credit ratings issued outside the home jurisdiction and used for regulatory purposes; – increase the level of competition in the market for credit ratings, including the distribution of credit ratings; – establish criteria for credit ratings or limit the entities authorized to provide credit ratings; – restrict the collection, use, accuracy, correction and sharing of personal information by CRAs; or – regulate pricing (for example to require fees that are based on costs and are non-discriminatory) on products and services provided by MA such as those products that incorporate credit ratings and research originated by MIS. Future regulations could also affect products and services the Company offers that incorporate or are based on artificial intelligence technologies. As part of the legislative package on sustainable finance, in June 2023, the European Commission published a proposal on the transparency and integrity of ESG rating activities. The Council of the European Union, in December 2023, agreed its position on the draft regulation, which would subject ESG rating and/or score providers to formal regulation and supervision by ESMA. The draft regulation is now set for negotiations between the European Council and Parliament and is expected to be adopted in 2024. Following the Brexit implementation period that ended December 31, 2020, the MIS U.K. registered CRA ceased to be registered with and regulated by ESMA and became subject to regulation by the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”). MIS put arrangements in place to endorse its U.K. credit ratings into the EU and its EU credit ratings into the U.K. On December 31, 2020, the U.K. also onshored the EU CRA Regulation, with certain necessary modifications, into U.K. domestic law (the “U.K. CRA Regulation”). The U.K. CRA Regulation contains requirements for the registration, regulation and supervision of CRAs based in the U.K. It also sets out the circumstances in which U.K. financial institutions can use credit ratings for regulatory purposes, as well as specific obligations for issuers, originators and sponsors relating to structured finance instruments. It is unclear if the regulation of CRAs in the EU and the U.K. will differ over time, and divergent regulation between the EU and the U.K. over time or differing interpretations by the FCA and ESMA of CRA regulation could adversely affect MIS’s business through additional operating obligations and resulting increased cost. In February 2022, the FCA published a portfolio letter on its CRA supervision strategy. Among other things, the FCA explained that it takes a holistic approach to supervising CRAs. This means that if a CRA or the group to which it belongs also carries on unregulated activities (for example, ESG ratings), the FCA may assess these unregulated activities as part of its supervision of regulated activities. CRAs need to be able to demonstrate that they have considered, and are actively managing, potential risks from any unregulated activities. The FCA also identified its supervisory priorities for CRAs, which consist of: ratings process and methodologies; governance and oversight; market and perimeter risks; and operational resilience and resourcing. In March 2023, the FCA initiated a review of competition in the markets for certain types of wholesale market data. Credit rating data is included as one element of the FCA’s review. In August 2023, the FCA published an update, determining that its findings did not require a referral to the U.K. Competition & Markets Authority. However, the FCA also stated that it would continue its analysis and announce any potential remedies in its final report due on or before March 1, 2024. 26 MOODY'S 2023 10-K Additionally, HM Treasury published a consultation in March 2023 proposing to make firms providing ESG ratings and/or scores to U.K. users (both from the U.K. and abroad) subject to FCA supervision. The proposals mirror the IOSCO recommendations on ESG ratings and data products providers. It is unclear if and when the U.K. Government might seek to move forward legislation to enable the FCA to supervise such firms. The U.K. is also currently developing a voluntary industry-led Code of Conduct for ESG ratings and data providers. The precise scope and impact of the regulatory developments related to ESG in Europe remain unclear; however, the Company continues to assess the potential impact on both MA and MIS. Both of Moody’s segments face risks related to financial reforms outside the U.S. affecting the credit rating industry, Moody’s businesses, and Moody’s customers. For example: – MIS is a registered entity and is therefore subject to formal regulation and periodic or other inspections in the EU and other foreign jurisdictions, such as, but not limited to, Hong Kong and China, where it operates through registered subsidiaries. – In the EU and the U.K., applicable rules include procedural requirements with respect to credit ratings of sovereign issuers, liability for intentional or grossly negligent failure to abide by applicable regulations, mandatory rotation requirements of CRAs hired by issuers of securities for credit ratings of resecuritizations, and restrictions on CRAs or their shareholders if certain ownership thresholds are crossed. Additional procedural and substantive requirements include conditions for the issuance of credit ratings, rules regarding the organization of CRAs, restrictions on activities deemed to create a conflict of interest, including requirements that fees be based on costs and non-discriminatory, and special requirements for credit ratings of structured finance instruments. – In Hong Kong, applicable rules include liability for the intentional or negligent dissemination of false and misleading information and procedural requirements for the notification of certain matters to regulators. In addition, MIS Hong Kong is subject to a code of conduct applicable to CRAs that imposes procedural and substantive requirements on the preparation and issuance of credit ratings, restrictions on activities deemed to create a conflict of interest including the disclosure of its compensation arrangements with rated entities and special requirements for credit ratings of structured finance instruments. A failure to comply with these procedural and substantive requirements also exposes MIS Hong Kong to the risk of regulatory enforcement action which could result in financial penalties or, in serious cases, affect its ability to conduct credit rating activities in Hong Kong. – In China, while MIS is not a licensed CRA, it does issue global credit ratings on Chinese issuers from offices outside of China. In addition, the Company holds a 30% investment in CCXI, a domestic CRA licensed in China. China has laws applicable to domestic CRAs as well as foreign investment in such entities and entities in general (including national security review). MA is licensed in China to provide subscriptions to credit research and ratings data and other information relevant to the financial markets. Such laws are broadly crafted and the implementation, interpretation and enforcement of such laws are subject to the broad discretion of Chinese regulators, which could affect the Company’s ability to conduct business in China. – In addition, U.S. economic sanctions have increasingly targeted Chinese persons. In response, China issued a blocking statute that establishes a framework for limiting the effect of foreign sanctions on Chinese persons. Blocking statutes typically create conflicts of law. An entity that is subject to conflicting laws in multiple jurisdictions may need to determine a means to comply with such laws. Such conflicts could eventually affect the ability of entities to adhere to applicable laws. With respect to MA, regulators in Europe and other foreign markets in which MA is active have issued guidance similar to that issued in the U.S. relating to financial institutions’ assessment and management of risks associated with third-party relationships. In light of this, MA’s existing or potential bank and financial services customers subject to this guidance have sought and may further revise their third-party risk management policies and processes and the terms on which they do business with MA. This can result in delayed or reduced sales to such customers, adversely affect MA’s relationship with such customers, increase the costs of doing business with such customers and/or result in MA assuming greater financial and legal risk under its agreements with such customers. Although Moody’s will monitor developments related to financial reforms outside the U.S. affecting the credit rating industry and Moody’s customers, Moody’s cannot predict the extent of such future laws and regulations, and the effect that they will have on Moody’s business or the potential for increased exposure to liability could be significant. For example, compliance with the EU, U.K. and other foreign regulations may increase costs of operations and could have a significant negative effect on Moody’s operations, profitability or ability to compete, or the markets for its products and services, including in ways that Moody’s presently is unable to predict. In addition, exposure to increased liability under the EU, U.K. regulations and regulations of other foreign jurisdictions may further increase costs and legal risks associated with the issuance of credit ratings and materially and adversely impact Moody’s results of operations. Financial reforms in the EU, U.K. and other foreign jurisdictions may have a material adverse effect on Moody’s business, operating results and financial condition. The Company Faces Exposure to Litigation and Government Regulatory Proceedings, Investigations and Inquiries Related to Rating Opinions and Other Business Practices. Moody’s faces exposure to litigation and government and regulatory proceedings, investigations and inquiries related to MIS’s ratings actions, as well as other business practices and products within both MIS and MA. When the market value of credit-dependent instruments has declined or defaults have occurred, whether as a result of difficult economic times, turbulent markets or otherwise, the number of investigations and legal proceedings that Moody’s has faced has increased significantly. Parties who invest in securities rated by MIS have pursued claims against MIS or Moody’s for losses they faced in their portfolios. For instance, MOODY'S 2023 10-K     27 Moody’s faced numerous class action lawsuits and other litigation, government investigations and inquiries concerning events linked to the U.S. subprime residential mortgage sector and broader deterioration in the credit markets during the financial crisis of 2007-2008. Evolving expectations on ESG disclosures and reporting could also result in increased regulatory scrutiny and new regulatory actions at a corporate and business unit level. MA’s offering of products and services relating to sanctions, KYC and financial crime may result in increased regulatory scrutiny and could expose the Company to increased risk of litigation from data subjects and other third-parties. Additionally, as Moody’s develops its Gen AI product offerings and/or its uses of Gen AI, the Company may face increased regulatory scrutiny and exposure to increased litigation. Legal proceedings and regulatory inquiries and investigations impose additional expenses on the Company and require the attention of senior management to an extent that may significantly reduce their ability to devote time to addressing other business issues, and any of these proceedings, investigations or inquiries could ultimately result in adverse judgments, damages, fines, penalties or activity restrictions. Risks relating to legal proceedings are heightened in foreign jurisdictions that lack the legal protections or liability standards comparable to those that exist in the U.S. In addition, new laws and regulations have been and may continue to be enacted that establish lower liability standards, shift the burden of proof or relax pleading requirements, thereby increasing the risk of successful litigations in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions. These litigation risks are often difficult to assess or quantify. Moody’s may not have adequate insurance or reserves to cover these risks, and the existence and magnitude of these risks often remains unknown for substantial periods of time. Furthermore, when Moody’s is unable to achieve dismissals at an early stage and litigation matters proceed to trial, the aggregate legal defense costs incurred by Moody’s increase substantially, as does the risk of an adverse outcome. Additionally, as litigation or the process to resolve pending matters progresses, Moody’s will continue to review the latest information available and may change its accounting estimates, which could require Moody’s to record or increase liabilities in the consolidated financial statements in future periods. See Note to the consolidated financial statements for more information regarding ongoing investigations and civil litigation that the Company currently faces. Due to the number of these proceedings and the significant amount of damages sought, there is a risk that Moody’s will be subject to judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other adverse results that have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. The Company Is Exposed to Risks Related to Its Compliance and Risk Management Programs. Moody’s operates in a number of countries, and as a result the Company is required to comply with and quickly adapt to numerous international and U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations. The Company’s ability to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including anti-corruption, antitrust and securities trading laws, the Reform Act, the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations thereunder, is largely dependent on its establishment and maintenance of compliance, review and reporting systems, as well as its ability to attract and retain qualified compliance and risk management personnel. Moody’s policies and procedures to identify, evaluate and manage the Company’s risks, including risks resulting from acquisitions, may not be fully effective, and Moody’s employees or agents may engage in misconduct, fraud or other errors. It is not always possible to deter such errors, and the precautions the Company takes to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. If Moody’s employees violate its policies or if the Company’s risk management methods are not effective, the Company may be subject to criminal and civil liability, the suspension of the Company’s employees, fines, penalties, regulatory sanctions, injunctive relief, exclusion from certain markets or other penalties, and may suffer harm to its reputation, financial condition and operating results. Moody’s Faces Risks Related to Protecting Its Intellectual Property Rights. Moody’s considers many aspects of its products and services to be proprietary. Failure to protect the Company’s intellectual property adequately could harm its reputation and affect the Company’s ability to compete effectively. Businesses the Company acquires also involve intellectual property portfolios, which increase the challenges the Company faces in protecting its strategic advantage. In addition, the Company’s operating results can be adversely affected by inadequate or changing legal and technological protections for intellectual property and proprietary rights in some jurisdictions and markets, including if and how rights in these markets evolve to address advances in LLMs and Gen AI. The lack of strong legal and technological intellectual property protections in foreign jurisdictions in which we operate may increase our vulnerability and may pose risks to our business. From time to time, laws are passed that require publication of certain information, in some cases at no cost, that the Company considers to be its intellectual property and that it currently sells or licenses for a fee, which could result in lost revenue. Unauthorized third parties may also try to obtain and use technology or other information that the Company regards as proprietary. It is also possible that Moody’s competitors or other entities could obtain patents related to the types of products and services that Moody’s offers, and attempt to require Moody’s to stop developing or marketing the products or services, to modify or redesign the products or services to avoid infringing, or to obtain licenses from the holders of the patents in order to continue developing and marketing the products and services. Even if Moody’s attempts to assert or protect its intellectual property rights through litigation, it may require considerable cost, time and resources to do so, and there is no guarantee that the Company will be successful. The Company’s ability to establish, maintain and protect its intellectual property and proprietary rights against theft, misappropriation or infringement could be materially and adversely affected by insufficient and/or changing proprietary rights and intellectual property legal protections in some jurisdictions and markets. These risks, and the cost, time and resources needed to address them, may increase as the Company’s business grows and its profile rises in countries with intellectual property regimes that are less protective than the rules and regulations applied in the United States. Moody’s Faces Risks Related to Tax Matters, Including Changes in Tax Rates or Tax Rules. As a global company, Moody’s is subject to taxation in the United States and various other countries and jurisdictions. As a result, our effective tax rate is determined based on the taxable income and applicable tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates. Moody’s future tax rates could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in countries or states with 28 MOODY'S 2023 10-K differing tax rates or other factors, including by increased earnings in jurisdictions where Moody’s faces higher tax rates, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which Moody’s is not able to realize the related tax benefit, or changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Changes in the tax, accounting and other laws, treaties, regulations, policies and administrative practices, or changes to their interpretation or enforcement, including changes applicable to multinational corporations such as the Base Erosion Profit Shifting and the global minimum tax rate initiatives being led by the OECD, which requires companies to disclose more information to tax authorities on operations around the world, and the EU’s state aid rulings, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s effective tax rate, results of operations and financial condition and may lead to greater audit scrutiny of profits earned in various countries. In addition, Moody’s is subject to regular examination of its income tax returns by the IRS and other tax authorities around the world. Moody’s regularly assesses the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes, including unrecognized tax benefits; however, developments in an audit or litigation could materially and adversely affect the Company. Although the Company believes its tax estimates and accruals are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different than the treatment reflected in its income tax provisions, accruals and unrecognized tax benefits, which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. During 2023, multiple foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates have enacted legislation to adopt a minimum tax rate described in the GloBE or Pillar Two, tax model rules issued by the OECD. A minimum ETR of 15% would apply to multinational companies with consolidated revenue above €750 million with an effective date beginning in 2024. Under the GloBE rules, a company would be required to determine a combined ETR for all entities located in a jurisdiction. If the jurisdictional tax rate is less than 15%, an additional tax will be due to bring the jurisdictional effective tax rate up to 15%. While the Pillar Two minimum tax requirement is not currently anticipated to have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations or financial position, management is evaluating and will continue to monitor the potential impact of the Pillar Two global minimum tax proposals on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. B. Risks Related to our Business The Company is Exposed to Legal, Economic, Operational and Regulatory Risks of Operating in Multiple Jurisdictions. Moody’s conducts operations in various countries outside the U.S. and derives a significant portion of its revenue from foreign sources. Changes in the economic condition of the various foreign economies in which the Company operates have an impact on the Company’s business. For example, economic uncertainty in the Eurozone or elsewhere, including, but not limited to, in Latin America, China or the Middle East, affects the number of securities offerings undertaken within those particular areas. In addition to the risks addressed elsewhere in this section, operations abroad expose Moody’s to a number of legal, economic and regulatory risks such as: – economic and geopolitical events and market conditions, such as the Russia-Ukraine military conflict and the military conflict in Israel and surrounding areas, including the effect of these events and conditions on customers, customer retention and demands for our products and services; – exposure to exchange rate movements between foreign currencies and USD; – restrictions on the ability to convert local currency into USD and the costs, including the tax impact, of repatriating cash held by entities outside the U.S.; – U.S. laws affecting overseas operations, including domestic and foreign export and import restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions, such as those related to the U.S.’s relationship with China and embargoes and sanctions laws with respect to Russia, including the Russia-Ukraine military conflict; – differing and potentially conflicting legal or civil liability, compliance and regulatory standards; – current and future regulations relating to the imposition of mandatory rotation requirements on CRAs hired by issuers of securities; – uncertain, evolving and new laws and regulations, including those applicable to the financial services industries, such as the European Union’s upcoming implementation of DORA in January 2025, and to the protection of intellectual property and to the emergence of LLMs in the context of Gen AI and other technologies, such as the EU AI Act, including the effect of these laws and regulations on our customers and on the products and services that we offer; – uncertainty regarding the future relationship and increasing tensions between the U.S. and China, which may result in further restrictions or actions by the U.S. government with respect to doing business in China and/or by the Chinese government with respect to business conducted by foreign entities in China; – the possibility of nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions; – competition with CRAs that have greater familiarity, longer operating histories and/or support from local governments or other institutions; – uncertainties in obtaining data and creating products and services relevant to particular geographic markets; – reduced protection for intellectual property rights; MOODY'S 2023 10-K     29 – longer payment cycles and possible problems in collecting receivables; – differing accounting principles and standards; – difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; – difficulties and delays in translating documentation into foreign languages; – potentially adverse tax consequences; and – complexities of compliance with employment laws, various proposed and enacted data privacy laws, and cybersecurity rules in numerous jurisdictions. Additionally, Moody’s is subject to complex U.S., foreign and other local laws and regulations that are applicable to its operations abroad, such as laws and regulations governing economic and trade sanctions, tariffs, embargoes, and anticorruption including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 and other similar local laws. The internal controls, policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs to deter prohibited practices the Company has implemented may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies or from material violations of applicable laws and regulations. Any determination or allegations, even if unfounded, that the Company has violated sanctions, anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on Moody’s business, operating results and financial condition. Compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to the Company’s international operations increases the cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. Violations of such laws and regulations may result in severe fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies and restrictions on business conduct and could have a material adverse effect on Moody’s reputation, its ability to attract and retain employees, its business, operating results and financial condition. Moody’s Operations are Exposed to Risks from Infrastructure Malfunctions or Failures. Moody’s ability to conduct business may be materially and adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports its businesses and the communities in which Moody’s is located, including: (i) New York City, the location of Moody’s headquarters, (ii) major cities worldwide in which Moody’s has offices, (iii) locations that may be affected by the Russia-Ukraine military conflict and the military conflict in Israel and surrounding areas; and (iv) locations in China used for certain Moody’s work. This may include a disruption involving physical or technological infrastructure (whether or not controlled by the Company), including the Company’s electronic delivery systems, the Company's data center facilities, or the Internet, used by the Company or third parties with or through whom Moody’s conducts business. Many of the Company’s products and services are delivered electronically and the Company’s customers depend on the Company’s ability to receive, store, process, transmit and otherwise rapidly handle very substantial quantities of data and transactions on computer-based networks. Some of Moody’s operations require complex processes and the Company’s extensive controls to reduce the risk of error inherent in our operations cannot eliminate such risk completely. To the extent the Company grows through acquisitions, newly acquired businesses may not have invested in technological infrastructure and disaster recovery to the same extent as Moody's has. As their systems are integrated into Moody's, a vulnerability could be introduced, which could impact platforms across the Company. The Company’s customers also depend on the continued capacity, reliability and security of the Company’s telecommunications, data centers, networks and other electronic delivery systems, including its websites and connections to the Internet. The Company’s employees also depend on these systems for internal use. Any significant failure, compromise, cyber-breach, interruption or a significant slowdown of operations of the Company’s infrastructure, whether due to human error, capacity constraints, hardware failure or defect, weather (including climate change), natural disasters, fire, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, acts of terrorism, political unrest, pandemic, war or otherwise, may impair the Company’s ability to deliver its products and services. Moody’s efforts to secure and plan for potential disruptions of its major operating systems may not be successful. The Company relies on third-party providers, including, increasingly, cloud-based service providers, to provide certain essential services. While the Company believes that such providers are reliable, the Company has limited control over the performance of such providers. To the extent any of the Company’s third-party providers ceases to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner or fails to adequately expand its services to meet the Company’s needs and the needs of the Company’s customers, the Company could experience lower revenues and higher costs. Additionally, although the Company maintains processes to prevent, detect and recover from a disruption, the Company also does not have fully redundant systems for most of its smaller office locations and low-risk systems, and its disaster recovery plan does not include restoration of non-essential services. If a disruption occurs in one of Moody’s locations or systems and its personnel in those locations or those who rely on such systems are unable to utilize other systems or communicate with or travel to other locations, such persons’ ability to service and interact with Moody’s customers will suffer. The Company cannot predict with certainty all of the adverse effects that could result from the Company’s failure, or the failure of a third party, to efficiently address and resolve these delays and interruptions. A disruption to Moody’s operations or infrastructure may have a material adverse effect on its reputation, business, operating results and financial condition. 30 MOODY'S 2023 10-K The Economics of the Company’s Business is Dependent on the Volume of Debt Securities Issued in Domestic and/or Global Capital Markets. Recent Financial Market Conditions, Including Decreased Asset Levels and Flows into Investment Vehicles, Increases in Interest Rates and Other Volatility Has Had, and May Continue to Have, a Material Adverse Impact on the Volume of Debt Securities Issued. Moody’s business is impacted by general economic conditions and volatility in world financial markets. Furthermore, issuers of debt securities have increasingly elected to issue securities without ratings or securities which are rated or evaluated by non-traditional parties such as financial advisors, rather than traditional CRAs, such as MIS. Companies are also increasingly accessing alternative sources of financing, such as loans and debt financing from non-bank lenders that do not involve a CRA-issued credit rating. A majority of Moody’s credit-rating-based revenue is transaction-based, and therefore it is especially dependent on the number and dollar volume of debt securities issued in the capital markets. Conditions that reduce issuers’ ability or willingness to issue debt securities, such as market volatility, declining growth, currency devaluations, changes in laws (including tax-related laws) or other adverse economic trends, reduce the number and dollar-equivalent volume of debt issuances for which MIS provides ratings services and thereby adversely affect the fees Moody’s earns in its ratings business. Current market, economic and government factors are negatively impacting the volume of debt securities issued in global capital markets and the demand for credit ratings, which is materially and adversely affecting the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. These factors include increases in or uncertainty around interest rates (as well as related monetary policy by governments in the response to factors such as inflation), the withdrawal of COVID-19 economic stimulus, inflationary pressures, increases or volatility in mortgage rates, widening credit spreads, regulatory and political developments (including uncertainty in various jurisdictions where Moody's operates), difficult economic conditions, growth in the use of alternative sources of credit, and defaults by significant issuers. Further declines or other changes in the markets for debt securities may materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows and prospects. Moody’s initiatives to reduce costs to counteract a decline in its business, including the 2022 - 2023 Geolocation Restructuring Program, may not be sufficient. Cost reductions, including those associated with this program, may be difficult or impossible to obtain in the short term, due in part to rent, technology, compliance, compensation and other fixed costs associated with some of the Company’s operations as well as the need to monitor outstanding ratings. Further, cost-reduction initiatives, including those under-taken to date, could make it difficult for the Company to rapidly expand operations in order to accommodate any unexpected increase in the demand for ratings. Further volatility in the financial markets, including continued decreases in the volumes of debt securities and increases in interest rates, may have a material adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial condition, which the Company may not be able to successfully offset with cost reductions. The Company Faces Increased Pricing Pressure from Competitors and/or Customers. There is price competition in the credit rating, research, and credit risk management markets, as well as in the market for research, business intelligence and analytical services offered by MA. Moody’s faces competition globally from other CRAs and from investment banks and brokerage firms that offer credit opinions in research, as well as from in-house research operations. Competition for customers and market share has spurred more aggressive tactics by some competitors in areas such as pricing and services, as well as increased competition from non-NRSROs that evaluate debt risk for issuers or investors, and the emergence of LLMs, Gen AI and other technologies may further intensify these pressures. At the same time, a challenging business environment and consolidation among both competitors and customers, particularly those involved in structured finance products and commercial real estate, and other factors affecting demand may enhance the market power of competitors and reduce the Company’s customer base. Recent weak economic growth has intensified competitive pricing pressures, which may result in customers’ use of free or lower-cost information that is increasingly becoming available from alternative sources or their development of alternative, proprietary systems for assessing credit risk that replace the products currently purchased from Moody’s. While Moody’s seeks to compete primarily on the basis of the quality of its products and services, it can lose market share when its pricing is not sufficiently competitive. In addition, the Reform Act was designed to encourage competition among rating agencies. The formation of additional NRSROs may increase pricing and competitive pressures. Furthermore, in some of the countries in which Moody’s operates, governments may provide financial or other support to local rating agencies. Any inability of Moody’s to compete successfully with respect to the pricing of its products and services will have a material adverse impact on its business, operating results and financial condition. MOODY'S 2023 10-K     31 The Company Is Exposed to Reputation and Credibility Concerns. Moody’s reputation and the strength of its brand are key competitive strengths. To the extent that the rating agency business as a whole or Moody's, relative to its competitors, suffers a loss in credibility, Moody’s business will be significantly impacted. Factors that may have already affected credibility and could potentially continue to have an impact in this regard include the appearance of a conflict of interest, the performance of securities relative to the rating assigned to such securities, the timing and nature of changes in ratings, a major compliance failure, negative perceptions or publicity and increased criticism by users of ratings, regulators and legislative bodies, including as to the ratings process, or the Company’s recent ESG initiatives and our incorporation of climate- and other ESG- related risks in the Company's rating process, and its implementation with respect to one or more securities and intentional, poor representation of our products and services by our partners or agents, manipulation of our products and services by third parties, or unintentional misrepresentations of Moody’s products and services in advertising materials, public relations information, social media or other external communications. Operational errors, or errors in software or data, whether by Moody’s or a Moody’s competitor, could also harm the reputation of the Company or the industries in which the Company operates. Additionally, as Moody's develops its Gen AI product offerings, the Company may incur risks or challenges in its adoption that could lead to reputational harm. Damage to reputation and credibility could have a material adverse impact on Moody’s business, operating results and financial condition, as well as on the Company’s ability to find suitable candidates for acquisition. Our reputation or business could be negatively impacted by ESG matters and our reporting of such matters Both in the United States and internationally, there is an increasing focus from regulators, certain investors and other stakeholders concerning ESG matters. We communicate certain ESG-related initiatives, goals and/or commitments (including with respect to environmental matters, diversity and other matters), in our various public disclosures, Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Report, on our website, in our filings with the SEC and elsewhere. These initiatives, goals or commitments could be challenging to achieve and costly to implement. In addition, MIS incorporates climate and other ESG related risks in its rating process, which also could cause reputational risk or could lead to litigation. The Company could fail to achieve, or be perceived to fail to achieve, our net zero 2040 commitment or other ESG-related initiatives, goals or commitments. Furthermore, we could be criticized for the timing, scope or nature of these initiatives, goals or commitments, or for any changes to them. To the extent that our required and voluntary disclosures about such ESG matters increase, we could be criticized for the accuracy, sufficiency or completeness of such disclosures. We could be subject to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions regarding the accuracy, sufficiency or completeness of our ESG-related disclosures. Our actual or perceived failure to achieve our ESG-related initiatives, goals or commitments could negatively impact our reputation or otherwise materially harm our business. The Introduction of Competing Products, Technologies or Services by Other Companies Can Negatively Impact the Nature and Economics of the Company’s Business. The markets for credit ratings, research, credit risk management services, business intelligence and analytical services are highly competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, including change based on our Gen AI offerings, changes in customer and investor demands, and evolving regulatory requirements, industry standards and market preferences. The ability to develop and successfully launch and maintain innovative products, technologies and services that anticipate customers’ and investors’ changing requirements and utilize emerging technological trends in a timely and cost-effective manner is a key factor in maintaining market share. Moody’s competitors include both established companies with significant financial resources, brand recognition, market experience and technological expertise, and smaller companies which may be better poised to quickly adopt new or emerging technologies or respond to customer requirements. Competitors may develop quantitative methodologies or related services, including services based on LLMs and Gen AI, for assessing credit risk that customers and market participants may deem preferable, more cost-effective or more valuable than the credit risk assessment methods currently employed by Moody’s, or may position, price or market their products in manners that differ from those utilized by Moody’s. Moody’s also competes indirectly against consulting firms and technology and information providers, some of whom are also suppliers to Moody’s; these indirect competitors could in the future choose to compete directly with Moody’s, cease doing business with Moody’s or change the terms under which they do business with Moody’s in a way that could negatively impact our business. In addition, customers or others may develop alternative, proprietary systems for assessing risk, including credit and climate risk. Such developments could affect demand for Moody’s products and services and its growth prospects. Further, the increased availability in recent years of free or relatively inexpensive internet information may reduce the demand for Moody’s products and services. Moody’s growth prospects and operating margins also could be adversely affected by Moody’s failure to make necessary or optimal capital infrastructure expenditures and improvements and the inability of its information technologies to provide adequate capacity and capabilities to meet increased demands of producing quality ratings and research products at levels achieved by competitors. Any inability of Moody’s to compete successfully may have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. Moody’s Is Exposed to Risks Related to Loss of Skilled Employees and Related Compensation Cost Pressures. Moody’s success depends upon its ability to recruit, retain and motivate highly skilled, experienced professionals, including financial analysts, data scientists and software engineers. Competition for skilled individuals in the financial services and technology industries is intense, and Moody’s ability to attract high quality employees could be impaired if it is unable to offer competitive compensation and other incentives or if the regulatory environment mandates restrictions on or disclosures about individual employees that would not be necessary in competing industries. Rising expenses including wage inflation, and global labor shortages could adversely affect Moody’s ability to attract and retain high-quality employees. As greater focus has been placed on executive compensation at public companies, in the future, Moody’s may be required to alter its compensation practices in ways that adversely affect its ability to attract and retain talented employees. Investment banks, investors and competitors may 32 MOODY'S 2023 10-K seek to attract analyst talent by providing more favorable working conditions or offering significantly more attractive compensation packages than Moody’s. Moody’s also may not be able to identify and hire the appropriate qualified employees in some markets outside the U.S. with the required experience or skills to perform sophisticated credit analysis. We could also fail to effectively respond to evolving perceptions and goals of those in our workforce or whom we might seek to hire, including with respect to flexible working or other matters. Also, the emergence and adoption of LLM and Gen AI technologies will require upskilling and additional training of Moody's employees, making retention and training increasingly important. There is a risk that even when the Company invests significant resources in attempting to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, it will not succeed in its efforts, and its business could be harmed. Further, employee expectations in areas such as ESG have been rapidly evolving and increasing. A failure to adequately meet employee expectations may result in an inability to attract and retain talented employees. Moody’s is highly dependent on the continued services of Robert Fauber, the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer, and other senior officers and key employees. The loss of the services of skilled personnel for any reason and Moody’s inability to replace them with suitable candidates quickly or at all, as well as any negative market perception resulting from such loss, could have a material adverse effect on Moody’s business, operating results and financial condition. Moody’s Acquisitions, Dispositions and Other Strategic Transactions or Investments May Not Produce Anticipated Results Exposing the Company to Future Significant Impairment Charges Relating to Its Goodwill, Intangible Assets or Property and Equipment. Moody’s regularly evaluates and enters into acquisitions, dispositions or other strategic transactions and investments to strengthen its business and grow the Company. Such transactions and investments present significant challenges and risks. The Company faces intense competition for acquisition targets, especially in light of industry consolidation, which may affect Moody’s ability to complete such transactions on favorable terms or at all. Additionally, the Company makes significant investments in technology, including software for internal use, which can be expensive, time-intensive and complex to develop and implement. The anticipated growth, synergies and other strategic objectives of completed transactions may not be fully realized, and a variety of factors may adversely affect any anticipated benefits from such transactions. Any strategic transaction involves a number of risks, including unanticipated challenges regarding integration of operations, technologies and new employees; the existence of liabilities or contingencies not disclosed to or otherwise known by the Company prior to closing a transaction; unexpected regulatory and operating difficulties and expenditures; scrutiny from competition and antitrust authorities; failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business; future developments that impair the value of purchased goodwill or intangible assets; diversion of management’s focus from other business operations; failure to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at acquired companies that prior to the acquisition lacked such controls, procedures and policies; disputes or litigation arising out of acquisitions or dispositions; challenges retaining the customers of the acquired business; coordination of product, sales, marketing and program and systems management functions; integration of employees from the acquired business into Moody’s organization; integration of the acquired business’s accounting, information technology, human resources, legal and other administrative systems with Moody’s; risks that acquired systems expose us to cybersecurity risks; and for foreign transactions, additional risks related to the integration of operations across different cultures and languages, and the economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. The anticipated benefits from an acquisition or other strategic transaction or investment may not be realized fully, or may take longer to realize than expected. As a result, the failure of acquisitions, dispositions and other strategic transactions and investments to perform as expected may have a material adverse effect on Moody’s business, operating results and financial condition. At December 31, 2023, Moody’s had $5,956 million of goodwill and $2,049 million of intangible assets on its balance sheet. Approximately 95% of the goodwill and intangible assets reside in the MA business and are allocated to the two reporting units within MA. The remaining 5% of goodwill and intangible assets reside in MIS and primarily relate to ICRA. Failure to achieve business objectives and financial projections in any of these reporting units could result in a significant asset impairment charge, which would result in a non-cash charge to operating expenses. Goodwill and intangible assets are tested for impairment on an annual basis and also when events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. Determining whether an impairment of goodwill exists can be especially difficult in periods of market or economic uncertainty and turmoil, and requires significant management estimates and judgment. In addition, the potential for goodwill impairment is increased during periods of economic uncertainty. An asset impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on Moody’s business, operating results and financial condition. Our business could be negatively impacted by climate change . As a global company, our employees and offices, as well as those of our vendors, are subject to risks related to the impact of climate change. We have offices in locations that are vulnerable to the effects of climate change and extreme weather. In addition, continued reliable energy sources are critical for business continuity globally and those sources too can be impacted by extreme weather. The frequency and impact of extreme weather events on critical infrastructure has the potential to disrupt the Company’s ongoing operations, as well as the operations of our third-party vendors and customers, and may result in losses and additional costs to maintain or resume operations. C. Technology Risks The Company Is Exposed to Risks Related to Cybersecurity and Protection of Confidential Information. The Company’s operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential, sensitive, proprietary and other types of information. Such information relates to its business operations and confidential and sensitive information about its MOODY'S 2023 10-K     33 customers and employees in the Company’s computer systems and networks, and in those of its third-party vendors. The Company also often has access to MNPI and other confidential information concerning its customers, including public and private companies, sovereigns, and other third parties, and their customers, suppliers or transaction counterparties. Unauthorized disclosure of the foregoing information could cause our customers to lose faith in our ability to protect their confidential information, affecting the trading of their securities, damage their reputations or competitive positions and therefore cause customers to cease doing business with us, and potentially expose us to risk of litigation. The risks the Company faces range from cyber-attacks common to most industries, to more advanced threats that target the Company because of its prominence in the global marketplace, or due to its ratings of sovereign debt and corporate issuers. The Company and its third-party service providers, including our vendors, regularly experience cyber-attacks and data breaches of varying degrees. Cyber-attacks targeting Moody’s or Moody’s vendors’ technology and systems, whether from circumvention of security systems, denial-of-service attacks, ransomware, malware, hacking, social engineering or "phishing" attacks, computer viruses, employee or insider threats, malfeasance, supply chain attacks, physical breaches, payment fraud or other cyber-attacks some of which may be carried out by state-sponsored actors, may result in unauthorized access, exfiltration, manipulation or corruption of sensitive data, material interruptions or malfunctions in the Company’s or such vendors’ web sites or systems, applications, data processing, or disruption of other business operations.  Such events may compromise the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of material information held by the Company (including information about Moody’s business, employees or customers), as well as other sensitive data, including personally identifiable information, the disclosure of which could lead to identity theft. The Company's MNPI concerning customers and clients could be improperly used by authorized or unauthorized parties, including for insider trading. The Company has implemented administrative, technical, and physical measures to detect and prevent unauthorized activity, but such precautions may not be successful. As the Company has grown and acquired businesses, IT guidelines have been developed and applied within business units or inherited from legacy organizations, which can result in internal differences in the Company's approach to IT standards until acquired entities are integrated. This creates a risk of developing unintended vulnerabilities and could result in additional costs, difficulty meeting new regulatory standards, or failing to meet customer expectations. The Company may be exposed to additional threats as it migrates its data from legacy systems to cloud-based solutions, and increased dependence on third-parties to store cloud-based data subjects the Company to further cyber risks. Further, many of our employees work remotely, which magnifies the importance of the integrity of our remote access security measures and may expose the Company to additional cyber risks. The Company has invested and continues to invest in risk management and information security measures in order to protect its systems and data, including employee training, disaster plans, and technical defenses. Although Moody’s devotes significant resources to maintain and regularly update such systems and processes, measures that Moody’s takes to avoid, detect, mitigate or recover from material incidents can be expensive, and may be insufficient, circumvented, or may become ineffective. Further, Moody’s relies on third-party technical subject matter experts to assist in managing its cyber security risk management processes. While Moody’s employs such third parties to assist in strengthening its cybersecurity defenses, there can be no guarantee that any action taken as advised by such third party will be adequate or sufficient to address the evolving threat landscape. Additionally, any measures that Moody’s takes in connection with such third parties to avoid, detect, mitigate or recover from material cyber security threats or incidents can be expensive, and may be insufficient, circumvented, or may become ineffective. Additionally, the cost and operational consequences of implementing, maintaining and enhancing further data or system protection measures could increase significantly to overcome increasingly intense, complex and sophisticated global cyber threats. Despite the Company’s best efforts, it is not fully insulated from, and has in the past experienced, security threats and system disruptions. Although past incidents have not had a material adverse effect on the Company's operating results, there can be no assurance of a similar result in the future. Because the methods used for these systems cyberattacks are rapidly changing, the Company or its third-party vendors, despite significant focus and investment, may be unable to anticipate and/or deploy sufficient protections against such incidents. Further, the extent of a particular security incident and the steps needed to investigate may not be immediately clear, and it may take a significant amount of time before such an investigation can be completed and full and reliable information about the incident, including the extent of the harm and how best to remediate it, is known. Recent well-publicized security breaches at other companies have led to enhanced government and regulatory scrutiny of the measures taken by companies to protect against cyber-attacks, and may in the future result in heightened cybersecurity compliance requirements, including additional regulatory expectations for oversight of third-party vendors and service providers. Cybersecurity incidents, including the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data, could cause reputational harm, loss of customers and revenue, fines, regulatory actions and scrutiny, sanctions or other statutory penalties, litigation, liability for failure to safeguard the Company’s customers’ information, or financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by the Company. In addition, disclosure or media reports of actual or perceived security vulnerabilities to the Company’s systems or those of the Company’s third parties, even if no breach has been attempted or occurred, could lead to reputational harm, loss of customers and revenue, or increased regulatory actions oversight and scrutiny. Any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on Moody’s business, operating results and financial condition. The Company Is Exposed to Risks Related to Protection of Confidential and Personal Information To conduct its operations, the Company regularly moves data across national borders, and consequently is subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad regarding privacy, data protection and data security, such as the Federal Trade Commission Act in the U.S., the GDPR in the EU, the GDPR in the U.K., the Cyber Security Law, the Data Security Law, and the Personal Information Protection Law in China and various other international, federal, state 34 MOODY'S 2023 10-K and local laws and regulations. The scope of the laws that may be applicable to Moody’s is often uncertain and may be conflicting, particularly with respect to foreign laws. For example, GDPR, which became effective in May 2018, greatly increased the jurisdictional reach of European Union privacy law and added a broad array of requirements for processing personal data, including the public disclosure of significant data breaches. Failure to comply with GDPR requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of annual worldwide revenue. Additionally, other countries have enacted or are enacting data localization laws that require data to stay within their borders. Further, laws such as the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 ("CCPA"), require among other things, covered companies to provide disclosures to consumers, and affords consumers the ability to opt-out of certain sales of personal information. A number of U.S. states have enacted data privacy laws, including the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020 (“CPRA”), and laws in Virginia, Colorado, Connecticut and Utah which became effective in 2023. Data privacy laws have also been passed in numerous U.S. states, including Iowa, Indiana, Tennessee, Montana, Texas, Delaware, New Jersey and Oregon that will go into effect over the course of 2024, 2025 and 2026. The effects of non-compliance with the CCPA, CPRA and other similar data privacy laws are significant, and may require the Company to modify its data processing practices and policies and to incur additional costs and expenses. All of these evolving compliance and operational requirements have required or could require in the future, changes to certain business practices, thereby increasing costs, requiring significant management time and attention, and subjecting the Company to negative publicity, as well as remedies that may harm its business, including fines, modified demands or orders, the cessation of existing business practices and exposure to litigation, regulatory actions, sanctions or other statutory penalties. The Company Is Dependent on the Use of Third-Party Software, Data, Hosted Solutions, Data Centers, Cloud and Network Infrastructure (Together, the “Third-Party Technology”), and Any Reduction in Third-Party Product Quality or Service Offerings, Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company’s Business, Financial Condition or Results of Operations. Moody’s relies on Third-Party Technology in connection with its product development and offerings and operations. The Company depends on the ability of Third-Party Technology providers to deliver and support reliable products, enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, provide data necessary to develop and maintain its products and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. The Third-Party Technology Moody’s uses can become obsolete or restrictive, incompatible with future versions of the Company’s products, fail to be comprehensive or accurate, unavailable or fail to operate effectively, and Moody’s business could be adversely affected when the Company is unable to timely or effectively replace such Third-Party Technology. In addition, certain aspects of the Company’s business rely on a concentrated group of vendors, and a cybersecurity breach or event at one or more of such vendors could have a significant impact on the Company’s operations. The Company also monitors its use of Third-Party Technology to comply with applicable license and other contractual requirements. Despite the Company’s efforts, the Company cannot ensure that such third parties will permit Moody’s use in the future, resulting in increased Third-Party Technology acquisition costs and loss of rights. In addition, the Company’s operating costs could increase if license or other usage fees for Third-Party Technology increase or the efforts to incorporate enhancements to Third-Party Technology are substantial. Some of these third-party suppliers are also Moody’s competitors, increasing the risks noted above. In the ordinary course, third-parties, including the Company’s vendors, are subject to various forms of cyber-attacks. Additionally, the Company may be exposed to additional threats as the Company migrates its data from legacy systems to cloud-based solutions, and becomes increasingly dependent on third parties to store cloud-based data subjects. To date, such attacks have not resulted in a material adverse impact to Moody’s business operations, but there can be no guarantee the Company will not experience such an impact in the future. If any of these risks materialize, they could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

This discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Moody’s Corporation consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains Forward-Looking Statements. See “Forward-Looking Statements” commencing on page and Item 1A. “Risk Factors” commencing on page for a discussion of uncertainties, risks and other factors associated with these statements. The Company Moody’s is a global integrated risk assessment firm that empowers organizations to anticipate, adapt and thrive in a new era of exponential risk. Moody’s reports in two segments: MA and MIS. MA is a global provider of: i) research and insights; ii) data and information; and iii) decision solutions, which help companies make better and faster decisions. MA leverages its industry expertise across multiple risks such as credit, market, financial crime, supply chain, catastrophe and climate to deliver integrated risk assessment solutions that enable business leaders to identify, measure and manage the implications of interrelated risks and opportunities. MIS publishes credit ratings and provides assessment services on a wide range of debt obligations, programs and facilities, and the entities that issue such obligations in markets worldwide, including various corporate, financial institution and governmental obligations, and structured finance securities. Current Matters Impacting Moody's Business Current Macroeconomic Uncertainties/Market Volatility The Company continues to monitor current macroeconomic and geopolitical uncertainties that have contributed to volatility in rated issuance volumes, which began in 2022 and have continued into 2023. These uncertainties include, but are not limited to: i) inflation levels; ii) higher interest rates; and iii) volatility in the global capital markets partly resulting from the ongoing military conflicts further discussed below and the failures of certain banking institutions in the first half of 2023. A substantial portion of MIS’s revenue is impacted by the level of issuance activity in the fixed income capital markets, both in the U.S. and internationally. While market volatility has resulted in suppressed rated issuance volumes in certain sectors, the Company believes that these suppressed volumes are predominantly transitory in nature. However, due to various uncertainties, Moody's is unable to predict the severity and duration of current macroeconomic and geopolitical uncertainties and their potential impact on future rated issuance volumes. Refer to Item 1A. “Risk Factors” for further disclosure relating to these risks. Military Conflicts The Company continues to closely monitor the impact of the ongoing Russia-Ukraine military conflict and the military conflict in Israel and surrounding areas on all aspects of its business. In response to the Russia-Ukraine military conflict, the Company is no longer conducting commercial operations in Russia for both MA and MIS and is complying with all applicable regulatory restrictions set forth by authorities in the jurisdictions in which Moody's operates. Furthermore, the Company also has withdrawn MIS credit ratings on Russian entities. While Moody's operations and net assets in Russia and Israel and surrounding areas are not material, broader global market volatility, which partially relates to uncertainties surrounding these military conflicts, has contributed and may continue to contribute to volatility in rated issuance volumes. This impact on rated issuance volumes is more fully discussed in the "Results of Operations" section of this MD&A. The Company is unable to predict either the near-term or longer-term impact that the conflicts may have on its financial position and operating results due to numerous uncertainties regarding the severity and duration of the conflicts and their broader potential macroeconomic impact. Critical Accounting Estimates Moody’s discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based on the Company’s consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires Moody’s to make estimates and judgments that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. These estimates are based on historical experience and on other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. On an ongoing basis, Moody’s evaluates its critical accounting estimates. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The following accounting estimates are considered critical because they are particularly dependent on management’s judgment about matters that are uncertain at the time the accounting estimates are made and changes to those estimates could have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated results of operations or financial condition. Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets At July 31st of each year, Moody’s evaluates its goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level, defined as an operating segment (i.e., MA and MIS), or one level below an operating segment (i.e., a component of an operating segment). 40 MOODY'S 2023 10-K The Company has four reporting units: two reporting units within MA consisting of businesses that offer: i) data and data-driven analytical solutions; and ii) risk-management software, workflow and CRE solutions, and two within the Company’s ratings business (one for the ICRA business and one that encompasses all of Moody’s other ratings operations). The Company evaluates the recoverability of goodwill using a two-step impairment test approach at the reporting unit level. In the first step, the Company assesses various qualitative factors to determine whether the fair value of a reporting unit may be less than its carrying amount. If a determination is made based on the qualitative factors that an impairment does not exist, the Company is not required to perform further testing. If the aforementioned qualitative assessment results in the Company concluding that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit may be less than its carrying amount, the fair value of the reporting unit will be quantitatively determined and compared to its carrying value including goodwill. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets assigned to that unit, goodwill is not impaired, and the Company is not required to perform further testing. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying value, the Company will record a goodwill impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value. The Company evaluates its reporting units on an annual basis, or more frequently if there are changes in the reporting structure of the Company due to acquisitions, realignments or if there are indicators of potential impairment. For the reporting units where the Company is consistently able to conclude that no impairment exists using only a qualitative approach, the Company’s accounting policy is to perform the second step of the aforementioned goodwill impairment assessment at least once every three years. The Company last performed quantitative assessments on all reporting units at July 31, 2021, pursuant to a change in reporting unit structure in the MA reportable segment. The quantitative assessments performed at July 31, 2021 resulted in fair values that significantly exceeded carrying values for all reporting units. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, which are more fully described below. In addition, the Company also makes certain judgments and assumptions in allocating shared assets and liabilities to determine the carrying values for each of its reporting units. Other assets and liabilities, including applicable corporate assets, are allocated to the extent they are related to the operation of respective reporting units. Annual goodwill impairment assessment performed at July 31, 2023 At July 31, 2023, the Company performed qualitative assessments for each of the four reporting units. These qualitative assessments resulted in the Company determining that it was not more likely than not that the fair value of any reporting unit was less than its carrying amount. Methodologies and significant estimates utilized in determining the fair value of reporting units: The following is a discussion regarding the Company’s methodology for determining the fair value of its reporting units, excluding ICRA, at July 31, 2021 (the date of the last quantitative assessment). As ICRA is a publicly traded company in India, the Company was able to observe its fair value based on its market capitalization. The fair value of each reporting unit, excluding ICRA, was estimated using a discounted cash flow methodology and comparable public company and precedent transaction multiples. The discounted cash flow analysis requires significant estimates, including projections of future operating results and cash flows of each reporting unit that are based on internal budgets and strategic plans, expected long-term growth rates, terminal values, weighted average cost of capital and the effects of external factors and market conditions. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the estimated fair value of each reporting unit that could result in an impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of goodwill, which could be material to the Company’s financial position and results of operations. Moody’s allocates newly acquired goodwill to reporting units based on the reporting unit expected to benefit from the acquisition. The sensitivity analyses on the future cash flows and WACC assumptions are described below. These key assumptions utilized in the discounted cash flow valuation methodology require significant management judgment: – Future cash flow assumptions - The projections for future cash flows utilized in the models are derived from historical experience and assumptions regarding future growth and profitability of each reporting unit. These projections are consistent with the Company’s operating budget and strategic plan. Cash flows for the five years subsequent to the date of the quantitative goodwill impairment test were utilized in the determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. The growth rates assumed a gradual increase in revenue based on new customer acquisition and new products. Beyond five years, a terminal value was determined using a perpetuity growth rate based on inflation and real GDP growth rates. A sensitivity analysis of the revenue growth rates was performed on all reporting units. For each reporting unit analyzed, a 10% reduction in the revenue growth rates used would still result in fair values that significantly exceeded carrying values. – WACC - The WACC is the rate used to discount each reporting unit’s estimated future cash flows. The WACC is calculated based on the proportionate weighting of the cost of debt and equity. The cost of equity is based on a risk-free interest rate and an equity risk factor, which is derived from public companies similar to the reporting unit and which captures the perceived risks and uncertainties associated with the reporting unit’s cash flows. The cost of debt component is calculated as the weighted average cost associated with all of the Company’s outstanding borrowings as of the date of the impairment test and was immaterial to the computation of the WACC. The cost of debt and equity is weighted based on the debt to market capitalization ratio of publicly traded companies with similarities to the reporting unit being tested. The WACC for all reporting units ranged from 8.0% to 8.5% as of July 31, 2021. Differences in the WACC used between reporting units is primarily due to MOODY'S 2023 10-K     41 distinct risks and uncertainties regarding the cash flows of the different reporting units. A sensitivity analysis of the WACC was performed on all reporting units as of July 31, 2021 for each reporting unit. For all reporting units, an increase in the WACC of one percentage point would still result in fair values that significantly exceeded carrying values. Long-lived assets Long-lived assets, which consist primarily of amortizable intangible assets, operating lease ROU Assets and property and equipment, are reviewed for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Under the first step of the recoverability assessment, Moody's compares the estimated undiscounted future cash flows attributable to the asset or asset group to its carrying value. If the undiscounted future cash flows are greater than the carrying value, no further assessment is required. If the undiscounted future cash flows are less than the carrying value, Moody's proceeds with step two of the assessment. Under step two of this assessment, Moody's is required to determine the fair value of the asset or asset group and recognize an impairment loss if the carrying amount exceeds its fair value. In performing this assessment, Moody's must include assumptions that market participants would use in their estimates of fair value, including the estimated future cash flows and discount rate. Moody's must apply judgment in developing estimated future cash flows and in the determination of market participant assumptions. Income Taxes The Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. The Company’s tax assets and liabilities are affected by the amounts charged for services provided and expenses incurred as well as other tax matters such as intercompany transactions. The Company accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method in accordance with ASC Topic 740. Therefore, income tax expense is based on reported income before income taxes, and deferred income taxes reflect the effect of temporary differences between the amounts of assets and liabilities that are recognized for financial reporting purposes and the amounts that are recognized for income tax purposes. The Company is subject to tax audits in the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. The Company regularly assesses the likely outcomes of such audits in order to determine the appropriateness of liabilities for UTPs. The Company classifies interest related to income taxes as a component of interest expense in the Company’s consolidated financial statements and associated penalties, if any, as part of other non-operating expenses. For UTPs, ASC Topic 740 requires a company to first determine whether it is more-likely-than-not (defined as a likelihood of more than fifty percent) that a tax position will be sustained based on its technical merits as of the reporting date, assuming that taxing authorities will examine the position and have full knowledge of all relevant information. A tax position that meets this more-likely-than-not threshold is then measured and recognized at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely to be realized upon effective settlement with a taxing authority. As the determination of liabilities related to UTPs and associated interest and penalties requires significant estimates to be made by the Company, there can be no assurance that the Company will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and thus the eventual outcomes could have a material impact on the Company’s operating results or financial condition. Revenue Recognition and Costs to Obtain a Contract with a Customer Revenue is recognized when control of promised goods or services is transferred to the customer, in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. The discussion below outlines areas of the Company’s revenue recognition process that require significant management judgment and estimates. Refer to Note 2 of the consolidated financial statements for a comprehensive discussion regarding the Company’s accounting policies relating to the recognition of revenue and costs to obtain a contract with a customer. Allocating consideration to performance obligations: Management judgment is required in the determination of the SSP, which is utilized to allocate the transaction price to each distinct performance obligation at contract inception when the contract includes multiple distinct performance obligations. In the MA segment, for performance obligations where an observable price exists, such as PCS, the observable price is utilized. If an observable price does not currently exist, the Company will utilize management’s best estimate of SSP for that good or service using estimation methods that maximize the use of observable data points. In the MIS segment, the SSP for both ratings and monitoring services is generally based upon directly observable selling prices where the rating or monitoring service is sold separately. The SSP in both segments is usually apportioned along the lines of class of customer, nature of product/services, and other attributes related to those products and services. Once SSP is determined for each performance obligation, the transaction price, including any discount, is allocated based on the relative SSP of the separate performance obligations. Costs to Obtain a Contract with a Customer: Costs incurred to obtain customer contracts, such as sales commissions, are deferred and recorded within other current assets and other assets when such costs are determined to be incremental to obtaining a contract, would not have been incurred otherwise and the Company expects to recover those costs. These costs are amortized to expense on a systematic basis consistent with the 42 MOODY'S 2023 10-K transfer of products or services to the customer for which the asset relates. Depending on the line of business to which the contract relates, this amortization period may be based upon the average economic life of the products sold or average period for which services are provided, inclusive of anticipated contract renewals. Contingencies Accounting for contingencies, including those matters described in Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements, is highly subjective and requires the use of judgments and estimates in assessing their magnitude and likely outcome. In many cases, the outcomes of such matters will be determined by third parties, including governmental or judicial bodies. The provisions made in the consolidated financial statements, as well as the related disclosures, represent management’s best estimates of the current status of such matters and their potential outcome based on a review of the facts and in consultation with outside legal counsel where deemed appropriate. The Company regularly reviews contingencies and as new information becomes available may, in the future, adjust its associated liabilities. For claims, litigation and proceedings and governmental investigations and inquiries not related to income taxes, the Company records liabilities in the consolidated financial statements when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated and periodically adjusts these as appropriate. When the reasonable estimate of the loss is within a range of amounts, the minimum amount of the range is accrued unless some higher amount within the range is a better estimate than another amount within the range. In instances when a loss is reasonably possible but uncertainties exist related to the probable outcome and/or the amount or range of loss, management does not record a liability but discloses the contingency if material. As additional information becomes available, the Company adjusts its assessments and estimates of such matters accordingly. Moody’s also discloses material pending legal proceedings pursuant to SEC rules and other pending matters as it may determine to be appropriate. In view of the inherent difficulty of assessing the potential outcome of legal proceedings, governmental, regulatory and legislative investigations and inquiries, claims and litigation and similar matters and contingencies, particularly when the claimants seek large or indeterminate damages or assert novel legal theories or the matters involve a large number of parties, the Company often cannot predict what the eventual outcome of the pending matters will be or the timing of any resolution of such matters. The Company also may be unable to predict the impact (if any) that any such matters may have on how its business is conducted, on its competitive position or on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. As the process to resolve any pending matters progresses, management will continue to review the latest information available and assess its ability to predict the outcome of such matters and the effects, if any, on its operations and financial condition and to accrue for and disclose such matters as and when required. However, because such matters are inherently unpredictable and unfavorable developments or resolutions can occur, the ultimate outcome of such matters, including the amount of any loss, may differ from those estimates. Pension and Other Retirement Benefits The expenses, assets and liabilities that Moody’s reports for its Retirement Plans are dependent on many assumptions concerning the outcome of future events and circumstances. These significant assumptions include the following: – future compensation increases based on the Company’s long-term actual experience and future outlook; – long-term expected return on pension plan assets based on historical portfolio results and the expected future average annual return for each major asset class within the plan’s portfolio (which is principally comprised of equity and fixed-income investments); and – discount rates based on current yields on high-grade corporate long-term bonds. The discount rates used to measure the present value of the Company’s benefit obligation for its Retirement Plans as of December 31, 2023 were derived using a cash flow matching method whereby the Company compares each plan’s projected payment obligations by year with the corresponding yield on the FTSE pension discount curve. The cash flows by plan are then discounted back to present value to determine the discount rate applicable to each plan. Moody’s major assumptions vary by plan and assumptions used are set forth in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. In determining these assumptions, the Company consults with third-party actuaries and other advisors as deemed appropriate. While the Company believes that the assumptions used in its calculations are reasonable, differences in actual experience or changes in assumptions could have a significant effect on the expenses, assets and liabilities related to the Company’s Retirement Plans. When actual plan experience differs from the assumptions used, actuarial gains or losses arise. Excluding differences between the expected long-term rate of return assumption and actual returns on plan assets, the Company amortizes, as a component of annual pension expense, total outstanding actuarial gains or losses over the estimated average future working lifetime of active plan participants to the extent that the gain/loss exceeds 10% of the greater of the beginning-of-year projected benefit obligation or the market-related value of plan assets. For Moody’s Retirement Plans, the total actuarial losses as of December 31, 2023 that have not been recognized in annual expense are $72 million, and Moody’s expects the net periodic expense related to the amortization of net actuarial (losses)/gains will be immaterial in 2024. For Moody’s funded U.S. pension plan, the differences between the expected long-term rate of return assumption and actual returns could also affect the net periodic pension expense. As permitted under ASC Topic 715, the Company amortizes the impact of asset returns over a five-year period for purposes of calculating the market-related value of assets that is used in determining the expected return on assets’ component of annual expense and in calculating the total unrecognized gain or loss subject to MOODY'S 2023 10-K     43 amortization. As of December 31, 2023, the Company has an unrecognized loss of $71 million, of which $10 million will be recognized in the market-related value of assets that is used to calculate the expected return on assets component of 2024 expense. The table below shows the estimated effect that a one percentage-point decrease in each of these assumptions will have on Moody’s 2024 income before provision for income taxes. These effects have been calculated using the Company’s current projections of 2024 expenses, assets and liabilities related to Moody’s Retirement Plans, which could change as updated data becomes available. (1) Weighted average discount rates of 4.73% and 4.75% for pension plans and Other Retirement Plans, respectively. Based on current projections, the Company estimates that expenses related to Retirement Plans will be immaterial in 2024. Investments in Non-consolidated Affiliates Equity method investments are reviewed for indicators of other-than-temporary impairment on a quarterly basis. These investments are written down to fair value if there is evidence of a loss in value that is other-than-temporary. For equity investments without a readily determinable fair value for which the Company does not have significant influence, Moody's generally elects to measure these investments at cost, less impairment, adjusted for subsequent observable price changes as of the date that an observable transaction takes place. The Company performs an assessment on a quarterly basis to determine if there are indicators of impairment for its investments in non-consolidated affiliates. If there are indicators of impairment, the Company estimates the investment’s fair value and records an impairment if the carrying value of the investment exceeds its fair value. In situations where estimation of fair value is required for investments in non-consolidated affiliates, the Company considers various factors, including: recent observable investee equity transactions, comparable public company/precedent transaction multiples and discounted cash flow models. The estimation of fair value for these investments may involve significant judgment. Other Estimates In addition to the critical accounting estimates described above, there are other accounting estimates within Moody’s consolidated financial statements. Management believes the current assumptions and other considerations used to estimate amounts reflected in Moody’s consolidated financial statements are appropriate. However, if actual experience differs from the assumptions and other considerations used in estimating amounts reflected in Moody’s consolidated financial statements, the resulting changes could have a material adverse effect on Moody’s consolidated results of operations or financial condition. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on significant accounting policies that impact Moody’s. Reportable Segments The Company is organized into two reportable segments at December 31, 2023: MA and MIS, which are more fully described in the section entitled “The Company” above and in Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements. 44 MOODY'S 2023 10-K Results of Operations This section of this Form 10-K generally discusses the year ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 financial results and year-to-year comparisons between these years. Discussions related to the year ended December 31, 2021 financial results and year-to-year comparisons between the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022 . The following footnotes are applicable throughout the discussion of the Company's results of operations: (1) Refer to the section entitled "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" of this MD&A for the definition and methodology that the Company utilizes to calculate this metric. (2) Refer to the section entitled "Key Performance Metrics" of this MD&A for the definition and methodology that the Company utilizes to calculate this metric. MOODY'S 2023 10-K     45 Year ended December 31, 2023 compared with year ended December 31, 2022 Executive Summary The following table provides an executive summary of key operating results for the year ended December 31, 2023. Following this executive summary is a more detailed discussion of the Company’s operating results as well as a discussion of the operating results of the Company’s reportable segments. 46 MOODY'S 2023 10-K Moody’s Corporation GLOBAL REVENUE 2023 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 2022 _________________________________________________ _________ ______________________________________________ Growth in global revenue reflected increases in both MA and MIS, both in the U.S. and internationally. Refer to the section entitled “Segment Results” of this MD&A for a more fulsome discussion of the Company’s segment revenue. MOODY'S 2023 10-K     47 48 MOODY'S 2023 10-K The increase in depreciation and amortization expense is driven by amortization of internally developed software, which is primarily related to the development of MA SaaS solutions. The restructuring charge in both periods relates to the Company's 2022 - 2023 Geolocation Restructuring Program as more fully discussed in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. Operating Margin and Adjusted Operating Margin (1) expansion primarily reflects revenue growth offset by an increase in operating and SG&A expenses. The gain in the prior year relates to the early redemption of a portion of the 2.55% 2020 Senior Notes, Due 2060. The decrease in the ETR primarily reflects the resolutions of UTPs in various U.S. and non-U.S. tax jurisdictions in the first quarter of 2023, which resulted in a decrease to the provision for income taxes of $113 million. Both diluted EPS and Adjusted Diluted EPS (1) growth is mostly attributable to higher operating income and Adjusted Operating Income (1) , the components of which are more fully described above. This is coupled with a $0.76/share benefit related to the resolutions of tax matters in the first quarter of 2023, compared to $0.12/share for similar matters in the first quarter of 2022. MOODY'S 2023 10-K     49 Segment Results Moody’s Analytics The table below provides a summary of revenue and operating results, followed by further insight and commentary: MOODY'S ANALYTICS REVENUE 2023 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 2022 _________________________________________________ _________ ______________________________________________ The 10% increase in global MA revenue reflects growth both in the U.S. (9%) and internationally (12%) across all LOBs. – ARR (2) increased 10% reflecting strong growth across all LOBs. 50 MOODY'S 2023 10-K DECISION SOLUTIONS REVENUE 2023 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 2022 _________________________________________________ _________ ______________________________________________ Global DS revenue for the for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 was comprised as follows : Global DS revenue grew 11% and reflects increases in both the U.S. (11%) and internationally (11%). The most notable drivers of the growth reflect: – continued demand for KYC solutions reflecting increased counterparty risk data usage, including new sales growth from corporates, governments, and insurers, which also drove ARR (2) growth of 17%; – growth in subscription-based revenue for actuarial modeling and regulatory reporting tools that support customers' compliance with certain international accounting standards relating to insurance contracts, which resulted in ARR (2) growth of 11%; and – growth across banking offerings following Moody's investments in SaaS-based solutions, which also resulted in ARR (2) growth of 9%. The aforementioned factors contributed to overall ARR (2) growth for DS of 11%. MOODY'S 2023 10-K     51 RESEARCH AND INSIGHTS REVENUE 2023 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 2022 _________________________________________________ _________ ______________________________________________ Global R&I revenue increased 9% compared to 2022 and reflects growth in both the U.S. (4%) and internationally (15%). The most notable drivers of growth reflect: – increased demand for credit default models and economic analytics, partially due to banking stress events in the first quarter; and – steady sales growth and strong retention from the CreditView product offering. The aforementioned factors contributed to overall ARR (2) growth for R&I of 7%. DATA AND INFORMATION REVENUE 2023 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 2022 _________________________________________________ _________ ______________________________________________ Global D&I revenue increased 11% compared to 2022 and reflects growth in both the U.S. (12%) and internationally (10%), mainly driven by: – continued strong retention and new sales for ratings feeds coupled with higher price realization; and – increased demand for company data. The aforementioned factors also contributed to ARR (2) growth of 10% for D&I. 52 MOODY'S 2023 10-K The modest Adjusted Operating Margin expansion for MA is primarily due to the 10% increase in global MA revenue, offset by a 10% increase in operating and SG&A expenses. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense primarily reflects higher amortization of internally developed software relating to the development of SaaS-based solutions. The restructuring charges in both periods relate to the Company's 2022 - 2023 Geolocation Restructuring Program as more fully discussed in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. MOODY'S 2023 10-K     53 Moody’s Investors Service The table below provides a summary of revenue and operating results, followed by further insight and commentary: The following chart presents changes in rated issuance volumes compared to 2022. To the extent that changes in rated issuance volumes had a material impact to MIS's revenue compared to the prior year, those impacts are discussed below. 54 MOODY'S 2023 10-K MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE REVENUE 2023 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 2022 _________________________________________________ _________ ______________________________________________ The increase in global MIS revenue reflects growth in CFG, FIG and PPIF revenue being partly offset by declines in SFG activity across most asset classes. CFG REVENUE 2023 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 2022 _________________________________________________ _________ ______________________________________________ Global CFG revenue for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 was comprised as follows : * Other includes: recurring monitoring fees of a rated debt obligation and/or entities that issue such obligations as well as fees from programs such as commercial paper, medium term notes, and ICRA corporate finance revenue. MOODY'S 2023 10-K     55 The growth in CFG revenue reflected increases in both the U.S (14%) and internationally (3%). Transaction revenue increased $115 million compared to the prior year, with the most notable drivers reflecting: – higher leveraged finance (speculative-grade bonds and bank loans) and investment-grade rated issuance volumes reflecting both refinancing activity and issuance to fund M&A transactions compared to suppressed issuance activity in these sectors in the prior year. SFG REVENUE 2023 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 2022 _________________________________________________ _________ ______________________________________________ Global SFG revenue for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 was comprised as follows: The decrease in SFG revenue of 12% reflected declines in both the U.S. (18%) and internationally (1%). Transaction revenue decreased $72 million compared to 2022. The decline in SFG revenue reflected lower securitization activity across most asset classes, most notably in CMBS, resulting from higher credit spreads and market volatility given ongoing geopolitical and macroeconomic uncertainties. 56 MOODY'S 2023 10-K FIG REVENUE 2023 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 2022 _________________________________________________ _________ ______________________________________________ Global FIG revenue for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 was comprised as follows: The increase in FIG revenue of 11% reflected growth in both the U.S. (13%) and internationally (9%) which resulted in a $43 million increase in transaction revenue compared to 2022. The most notable drivers of the increase reflected: – a favorable mix of infrequent issuers within the banking sector coupled with higher rated issuance volumes; and – higher rated issuance volumes in the insurance sector. PPIF REVENUE 2023 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 2022 _________________________________________________ _________ ______________________________________________ MOODY'S 2023 10-K     57 Global PPIF revenue for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 was comprised as follows: The 10% increase in PPIF revenue reflected growth in both the U.S. (10%) and internationally (12%), which resulted in an increase in transaction revenue of $38 million compared to 2022. The most notable drivers of the growth were: – increases in investment-grade infrastructure finance activity in the U.S. and internationally; and – higher U.S. and international public finance activity. The restructuring charges in both periods relate to the Company's 2022 - 2023 Geolocation Restructuring Program as more fully discussed in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. The MIS Adjusted Operating Margin expansion primarily reflected the aforementioned 6% increase in revenue coupled with ongoing disciplined cost management. 58 MOODY'S 2023 10-K Market Risk FX risk: Moody’s maintains a presence in more than 40 countries. In 2023, approximately 41% of the Company’s revenue and approximately 38% of the Company's expenses were denominated in functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar, principally in the British pound and the euro. As such, the Company is exposed to market risk from changes in FX rates. As of December 31, 2023, approximately 52% of Moody’s assets were located outside the U.S., making the Company susceptible to fluctuations in FX rates. The effects of translating assets and liabilities of non-U.S. operations with non-U.S. functional currencies to the U.S. dollar are charged or credited to OCI. The effects of revaluing assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than a subsidiary’s functional currency are charged to other non-operating income, net in the Company’s consolidated statements of operations. Accordingly, the Company enters into foreign exchange forward contracts to partially mitigate the change in fair value on certain assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than a subsidiary’s functional currency. The following table shows the impact to the fair value of the forward contracts if currencies being purchased were to weaken by 10%: (1) Refer to Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further detail on the forward contracts. The change in fair value of the foreign exchange forward contracts would be offset by FX revaluation gains or losses on underlying assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than a subsidiary’s functional currency. Derivatives and non-derivatives designated as net investment hedges: The Company designates derivative instruments and foreign currency-denominated debt as hedges of foreign currency risk of net investments in certain foreign subsidiaries (net investment hedges) under ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging . Cross-currency swaps As of December 31, 2023, the Company had cross-currency swaps designated as hedges of euro denominated net investments in subsidiaries, for which the notional values and corresponding interest rates are disclosed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. If the euro were to strengthen 10% relative to the U.S. dollar, there would be an approximate $321 million unfavorable impact to the fair value of the cross-currency swaps recognized in OCI, which would be offset by favorable currency translation gains on the Company’s euro net investment in foreign subsidiaries. Euro-denominated debt As of December 31, 2023, the Company has designated €500 million of the 2015 Senior Notes and €750 million of the 2019 Senior Notes as a net investment hedge to mitigate FX exposure relating to euro denominated net investments in subsidiaries. If the euro were to strengthen 10% relative to the U.S. dollar, there would be an approximate $138 million unfavorable adjustment to OCI related to these net investment hedges. This adjustment would be offset by favorable translation adjustments on the Company’s euro net investment in subsidiaries. MOODY'S 2023 10-K     59 Interest rate and credit risk: Interest rate swaps designated as a fair value hedge: The Company’s interest rate risk management objectives are to reduce the funding cost and volatility to the Company and to alter the interest rate exposure to a desired risk profile. Moody’s uses interest rate swaps as deemed necessary to assist in accomplishing these objectives. The Company is exposed to interest rate risk on its various outstanding fixed-rate debt for which the fair value of the outstanding fixed rate debt fluctuates based on changes in interest rates. The Company has entered into interest rate swaps to convert the fixed interest rate on certain of its long-term debt to a floating interest rate based on the SOFR. These swaps are adjusted to fair market value based on prevailing interest rates at the end of each reporting period and fluctuations are recorded as a reduction or addition to the carrying value of the borrowing, while net interest payments are recorded as interest expense/income in the Company’s consolidated statement of operations. A hypothetical change of 100 BPS in the SOFR-based swap rate would result in an approximate $275 million change to the fair value of the swaps, which would be offset by the change in fair value of the hedged item. Additional information on these interest rate swaps is disclosed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Moody’s cash equivalents consist of investments in high-quality investment-grade securities within and outside the U.S. with maturities of three months or less when purchased. The Company manages its credit risk exposure by allocating its cash equivalents among various money market deposit accounts and certificates of deposit and by limiting the amount it can invest with any single issuer. Short-term investments primarily consist of certificates of deposit. Liquidity and Capital Resources Moody's remains committed to using its strong cash flow to create value for shareholders by both investing in the Company's employees and growing the business through targeted organic initiatives and inorganic acquisitions aligned with strategic priorities. Additional excess capital is returned to the Company’s shareholders via a combination of dividends and share repurchases. Cash Flow The Company is currently financing its operations, capital expenditures, acquisitions and share repurchases from operating and financing cash flows. The following is a summary of the changes in the Company’s cash flows followed by a brief discussion of these changes: (1) Free Cash Flow is a non-GAAP measure and is defined by the Company as net cash provided by operating activities minus cash paid for capital additions. Refer to the section entitled “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” of this MD&A for further information on this financial measure. Net cash provided by operating activities Net cash flows from operating activities increased by $677 million compared to the prior year, partly related to an increase in net income of $234 million (see section entitled “Results of Operations” of this MD&A for further discussion). Additionally, the increase in operating cash flow reflects: – higher income tax payments in the prior year of $144 million; – approximately $140 million in higher incentive compensation payments in 2022 (based on full-year 2021 financial and operating results) compared to payments made in the current year (based on full-year 2022 financial and operating results); and – the remaining increase is primarily due to various changes in working capital. Net cash used in investing activities The $15 million decrease in cash flows used in investing activities compared to 2022 primarily reflects: – higher cash paid of $94 million in the prior year for acquisitions, primarily reflecting the acquisition of kompany in 2022; – higher net purchases of investments in non-consolidated affiliates in the prior year of $80 million, reflecting the purchase of Moody's equity interest in GCR in the prior year; and – higher net sales of investments in 2023 of $49 million; mostly offset by: 60 MOODY'S 2023 10-K – higher net cash receipts of $220 million in 2022 relating to the settlement of net investment hedges. Net cash used in financing activities The $376 million increase in cash used in financing activities was primarily attributed to: – debt repayments of $500 million in 2023, compared to net issuance of $362 million in the prior year (refer to the section "Material Cash Requirements" below for further discussion on the Company's financing arrangements); partially offset by: – higher cash paid for treasury share repurchases in 2022 of $493 million, which includes payment for shares made under an ASR agreement executed in the first quarter of 2022. Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments The Company’s aggregate cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of $2.2 billion at December 31, 2023 included approximately $1.7 billion located outside of the U.S. Approximately 43% of the Company’s aggregate cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments is denominated in EUR and GBP. The Company manages both its U.S. and non-U.S. cash flow to maintain sufficient liquidity in all regions to effectively meet its operating needs. As a result of the Tax Act, all previously net undistributed foreign earnings have now been subject to U.S. tax. The Company continues to evaluate which entities it will indefinitely reinvest earnings outside the U.S. The Company has provided deferred taxes for those entities whose earnings are not considered indefinitely reinvested. Accordingly, the Company continues to repatriate a portion of its non-U.S. cash in these subsidiaries and will continue to repatriate certain of its offshore cash in a manner that addresses compliance with local statutory requirements, sufficient offshore working capital and any other factors that may be relevant in certain jurisdictions. Notwithstanding the Tax Act, which generally eliminated federal income tax on future cash repatriation to the U.S., cash repatriation may be subject to state and local taxes or withholding or similar taxes. Material Cash Requirements The Company's material cash requirements consist of the following contractual and other obligations: Financing Arrangements Indebtedness At December 31, 2023, Moody’s had $7.0 billion of outstanding debt and approximately $1 billion of additional capacity available under the Company’s CP program, which is backstopped by the $1.25 billion 2021 Facility. The repayment schedule for the Company’s borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2023 is as follows: Future interest payments and fees associated with the Company's debt and credit facility are expected to be $5.0 billion, of which approximately $300 million is expected to be paid in each of the next five years, and the remaining amount expected to be paid thereafter. For additional information on the Company's outstanding debt, CP program and 2021 Facility, refer to Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements. Management may consider pursuing additional long-term financing when it is appropriate in light of cash requirements for operations, share repurchases and other strategic opportunities, which could result in higher financing costs. Purchase Obligations Purchase obligations generally include multi-year agreements with vendors to purchase goods or services and mainly include data center/cloud hosting fees and fees for information technology licensing and maintenance. As of December 31, 2023, these purchase obligations totaled $788 million, of which approximately 40% is expected to be paid in the next twelve months and another approximate 45% expected to be paid over the next two subsequent years, with the remainder to be paid thereafter. MOODY'S 2023 10-K     61 Leases The Company has remaining payments related to its operating leases of $442 million at December 31, 2023, primarily related to real estate leases, of which $118 million in payments are expected over the next twelve months. For more information on the expected cash flows relating to the Company's operating leases, refer to Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements. Pension and Other Retirement Plan Obligations The Company does not anticipate making significant contributions to its funded pension plan in the next twelve months. This plan is overfunded at December 31, 2023, and accordingly holds sufficient investments to fund future benefit obligations. Payments for the Company's unfunded plans are not expected to be material in either the short or long-term. For further information on the Company's pension and other retirement plan obligations, refer to Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. Dividends and share repurchases On February 5, 2024, the Board approved the declaration of a quarterly dividend of $0.85 per share for Moody’s common stock, payable March 15, 2024 to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 23, 2024. The continued payment of dividends at this rate, or at all, is subject to the discretion of the Board. On February 7, 2022, the Board approved $750 million in share repurchase authority. At December 31, 2023, the Company had approximately $359 million of remaining authority. On February 5, 2024, the Board of Directors authorized an additional $1 billion in share repurchase authority. There is no established expiration date for the remaining authorizations. Restructuring As more fully discussed in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company has substantially completed the 2022 - 2023 Geolocation Restructuring Program. Future cash outlays associated with this program, which will consist of personnel-related costs, are expected to be $36 million, substantially all of which are expected to be paid through 2024. Sources of Funding to Satisfy Material Cash Requirements The Company believes that it has the financial resources needed to meet its cash requirements and expects to have positive operating cash flow in 2024. Cash requirements for periods beyond the next twelve months will depend, among other things, on the Company’s profitability and its ability to manage working capital requirements. The Company may also borrow from various sources as described above. Non-GAAP Financial Measures: In addition to its reported results, Moody’s has included in this MD&A certain adjusted results that the SEC defines as “Non-GAAP financial measures.” Management believes that such adjusted financial measures, when read in conjunction with the Company’s reported results, can provide useful supplemental information for investors analyzing period-to-period comparisons of the Company’s performance, facilitate comparisons to competitors’ operating results and can provide greater transparency to investors of supplemental information used by management in its financial and operational decision-making. These adjusted measures, as defined by the Company, are not necessarily comparable to similarly defined measures of other companies. Furthermore, these adjusted measures should not be viewed in isolation or used as a substitute for other GAAP measures in assessing the operating performance or cash flows of the Company. Below are brief descriptions of the Company’s adjusted financial measures accompanied by a reconciliation of the adjusted measure to its most directly comparable GAAP measure. Adjusted Operating Income and Adjusted Operating Margin: The Company presents Adjusted Operating Income and Adjusted Operating Margin because management deems these metrics to be useful measures to provide additional perspective on Moody's operating performance. Adjusted Operating Income excludes the impact of: i) depreciation and amortization; and ii) restructuring charges/adjustments. Depreciation and amortization are excluded because companies utilize productive assets of different useful lives and use different methods of acquiring and depreciating productive assets. Restructuring charges/adjustments are excluded as the frequency and magnitude of these charges may vary widely across periods and companies. Management believes that the exclusion of the aforementioned items, as detailed in the reconciliation below, allows for an additional perspective on the Company’s operating results from period to period and across companies. The Company defines Adjusted Operating Margin as Adjusted Operating Income divided by revenue. 62 MOODY'S 2023 10-K Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Diluted EPS attributable to Moody’s common shareholders: The Company presents Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Diluted EPS because management deems these metrics to be useful measures to provide additional perspective on Moody's operating performance. Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Diluted EPS exclude the impact of: i) amortization of acquired intangible assets; ii) restructuring charges/adjustments; iii) a gain on the extinguishment of debt; and iv) FX translation losses reclassified to earnings resulting from the Company no longer conducting commercial operations in Russia. The Company excludes the impact of amortization of acquired intangible assets as companies utilize intangible assets with different estimated useful lives and have different methods of acquiring and amortizing intangible assets. These intangible assets were recorded as part of acquisition accounting and contribute to revenue generation. The amortization of intangible assets related to acquisitions will recur in future periods until such intangible assets have been fully amortized. Furthermore, the timing and magnitude of business combination transactions are not predictable and the purchase price allocated to amortizable intangible assets and the related amortization period are unique to each acquisition and can vary significantly from period to period and across companies. Restructuring charges/adjustments, the gain on extinguishment of debt, and FX translation losses reclassified to earnings resulting from the Company no longer conducting commercial operations in Russia are excluded as the frequency and magnitude of these items may vary widely across periods and companies. The Company excludes the aforementioned items to provide additional perspective when comparing net income and diluted EPS from period to period and across companies as the frequency and magnitude of similar transactions may vary widely across periods. MOODY'S 2023 10-K     63 Note: the tax impacts in the table above were calculated using tax rates in effect in the jurisdiction for which the item relates. Free Cash Flow: The Company defines Free Cash Flow as net cash provided by operating activities minus cash paid for capital additions. Management believes that Free Cash Flow is a useful metric in assessing the Company’s cash flows to service debt, pay dividends and to fund acquisitions and share repurchases. Management deems capital expenditures essential to the Company’s product and service innovations and maintenance of Moody’s operational capabilities. Accordingly, capital expenditures are deemed to be a recurring use of Moody’s cash flow. Below is a reconciliation of the Company’s net cash flows from operating activities to Free Cash Flow: 64 MOODY'S 2023 10-K Key Performance Metrics: The Company presents ARR on a constant currency organic basis for its MA business as a supplemental performance metric to provide additional insight on the estimated value of MA's recurring revenue contracts at a given point in time. The Company uses ARR to manage and monitor performance of its MA operating segment and believes that this metric is a key indicator of the trajectory of MA's recurring revenue base. The Company calculates ARR by taking the total recurring contract value for each active renewable contract as of the reporting date, divided by the number of days in the contract and multiplied by 365 days to create an annualized value. The Company defines renewable contracts as subscriptions, term licenses, maintenance and renewable services. ARR excludes transaction sales including training, one-time services and perpetual licenses. In order to compare period-over-period ARR excluding the effects of foreign currency translation, the Company bases the calculation on currency rates utilized in its current year operating budget and holds these FX rates constant for the duration of all current and prior periods being reported. Additionally, ARR excludes contracts related to acquisitions to provide additional perspective in assessing growth excluding the impacts from certain acquisition activity. The Company’s definition of ARR may differ from definitions utilized by other companies reporting similarly named measures, and this metric should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial measures presented in accordance with GAAP. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements located in Part II, Item 8 on this Form 10-K for a discussion on the impact to the Company relating to recently issued accounting pronouncements. Contingencies Legal proceedings in which the Company is involved also may impact Moody’s liquidity or operating results. No assurance can be provided as to the outcome of such proceedings. In addition, litigation inherently involves significant costs. For information regarding legal proceedings, see Part II, Item 8 – “Financial Statements,” Note 21 “Contingencies” in this Form 10-K. Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K are forward-looking statements and are based on future expectations, plans and prospects for the Company's business and operations that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Such statements involve estimates, projections, goals, forecasts, assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those contemplated, expressed, projected, anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. Those statements appear at various places throughout this annual report on Form 10-K, including in the sections entitled “Contingencies” under Item 7, “MD&A”, commencing on page of this annual report on Form 10-K, under “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3, of this Form 10-K, and elsewhere in the context of statements containing the words “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “will,” “predict,” “potential,” “continue,” “strategy,” “aspire,” “target,” “forecast,” “project,” “estimate,” “should,” “could,” “may,” and similar expressions or words and variations thereof relating to the Company’s views on future events, trends and contingencies or otherwise convey the prospective nature of events or outcomes generally indicative of forward-looking statements. Stockholders and investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements and other information in this document are made as of the date of this annual report on Form 10-K, and the Company undertakes no obligation (nor does it intend) to publicly supplement, update or revise such statements on a going-forward basis, whether as a result of subsequent developments, changed expectations or otherwise, except as required by applicable law or regulation. In connection with the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Company is identifying certain factors that could cause actual results to differ, perhaps materially, from those indicated by these forward-looking statements. Those factors, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: – the impact of general economic conditions (including significant government debt and deficit levels, and inflation and related monetary policy actions by governments in response to inflation) on worldwide credit markets and on economic activity, including on the volume of mergers and acquisitions, and their effects on the volume of debt and other securities issued in domestic and/or global capital markets; MOODY'S 2023 10-K     65 – the uncertain effectiveness and possible collateral consequences of U.S. and foreign government initiatives and monetary policy to respond to the current economic climate, including instability of financial institutions, credit quality concerns, and other potential impacts of volatility in financial and credit markets; – the global impacts of the Russia-Ukraine military conflict and the military conflict in Israel and the surrounding areas on volatility in world financial markets, on general economic conditions and GDP in the U.S. and worldwide, on global relations and on the Company's own operations and personnel; – other matters that could affect the volume of debt and other securities issued in domestic and/or global capital markets, including regulation, increased utilization of technologies that have the potential to intensify competition and accelerate disruption and disintermediation in the financial services industry, as well as the number of issuances of securities without ratings or securities which are rated or evaluated by non-traditional parties; – the level of merger and acquisition activity in the U.S. and abroad; – the uncertain effectiveness and possible collateral consequences of U.S. and foreign government actions affecting credit markets, international trade and economic policy, including those related to tariffs, tax agreements and trade barriers; – the impact of MIS’s withdrawal of its credit ratings on countries or entities within countries and of Moody’s no longer conducting commercial operations in countries where political instability warrants such actions; – concerns in the marketplace affecting our credibility or otherwise affecting market perceptions of the integrity or utility of independent credit agency ratings; – the introduction or development of competing and/or emerging technologies and products; – pricing pressure from competitors and/or customers; – the level of success of new product development and global expansion; – the impact of regulation as an NRSRO, the potential for new U.S., state and local legislation and regulations; – the potential for increased competition and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including the EU; – exposure to litigation related to our rating opinions, as well as any other litigation, government and regulatory proceedings, investigations and inquiries to which Moody’s may be subject from time to time; – provisions in U.S. legislation modifying the pleading standards and EU regulations modifying the liability standards applicable to CRAs in a manner adverse to CRAs; – provisions of EU regulations imposing additional procedural and substantive requirements on the pricing of services and the expansion of supervisory remit to include non-EU ratings used for regulatory purposes; – uncertainty regarding the future relationship between the U.S. and China; – the possible loss of key employees and the impact of the global labor environment; – failures or malfunctions of our operations and infrastructure; – any vulnerabilities to cyber threats or other cybersecurity concerns; – the timing and effectiveness of our restructuring programs, such as the 2022 - 2023 Geolocation Restructuring Program; – currency and foreign exchange volatility; – the outcome of any review by tax authorities of Moody’s global tax planning initiatives; – exposure to potential criminal sanctions or civil remedies if Moody’s fails to comply with foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that are applicable in the jurisdictions in which Moody’s operates, including data protection and privacy laws, sanctions laws, anti-corruption laws, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials; – the impact of mergers, acquisitions, such as our acquisition of RMS, or other business combinations and the ability of Moody’s to successfully integrate acquired businesses; – the level of future cash flows; – the levels of capital investments; and – a decline in the demand for credit risk management tools by financial institutions. These factors, risks and uncertainties as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause Moody’s actual results to differ materially from those contemplated, expressed, projected, anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements are described in greater detail under “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of Moody’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023, and in other filings made by the Company from time to time with the SEC or in materials incorporated herein or therein. Stockholders and investors are cautioned that the occurrence of any of these factors, risks and uncertainties may cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those contemplated, expressed, projected, anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements, which could have a material and adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. New factors may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for the Company to predict new factors, nor can the 66 MOODY'S 2023 10-K Company assess the potential effect of any new factors on it. Forward-looking and other statements in this document may also address our corporate responsibility progress, plans, and goals (including sustainability and environmental matters), and the inclusion of such statements is not an indication that these contents are necessarily material to investors or required to be disclosed in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, historical, current, and forward-looking sustainability-related statements may be based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing, internal controls and processes that continue to evolve, and assumptions that are subject to change in the future.