********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Investing in our securities involves a variety of risks and uncertainties, known and unknown, including, among others, those discussed below. Each of the following risks should be carefully considered, together with all the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and in our other filings with the SEC. Furthermore, additional risks and uncertainty not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. Our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flow and prospects could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks or uncertainties. Business and Operational Risks We operate in a highly competitive industry and we may be unable to compete effectively. We compete in both the therapeutic and diagnostic medical markets in more than 150 countries throughout the world. These markets are characterized by rapid change resulting from technological advances and scientific discoveries. In the product lines in which we compete, we face a range of competitors from large companies with multiple business lines to small, specialized manufacturers that offer a limited selection of niche products. Development by other companies of new or improved products, processes, technologies, or the introduction of reprocessed products or generic versions when our proprietary products lose their patent protection may make our existing or planned products less competitive. In addition, we face competition from providers of alternative medical therapies, such as pharmaceutical companies. We believe our ability to compete depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: • product performance and reliability, • product technology and innovation, • product quality and safety, • breadth of product lines, • product support services, • customer support, • cost-effectiveness and price, • reimbursement approval from healthcare insurance providers, and • changes to the regulatory environment. Competition may increase as additional companies enter our markets or modify their existing products to compete directly with ours. In addition, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations also may conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for discovery, research, clinical development and marketing of products similar to ours. These companies and institutions compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, as well as in acquiring necessary product technologies. From time to time we have lost, and may in the future lose, market share in connection with product problems, physician advisories, safety alerts and publications about our products, which highlights the importance of product quality, product efficacy and quality systems to our business. In the current environment of managed care, consolidation among healthcare providers, increased competition, declining reimbursement rates, and national and provincial tender pricing, as recently experienced in China, competitively priced product offerings are essential to our success. Further, our continued growth and success depend on our ability to develop, acquire and market new and differentiated products, technologies and intellectual property, and as a result we also face competition for marketing, distribution, and collaborative development agreements, establishing relationships with academic and research institutions and licenses to intellectual property. In order to continue to compete effectively, we must continue to create, invest in or acquire advanced technology, incorporate this technology into our proprietary products, obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, and manufacture and successfully market our products. Given these factors, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete effectively or continue our level of success. 14 The ongoing global COVID-19 pandemic has had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on certain aspects of our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The nature and extent of future impacts are highly uncertain and unpredictable. Our global operations and interactions with healthcare systems, providers and patients around the world expose us to risks associated with public health crises, including epidemics and pandemics such as COVID-19. In particular, the continuing preventative and precautionary measures that we and other businesses, communities, and governments have taken to mitigate the spread of the disease has led to restrictions on, disruptions in, and other related impacts on business and personal activities, including reduced customer demand for certain of our products and has resulted in many of our employees working remotely. We expect medical procedure rates to continue to vary by therapy and country, and could be impacted by regional COVID-19 case volumes, healthcare system staffing shortages, patient’s willingness to schedule deferrable procedures, travel restrictions, transportation limitations, quarantine restrictions, vaccine and booster immunization rates, and new COVID-19 variants. While COVID-19 case volumes appear to be decreasing in the U.S and certain other countries as a result of higher vaccination rates, the global COVID-19 outlook remains uncertain as new variants emerge. Together with the preventative and precautionary measures being taken, as well as the corresponding need to adapt to new and improved methods of conducting business, such as increased remote monitoring, COVID-19 is having, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on certain aspects of our Company and business, including the demand for and supply of certain of our products, operations, supply chains and distribution systems, impacts or delays to product development milestones, clinical trials, or regulatory clearances and approval timing, and our ability to generate cash flow, and may have an adverse impact on our ability to access capital. Some of our products are more sensitive to reductions in deferrable and emergent medical procedures, and, as hospital systems prioritize treatment of COVID-19 patients and otherwise comply with government guidelines, certain medical procedures have been and may continue to be suspended or postponed. It is not possible to predict the timing of deferrable medical procedures and, to the extent individuals and hospital systems de-prioritize, delay or cancel these procedures, or if unemployment or loss of insurance coverage adversely impacts an individual’s ability to pay for our products and services, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could continue to be negatively affected. Further, the COVID-19 pandemic has strained hospital systems around the world, resulting in adverse financial impacts to those systems that could result in reduced future expenditures for certain capital equipment and other products and services we provide, as well as potential disruption of product launches of our recently approved products. A number of our global suppliers, vendors, and distributors have been adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, including employee absenteeism. These impacts could impair our ability to move our products through distribution channels to end customers, and any such delay or shortage in the supply of components or materials may result in our inability to satisfy consumer demand for certain of our products in a timely manner or at all, which could harm our reputation, future sales and profitability. COVID-19 has impacted and may further impact the global economy and capital markets, including by negatively impacting demand for a number of our products, access to capital markets (including the commercial paper market), foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates, each of which may adversely impact our business and liquidity. We could experience loss of sales and profits due to delayed payments or insolvency of healthcare professionals, hospitals and other customers, suppliers and vendors facing liquidity issues. As a result, we may be compelled to take additional measures to preserve our cash flow. COVID-19 could adversely impact our ability to retain key employees and the continued service and availability of skilled personnel necessary to run our complex productions and operations, including our executive officers and other key members of our management team. While the impact of COVID-19 has had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, the nature and extent of such impact is highly uncertain and unpredictable, as we cannot predict with confidence the duration of the pandemic. Reduction or interruption in supply or other manufacturing difficulties may adversely affect our manufacturing operations and related product sales. The manufacture of our products requires the timely delivery of a sufficient amount of quality components and materials and is highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. We manufacture the majority of our products and procure important third-party services, such as sterilization services, at numerous facilities worldwide. We purchase many of the components, raw materials and services needed to manufacture these products from numerous suppliers in various countries. We seek to maintain continuity of supply by use of multiple options for sourcing where possible. We have generally been able to obtain adequate supplies of such raw materials, components and services, although global shortages of certain components such as semiconductors and resins have recently caused, and may in the future cause, disruptions to our product manufacturing supply chain. In addition, for reasons of quality assurance, cost effectiveness, or availability, certain components, raw materials and services needed to manufacture our products are obtained from a sole supplier. Although we work closely with our suppliers to try to ensure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability, the supply of these components, raw materials and services may be interrupted or insufficient. In addition, due to the stringent regulations and requirements of regulatory agencies, including the U.S. FDA, regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources. Additionally, many regulatory agencies are imposing regulatory requirements on safe use of 15 chemicals and their potential impact on health and the environment which also may impact supply constraints. Furthermore, the prices of commodities and other materials used in our products, which are often volatile and outside of our control, could adversely impact our supply. We use resins, other petroleum-based materials and pulp as raw materials in some of our products, and the prices of oil and gas also significantly affect our costs for freight and utilities. A reduction or interruption in supply, and an inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in a timely or cost-effective manner and could result in lost sales. Other disruptions in the manufacturing process or product sales and fulfillment systems for any reason, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, supplier facility shut-downs, defective raw materials, natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, or wildfires, property damage or facility closures from riots or public protests, and other environmental factors and the impact of epidemics or pandemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, and actions by businesses, communities and governments in response, could lead to launch delays, product shortage, unanticipated costs, lost revenues and damage to our reputation. For example, in the past we have experienced a global information technology systems interruption that affected our customer ordering, distribution, and manufacturing processes, and we have been adversely impacted by, and may continue to be adversely impacted by, the global COVID-19 pandemic and the responses of governments and of our partners, including suppliers, manufacturers, distributors and other businesses. Furthermore, any failure to identify and address manufacturing problems prior to the release of products to our customers could result in quality or safety issues. In addition, many of our products require sterilization before sale and several of our key products are manufactured or sterilized at a particular facility, with limited alternate facilities. If an event occurs that results in damage to or closure of one or more of such facilities, such as the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency's decision to close a supplier's sterilization facility in February 2019, we may be unable to manufacture or sterilize the relevant products to the required quality specifications or at all. Because of the time required to approve and license a manufacturing or sterilization facility, a third-party may not be available on a timely basis to replace production capacity in the event manufacturing or sterilization capacity is lost. Our research and development efforts rely upon investments and investment collaborations, and we cannot guarantee that any previous or future investments or investment collaborations will be successful. Our Mission is to provide a broad range of therapies to restore patients to fuller, healthier lives, which requires a wide variety of technologies, products and capabilities. The rapid pace of technological development in the medical industry and the specialized expertise required in different areas of medicine make it difficult for one company alone to develop a broad portfolio of technological solutions. In addition to internally generated growth through our research and development efforts, historically we have relied, and expect to continue to rely, upon investments and investment collaborations to provide us access to new technologies both in areas served by our existing businesses as well as in new areas. We expect to make future investments where we believe that we can stimulate the development or acquisition of new technologies and products to further our strategic objectives and strengthen our existing businesses. Investments and investment collaborations in and with medical technology companies are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that any of our previous or future investments or investment collaborations will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The continuing development of many of our products depends upon us maintaining strong relationships with healthcare professionals. If we fail to maintain our working relationships with healthcare professionals, many of our products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, which could cause a decline in our earnings and profitability. The research, development, marketing and sales of many of our new and improved products depends on our maintaining working relationships with healthcare professionals. We rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding the development, marketing and sale of our products. Physicians assist us as researchers, marketing and product consultants, inventors and public speakers. In addition, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, our access to these professionals has been limited at times, and travel restrictions, shutdowns and similar measures have impacted our ability to maintain these relationships, thereby affecting our ability to develop, market and sell new and improved products. If we are unable to maintain strong relationships with these professionals, the development and marketing of our products could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We have debt obligations that create risk. We are required to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest or principal on our outstanding indebtedness instead of for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion of our business. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future to supplement our existing liquidity and cash generated from operations to satisfy our needs for working capital and capital expenditures, to pursue growth initiatives, and to make returns of capital to shareholders. At the time we incur such additional indebtedness, or refinance or restructure existing indebtedness, we may be unable to obtain capital market financing with similar terms and currency denomination, or at 16 all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. At any time, the value of our debt outstanding will fluctuate based on several factors including foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate movements. Failure to integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully, as well as liabilities or claims relating to such acquired businesses, could adversely affect our business. As part of our strategy to develop and identify new products and technologies, we have made several significant acquisitions in recent years, and may make additional acquisitions in the future. Our integration of the operations of acquired businesses requires significant efforts, including the coordination of information technologies, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing, and finance. These efforts result in additional expenses and involve significant amounts of management’s time that cannot then be dedicated to other projects. Our failure to manage and coordinate the growth of acquired companies successfully could also have an adverse impact on our business. Further, acquired businesses may have liabilities, or be subject to claims, litigation or investigations that we did not anticipate or which exceed our estimates at the time of the acquisition. In addition, we cannot be certain that the businesses we acquire will become profitable or remain so. Factors that will affect the success of our acquisitions include: • the presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the financial systems of acquired companies, • our ability or inability to integrate information technology systems of acquired companies in a secure and reliable manner, • liabilities, claims, litigation, investigations, or other adverse developments relating to acquired businesses or the business practices of acquired companies, including investigations by governmental entities, potential FCPA or product liability claims or other unanticipated liabilities, • any decrease in customer loyalty and product orders caused by dissatisfaction with the combined companies’ product lines and sales and marketing practices, including price increases, • our ability to retain key employees, and • the ability to achieve synergies among acquired companies, such as increasing sales of the integrated company’s products, achieving cost savings, and effectively combining technologies to develop new products. We also could experience negative effects on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows from acquisition-related charges, amortization of intangible assets and asset impairment charges. Legal and Regulatory Risks We are subject to extensive and complex laws and governmental regulations and any adverse regulatory action may materially adversely affect our financial condition and business operations. Our medical devices and technologies, as well as our business activities, are subject to a complex set of regulations and rigorous enforcement, including by the U.S. FDA, U.S. Department of Justice, Health and Human Services-Office of the Inspector General, and numerous other federal, state, and non-U.S. governmental authorities. To varying degrees, each of these agencies requires us to comply with laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing and distribution of our products. As a part of the regulatory process of obtaining marketing clearance for new products and new indications for existing products, we conduct and participate in numerous clinical trials with a variety of study designs, patient populations, and trial endpoints. Unfavorable clinical data from existing or future clinical trials may adversely impact our ability to obtain product approvals, our position in, and share of, the markets in which we participate, and our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain or maintain marketing clearance for our new products or enhancements or modifications to existing products, and the failure to maintain approvals or obtain approval or clearance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Even if we are able to obtain approval or clearance, it may: • take a significant amount of time, • require the expenditure of substantial resources, • involve stringent clinical and pre-clinical testing, as well as increased post-market surveillance, • involve modifications, repairs or replacements of our products, and • limit the proposed uses of our products. Both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under the U.S. FDA and other applicable non-U.S. government agency regulations. For instance, many of our facilities and procedures and those of our suppliers are also subject to periodic inspections by the U.S. FDA to determine compliance with applicable regulations. The results of these inspections can include inspectional observations on the U.S. FDA’s Form-483, warning letters, or other forms of enforcement. If the U.S. FDA were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical products are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the U.S. FDA could ban such medical products, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical products, order 17 a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such products, refuse to grant pending pre-market approval applications or require certificates of non-U.S governments for exports, and/or require us to notify health professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. The U.S. FDA and other non-U.S. government agencies may also assess civil or criminal penalties against us, our officers or employees and impose operating restrictions on a company-wide basis. The U.S. FDA may also recommend prosecution to the U.S. Department of Justice. Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively marketing and selling our products and limit our ability to obtain future pre-market clearances or approvals, and could result in a substantial modification to our business practices and operations. Furthermore, we occasionally receive subpoenas or other requests for information from state and federal governmental agencies, and while these investigations typically relate primarily to financial arrangements with healthcare providers, regulatory compliance and product promotional practices, we cannot predict the timing, outcome or impact of any such investigations. Any adverse outcome in one or more of these investigations could include the commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings, substantial fines, penalties, and/or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs and/or entry into Corporate Integrity Agreements (CIAs) with governmental agencies. In addition, resolution of any of these matters could involve the imposition of additional, costly compliance obligations. These potential consequences, as well as any adverse outcome from government investigations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. In addition, the U.S. FDA has taken the position that device manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products other than for the uses and indications set forth in the approved product labeling, and any failure to comply could subject us to significant civil or criminal exposure, administrative obligations and costs, and/or other potential penalties from, and/or agreements with, the federal government. Governmental regulations in the U.S. and outside the U.S. are constantly changing and may become increasingly stringent. In the European Union, for example, the Medical Device Regulation which became effective in May 2021 includes significant additional pre-market and post-market requirements. Penalties for regulatory non-compliance could be severe, including fines and revocation or suspension of a company’s business license, mandatory price reductions and criminal sanctions. The development and implementation of future laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on us. Our failure to comply with laws and regulations relating to reimbursement of healthcare goods and services may subject us to penalties and adversely impact our reputation, business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our devices, products and therapies are purchased principally by hospitals or physicians that typically bill various third-party payers, such as governmental healthcare programs (e.g., Medicare, Medicaid and comparable non-U.S. programs), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. The ability of our customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for products and services from third-party payers is critical because it affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. As a result, our devices, products and therapies are subject to regulation regarding quality and cost by HHS, including the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), as well as comparable state and non-U.S. agencies responsible for reimbursement and regulation of health are goods and services, including laws and regulations related to kickbacks, false claims, self-referrals and healthcare fraud. Many states have similar laws that apply to reimbursement by state Medicaid and other funded programs as well as in some cases to all payers. In certain circumstances, insurance companies attempt to bring a private cause of action against a manufacturer for causing false claims. In addition, as a manufacturer of U.S. FDA-approved devices reimbursable by federal healthcare programs, we are subject to the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which requires us to annually report certain payments and other transfers of value we make to U.S.-licensed physicians or U.S. teaching hospitals. Any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us or our officers and employees to criminal and civil financial penalties. We are also subject to risks relating to changes in government and private medical reimbursement programs and policies, and changes in legal regulatory requirements in the U.S. and around the world. Implementation of further legislative or administrative reforms to these reimbursement systems, or adverse decisions relating to coverage of or reimbursement for our products by administrators of these systems, could have an impact on the acceptance of and demand for our products and the prices that our customers are willing to pay for them. We are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to our rights or the rights of others may result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impacting our ability to sell current or future products. We are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights and rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, tradenames, copyrights, trade secrets, and agreements (such as employee, non-disclosure and non-competition agreements) to protect our business and proprietary intellectual property. We also operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. Patent litigation can result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent our manufacture and sale of affected products or require us to pay significant royalties in order to continue to manufacture or sell affected products. At any given time, we are generally involved as both a plaintiff and a defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. While it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent litigation, it is possible that the results of such litigation could require us to pay significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or that enforcement actions to protect our patent and proprietary rights against others could be unsuccessful, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our 18 business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. In addition, any public announcements related to litigation or administrative proceedings initiated or threatened against us could cause our stock price to decline. While we intend to defend against any threats to our intellectual property, our patents, trademarks, tradenames, copyrights, trade secrets or agreements (such as employee, non-disclosure and non-competition agreements) may not adequately protect our intellectual property. Further, pending patent applications may not result in patents being issued to us, patents issued to or licensed by us may be challenged or circumvented by competitors and such patents may be found invalid, unenforceable or too limited in scope to protect our technology or provide us with any competitive advantage. In addition, our patents will expire over time, our ability to protect novel business models is uncertain, and infringement may go undetected. Third parties could obtain patents that may require us to negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and such licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. In addition, license agreements could be terminated. We also rely on non-disclosure and non-competition agreements with certain employees, consultants and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary rights. We cannot be certain that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or proprietary knowledge. In addition, the laws of certain countries in which we market or manufacture some of our products do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S., which could make it easier for competitors to capture market position. Competitors also may harm our sales by designing products that substantially mirror the capabilities of our products or technology without infringing our intellectual property rights. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property in these countries, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Quality problems could lead to recalls or safety alerts, product liability claims, reputational harm, adverse verdicts or costly settlements, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Quality is extremely important to us and our customers due to the impact on patients, and the serious and potentially costly consequences of adverse product performance. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture, and marketing of medical devices. In addition, many of our products are often used in intensive care settings with seriously ill patients and some of the medical devices we manufacture and sell are designed to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time or indefinitely. Component failures, manufacturing nonconformances, design defects, off-label use, or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information with respect to our products, if they were to occur, could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a patient. These problems could lead to recall of, or issuance of a safety alert relating to, our products, and could result in product liability claims and lawsuits, including class actions, which could ultimately result, in certain cases, in the removal from the body of such products and claims regarding costs associated therewith. Due to the strong name recognition of the Medtronic brand, a material adverse event involving one of our products could result in diminished market acceptance and demand for all products within that brand, and could harm our reputation and ability to market products in the future. Further, we may be exposed to additional potential product liability risks related to products designed, manufactured and/or marketed in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and unpredictable or accelerated changes in demand for certain of our products in connection with COVID-19 and its related impacts could impact development and production of products and services and could increase the risk of regulatory enforcement actions, product defects or related claims, as well as adversely impact our customer relationships and reputation. Strong product quality is critical to the success of our goods and services. If we fall short of these standards and our products are the subject of recalls or safety alerts, our reputation could be damaged, we could lose customers and our revenue and results of operations could decline. Our success also can depend on our ability to manufacture to exact specification precision-engineered components, subassemblies and finished devices from multiple materials. If our components fail to meet these standards or fail to adapt to evolving standards, our reputation, competitive advantage and market share could be harmed. In certain situations, we may undertake a voluntary recall of products or temporarily shut down production lines based on performance relative to our own internal safety and quality monitoring and testing data. Any of the foregoing problems, including future product liability claims or recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Healthcare policy changes may have a material adverse effect on us. In response to perceived increases in healthcare costs in recent years, there have been and continue to be actions and proposals by several governments, regulators and third-party payers globally, including the U.S. federal and state governments, to control these costs and, more generally, to reform healthcare systems. Certain of these actions and proposals, among other things, limit the prices we are able to charge for our products or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products and could limit the acceptance and availability of our products. These actions and proposals could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 19 We rely on the proper function, security and availability of our information technology systems and data, as well as those of third parties throughout our global supply chain, to operate our business, and a breach, cyber-attack or other disruption to these systems or data could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, reputation or competitive position. We are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology systems to operate our business. That technology includes systems that could be used to process, transmit and store sensitive data. Additionally, many of our products and services include integrated software and information technology that collects data regarding patients or connects to other internal systems. One of the most prevalent attacks on large organizations has been ransomware which can have a devastating impact on an organization’s operations. We have invested in ransomware readiness in the pursuit of both prevention and rapid response to a ransomware event. Like all organizations, we routinely experience attempted interference with the integrity of, and interruptions in, our technology systems via events such as cyber-attacks, malicious intrusions, or other breakdowns. The consequences could mean data breaches, interference with the integrity of our products and data, compromise of intellectual property or other proprietary information, or other significant disruptions. Furthermore, we rely on third-party vendors to supply and/or support certain aspects of our information technology systems and resulting products. As we have seen with recent “Supply Chain Attacks,” these third-party systems could also become vulnerable to cyber-attack, malicious intrusions, breakdowns, interference, or other significant disruptions, and may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could result in system disruption or compromise the information security of our own systems. The Russia-Ukraine conflict may increase cybersecurity risks on a global basis. Lastly, we continue to grow in part through new business acquisitions and, as a result, may face risks associated with defects and vulnerabilities in their systems, or difficulties or other breakdowns or disruptions in connection with the integration of the acquisitions into our information technology systems. Our worldwide operations mean that we are subject to laws and regulations, including data protection and cybersecurity laws and regulations, in many jurisdictions. The variety of U.S. and international privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations impacting our operations are described in “Item 1. Business" – Other Factors Impacting Our Operations – Data Privacy and Security Laws and Regulations . Any data security breaches, cyber-attacks, malicious intrusions or significant disruptions could result in actions by regulatory bodies and/or civil litigation, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, reputation, or competitive position. In addition, our information technology systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and enhance existing systems and develop new systems. This enables us to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving legal and regulatory standards, the increasing need to protect patient and customer information, changes in the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to data and information systems, and the information technology needs associated with our changing products and services. There can be no assurance that our extensive efforts (including, but not limited to, consolidating, protecting, upgrading, and expanding our systems and capabilities, continuing to build security into the design of our products, and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology) will be successful or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. If our information technology systems, products or services or sensitive data are compromised, there are many consequences that could result. Consequences include, but are not limited to patients or employees being exposed to financial or medical identity theft or suffer a loss of product functionality, losing existing customers or have difficulty attracting new customers, experiencing difficulty preventing, detecting, and controlling fraud, being exposed to the loss or misuse of confidential information, having disputes with customers, physicians, and other healthcare professionals, suffering regulatory sanctions or penalties under federal laws, state laws, or the laws of other jurisdictions, experiencing increases in operating expenses or an impairment in our ability to conduct our operations, incurring expenses or losing revenues as a result of a data privacy breach, product failure, information technology outages or disruptions, or suffering other adverse consequences including lawsuits or other legal action and damage to our reputation. The failure to comply with anti-corruption laws could materially adversely affect our business and result in civil and/or criminal sanctions. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the Irish Criminal Justice (Corruption Offences) Act 2018, and similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Because of the predominance of government-administered healthcare systems in many jurisdictions around the world, many of our customer relationships outside of the U.S. are with governmental entities and are therefore potentially subject to such laws. We also participate in public-private partnerships and other commercial and policy arrangements with governments around the globe. Global enforcement of anti-corruption laws has increased in recent years, including investigations and enforcement proceedings leading to assessment of significant fines and penalties against companies and individuals. Our international operations create a risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents, or distributors. We maintain policies and programs to implement safeguards to educate our employees and agents on these legal requirements, and to prevent and prohibit improper practices. However, existing safeguards and any future improvements may not always be effective, and our employees, consultants, sales agents or 20 distributors may engage in conduct for which we could be held responsible. In addition, regulators could seek to hold us liable for conduct committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. Any alleged or actual violations of these regulations may subject us to government scrutiny, criminal or civil sanctions and other liabilities, including exclusion from government contracting, and could disrupt our business, adversely affect our reputation and result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Laws and regulations governing international business operations could adversely impact our business. The U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) and the U.S. Commerce Department’s Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) administer certain laws and regulations that restrict U.S. persons and, in some instances, non-U.S. persons, in conducting activities, transacting business with, or making investments in, certain countries, governments, entities and individuals subject to U.S. economic sanctions or export restrictions. Our international operations subject us to these laws and regulations, which are complex, restrict our business dealings with certain countries, governments, entities, and individuals, and are constantly changing. Further restrictions may be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner that materially impacts our operations. From time to time, certain of our subsidiaries have limited business dealings in countries subject to comprehensive sanctions, including Iran, Syria, Cuba and the region of Crimea. Certain of our subsidiaries sell medical devices, and may provide related services, to distributors and other purchasing bodies in such countries. These business dealings represent an insignificant amount of our consolidated revenues and income, but expose us to a heightened risk of violating applicable sanctions regulations. Violations of these regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. We have established policies and procedures designed to assist with our compliance with such laws and regulations. However, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, and such a violation could adversely affect our reputation, business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change may materially adversely affect our financial condition and business operations. Climate change resulting from increased concentrations of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere presents risks to our current and future operations from natural disasters and extreme weather conditions, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, wildfires or flooding. Such extreme weather conditions and other conditions caused by or related to climate change could increase our operational costs, pose physical risks to our facilities and adversely impact our supply chain, including: manufacturing and distribution networks, the availability and cost of raw materials and components, energy supply, transportation, or other inputs necessary for the operation of our business. The impacts of climate change on global water resources may result in water scarcity, which could impact our ability to access sufficient quantities of water in certain locations and result in increased costs. Concerns over climate change could have an impact on customer demand for our products and result in new legal or regulatory requirements designed to mitigate the effects of climate change on the environment. Although it is difficult to predict and adequately prepare to meet the challenges to our business posed by climate change, if new laws or regulations are more stringent than current legal or regulatory requirements, we may experience increased compliance burdens and costs to meet the regulatory obligations as well as adverse impacts on raw material sourcing, manufacturing operations and the distribution of our products. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations and the risk of environmental liabilities, violations and litigation. We are subject to environmental, health, and safety laws, and regulations concerning, among other things, the generation, handling, transportation, and disposal of hazardous substances or wastes, the remediation of hazardous substances or materials at various sites, and emissions or discharges into the land, air or water. We are further subject to numerous, laws and regulations concerning, among other things, chemical constituents in medical products and end-of-life disposal and take-back programs for medical devices. Our operations and those of certain third-party suppliers involve the use of substances subject to these laws and regulations, primarily those used in manufacturing and sterilization processes. If we or our suppliers violate these environmental laws and regulations, facilities could be shut down and violators could be fined, or otherwise sanctioned. New laws and regulations, violations of these laws or regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements, or the discovery of previously unknown contamination could require us to incur costs or could become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could be material. Our insurance program may not be adequate to cover future losses. We have elected to self-insure most of our insurable risks across the Company, and we made this decision based on cost and availability factors in the insurance marketplace. We manage and maintain a portion of our self-insured program through a wholly-owned captive insurance company. We continue to maintain a directors and officers liability insurance policy with third-party insurers that provides coverage for the directors and officers of the Company. We continue to monitor the insurance marketplace to evaluate the value of obtaining insurance coverage for other categories of losses in the future. Although we believe, based on historical loss trends, that our self-insurance program accruals and our existing insurance coverage will be adequate to cover future losses, historical trends may not be indicative of 21 future losses. The absence of third-party insurance coverage for other categories of losses increases our exposure to unanticipated claims and these losses could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are subject to income taxes, as well as non-income based taxes, in the U.S., Ireland, and various other jurisdictions in which we operate. The tax laws in the U.S., Ireland and other countries in which we and our affiliates do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could materially adversely affect our business and our effective tax rate. For example, on December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted comprehensive tax legislation, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act"), which resulted in a significant charge to tax expense during our fiscal year 2018 associated with U.S. taxation of accumulated foreign earnings as well as the requirement to revalue U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from the reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate. In addition, the Biden Administration has provided a framework for proposed U.S. tax law changes, which if enacted could have a material impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. In October 2021, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) secured agreement from 136 countries to push forward with proposals to fundamentally rewrite International Tax rules which if enacted by these countries, will likely impact the amount of tax multinationals such as Medtronic pay in the future. During 2022 and 2023 more details on these proposals will be released and various consultations will take place. The OECD has set a timeline for the implementation of these proposals in 2023 but may end up being deferred to a later date. The aggressive nature of the timeline set by the OECD may mean that all implications for business may not have been fully worked through or fully understood before rules are finalized. We continue to monitor the implications potentially resulting from this guidance. This action together with other legislative changes in many countries on the mandatory sharing of company information (financial and operational) with taxing authorities on a local and global basis under various information sharing initiatives, could lead to disagreements between jurisdictions associated with the proper allocation of profits between such jurisdictions. We are subject to ongoing tax audits in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We have recorded reserves for potential payments of tax to various tax authorities related to uncertain tax positions. However, the calculation of such tax liabilities involves the application of complex tax laws, regulations and treaties (where applicable) in many jurisdictions. Therefore, any dispute with a tax authority may result in a payment that is significantly different from current estimates. If payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be less than the recorded amounts, the reversal of the liabilities generally would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. If our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the amount for which it is ultimately liable, we would incur additional charges, and such charges could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. The Medtronic, Inc. tax court proceeding outcome could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. In March 2009, the IRS issued its audit report for Medtronic Inc. for fiscal years 2005 and 2006. Medtronic, Inc. reached agreements with the IRS on some, but not all matters related to these fiscal years. The remaining unresolved issue for fiscal years 2005 and 2006 relates to the allocation of income between Medtronic, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiary operating in Puerto Rico, which is one of our key manufacturing sites. An adverse outcome in this matter could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. See Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Future potential changes to the U.S. tax laws could result in us being treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes, and the IRS may not agree with the conclusion that we should be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S federal income tax purposes. Because Medtronic plc is organized under the laws of Ireland, we would generally be classified as a foreign corporation under the general rule that a corporation is considered tax resident in the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Even so, the IRS may assert that we should be treated as a U.S. corporation (and, therefore, a U.S. tax resident) for U.S. federal income tax purposes pursuant to Section 7874 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). In addition, a retroactive change to U.S. tax laws in this area could change this classification. If we were to be treated as a U.S. corporation for federal tax purposes, we could be subject to substantially greater U.S. tax liability than currently contemplated as a non-U.S. corporation. 22 Legislative or other governmental action relating to the denial of U.S. federal or state governmental contracts to U.S. companies that redomicile abroad could adversely affect our business. Various U.S. federal and state legislative proposals that would deny governmental contracts to U.S. companies that move their corporate location abroad may affect us. We are unable to predict the likelihood that, or final form in which, any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of the regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the effect such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business. Risks Relating to Our Jurisdiction of Incorporation We are incorporated in Ireland, and Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the U.S. and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. Our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. It may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the U.S. against us in Ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. In addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of Ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised that the U.S. currently does not have a treaty with Ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any U.S. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in Ireland. As an Irish company, we are governed by the Irish Companies Act 2014, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. Likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an Irish company generally are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. Accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in the U.S. As an Irish public limited company, certain capital structure decisions require shareholder approval, which may limit Medtronic’s flexibility to manage its capital structure. Under Irish law, our authorized share capital can be increased by an ordinary resolution of our shareholders and the directors may issue new ordinary or preferred shares, without shareholder approval, once authorized to do so by our articles of association or by an ordinary resolution of our shareholders. Additionally, subject to specified exceptions, Irish law grants statutory preemption rights to existing shareholders where shares are being issued for cash consideration but allows shareholders to disapply such statutory preemption rights either in our articles of association or by way of special resolution. Such disapplication can either be generally applicable or be in respect of a particular allotment of shares. Accordingly, at our 2021 Annual General Meeting, our Shareholders authorized our Board of Directors to issue up to 33% of our issued ordinary shares and further authorized our Board of Directors to issue up to 10% of such shares for cash without first offering them to our existing shareholders (provided that with respect to 5% of such shares, such allotment is to be used for the purposes of a specified capital investment). Both of these authorizations will expire on June 9, 2023, unless renewed by shareholders for a further period. We anticipate seeking new authorizations at our 2022 Annual General Meeting and in subsequent years. We cannot provide any assurance that these authorizations will always be approved, which could limit our ability to issue equity and thereby adversely affect the holders of our securities. A transfer of our shares, other than ones effected by means of the transfer of book-entry interests in the Depository Trust Company, may be subject to Irish stamp duty. Transfers of our shares effected by means of the transfer of book entry interests in the Depository Trust Company (DTC) will not be subject to Irish stamp duty. However, if a shareholder holds our shares directly rather than beneficially through DTC, any transfer of shares could be subject to Irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the higher of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired). Payment of Irish stamp duty is generally a legal obligation of the transferee. The potential for stamp duty could adversely affect the price of shares. In certain limited circumstances, dividends we pay may be subject to Irish dividend withholding tax and dividends received by Irish residents and certain other shareholders may be subject to Irish income tax. In certain limited circumstances, dividend withholding tax (currently at a rate of 25%) may arise in respect of dividends paid on our shares. A number of exemptions from dividend withholding tax exist such that shareholders resident in the U.S. and other specified countries that have a tax treaty with Ireland may be entitled to exemptions from dividend withholding tax. Shareholders resident in the U.S. that hold their shares through DTC will not be subject to dividend withholding tax, provided the addresses of the beneficial owners of such shares in the records of the brokers holding such shares are recorded as being in the U.S. (and such brokers 23 have further transmitted the relevant information to a qualifying intermediary appointed by us). However, other shareholders may be subject to dividend withholding tax, which could adversely affect the price of their shares. Shareholders entitled to an exemption from Irish dividend withholding tax on dividends received from us will not be subject to Irish income tax in respect of those dividends unless they have some connection with Ireland other than their shareholding in our Company (for example, they are resident in Ireland). Shareholders who are not resident nor ordinarily resident in Ireland, but who receive dividends subject to Irish dividend withholding tax, will generally have no further liability to Irish income tax on those dividends. Our shares received by means of a gift or inheritance could be subject to Irish capital acquisitions tax. Irish capital acquisitions tax (CAT) could apply to a gift or inheritance of our shares irrespective of the place of residence, ordinary residence or domicile of the parties. This is because our shares will be regarded as property situated in Ireland. The person who receives the gift or inheritance has primary liability for CAT. Gifts and inheritances passing between spouses are exempt from CAT. Children currently have a tax-free threshold of €335,000 in respect of taxable gifts or inheritances received from their parents. Irish Revenue typically updates the amount of this tax-free threshold on an annual basis. Economic and Industry Risks Changes in the prices of our goods and services and/or inflationary costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, decreasing prices for certain of our goods and services due to pricing pressure from managed care organizations and other third-party payers on our customers, increased market power of our customers as the medical device industry consolidates and increased competition among medical engineering and manufacturing services providers. We have also recently experienced, and may continue to experience, rising costs due to inflation. If the prices for our goods and services change or inflation continues to rise, we may be unable to sufficiently reduce our expenses or offset rising costs through increased prices to customers. As a result, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected. We are subject to a variety of risks associated with global operations that could adversely affect our profitability and operating results. We develop, manufacture, distribute and sell our products globally. We intend to continue to expand our operations and to pursue growth opportunities outside the U.S., especially in emerging markets. Operations in different countries including emerging markets could expose us to additional and greater risks and potential costs, including: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, • healthcare reform legislation, • the need to comply with different regulatory regimes worldwide that are subject to change and that could restrict our ability to manufacture and sell our products, • local product preferences and product requirements, • longer-term receivables than are typical in the U.S., • trade protection measures, tariffs and other border taxes, and import or export licensing requirements, • less intellectual property protection in some countries outside the U.S. than exists in the U.S., • different labor regulations and workforce instability, • political and economic instability, including as a result of wars and insurrections, • the expiration and non-renewal of foreign tax rulings and/or grants, • potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws, and • economic instability and inflation, recession or interest rate fluctuations. The ongoing global economic competition and trade tensions between the U.S. and China present risk to Medtronic. Although we have been able to mitigate some of the impact on Medtronic from increased duties imposed by both sides (through petitioning both governments for tariff exclusions and other mitigations), the risk remains of additional tariffs and other kinds of restrictions. Tariff exclusions awarded to Medtronic by the U.S. Government require periodic renewal, and policies for granting exclusions could shift. The U.S. and China could impose other types of restrictions such as limitations on government procurement or technology export restrictions, which could affect Medtronic’s access to the markets. China comprises approximately eight percent of our total revenues. The Russia-Ukraine conflict and resulting sanctions and export restrictions are creating barriers to doing business in Russia and adversely impacting global supply chains. While we have no manufacturing, distribution or direct material suppliers in the region, we are closely monitoring the potential raw material/sub-tier supplier impact in both Russia and Ukraine. Materials like palladium and neon, which are both dependent on Russia supply, are part of broader semiconductor shortages in industry. Additional sanctions, export restrictions, and 24 potential countermeasures within Russia may lead to greater uncertainty and geopolitical shifts in Asia that could cause additional adverse impacts on global supply chains and our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. More generally, several governments including the U.S. have raised the possibility of policies to induce “re-shoring” of supply chains, less reliance on imported supplies, and greater national production. Examples include potential “Buy America” requirements in the U.S. If such steps triggered retaliation in other markets restricting access to foreign products in purchases by their government-owned healthcare systems, the result could be a significant impact on Medtronic. Other significant changes or disruptions to international trade arrangements, such as termination or modifications of other existing trade agreements, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, a significant amount of our trade receivables are with national healthcare systems in many countries. Repayment of these receivables is dependent upon the political and financial stability of those countries. In light of these global economic fluctuations, we continue to monitor the creditworthiness of customers. Failure to receive payment of all or a significant portion of these receivables could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The COVID-19 pandemic, and the responses of business and governments to the pandemic, have at times resulted in reduced availability of air transport, port closures, increased border controls or closures, increased transportation costs and increased security threats to our supply chain, and countries may continue to close borders, impose prolonged quarantines, and further restrict travel and other activities. Our business could be adversely impacted if we are unable to successfully manage these and other risks of global operations. Finally, changes in currency exchange rates may impact the reported value of our revenues, expenses, and cash flows. We cannot predict changes in currency exchange rates, the impact of exchange rate changes, nor the degree to which we will be able to manage the impact of currency exchange rate changes. Consolidation in the healthcare industry could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Many healthcare industry companies, including healthcare systems, distributors, manufacturers, providers, and insurers, are consolidating or have formed strategic alliances. As the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide goods and services to industry participants will become more intense. Further, this consolidation creates larger enterprises with greater negotiating power, which they can use to negotiate price concessions. If we must reduce our prices because of industry consolidation, or if we lose customers as a result of consolidation, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be adversely affected. Healthcare industry cost-containment measures could result in reduced sales of our medical devices and medical device components. Most of our customers, and the healthcare providers to whom our customers supply medical devices, rely on third-party payers, including government programs and private health insurance plans, to reimburse some or all of the cost of the procedures in which medical devices that incorporate components we manufacture or assemble are used. The continuing efforts of governmental authorities, insurance companies and other payers of healthcare costs to contain or reduce these costs could lead to patients being unable to obtain approval for payment from these third-party payers. If third-party payer payment approval cannot be obtained by patients, sales of finished medical devices that include our components may decline significantly and our customers may reduce or eliminate purchases of our components. The cost-containment measures that healthcare providers are instituting, both in the U.S. and outside of the U.S., could harm our ability to operate profitably. For example, managed care organizations have successfully negotiated volume discounts for pharmaceuticals, and GPOs and IDNs have also concentrated purchasing decisions for some customers, which has led to downward pricing pressure for medical device companies, including us.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

UNDERSTANDING OUR FINANCIAL INFORMATION The following discussion and analysis provides information management believes to be relevant to understanding the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. The discussi on focuses on our financial results for the fiscal year ended April 29, 2022 (fiscal year 2022) and the fiscal year ended April 30, 2021 (fiscal year 2021). A discussion on our results of operations for fiscal year 2021 as compared to the year ended April 24, 2020 (fiscal year 2020) is included in Part II, Item 7. "Mana gement's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended April 30, 2021 , filed with the SEC on June 25, 2021, and is i ncorporated by reference into this Form 10-K . You should read this discussion and analysis along with our consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto at April 29, 2022 and April 30, 2021 and for fiscal years 2022, 2021, and 2020, which are presented within "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Amounts reported in millions within this annual report are computed based on the amounts in thousands, and therefore, the sum of the components may not equal the total amount reported in millions due to rounding. Additionally, certain columns and rows within tables may not sum due to rounding. Financial Trends Throughout this Management’s Discussion and Analysis, we present certain financial measures that facilitate management's review of the operational performance of the Company and as a basis for strategic planning; however, such financial measures are not presented in our financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S.) (U.S. GAAP). These financial measures are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" and are intended to supplement, and should not be considered as superior to, financial measures presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We believe that non-GAAP financial measures provide information useful to investors in understanding the Company's underlying operational performance and trends and may facilitate comparisons with the performance of other companies in the medical technologies industry. As presented in the GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations section below, our non-GAAP financial measures exclude the impact of certain charges or benefits that contribute to or reduce earnings and that may affect financial trends and include certain charges or benefits that result from transactions or events that we believe may or may not recur with similar materiality or impact to our operations in future periods (Non-GAAP Adjustments). In the event there is a Non-GAAP Adjustment recognized in our operating results, the tax cost or benefit attributable to that item is separately calculated and reported. Because the effective rate can be significantly impacted by the Non-GAAP Adjustments that take place during the period, we often refer to our tax rate using both the effective rate and the non-GAAP nominal tax rate (Non-GAAP Nominal Tax Rate). The Non-GAAP Nominal Tax Rate is calculated as the income tax provision, adjusted for the impact of Non-GAAP Adjustments, as a percentage of income before income taxes, excluding Non-GAAP Adjustments. Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure calculated by subtracting property, plant, and equipment additions from operating cash flows. Refer to the “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations," "Income Taxes," and "Free Cash Flow" sections for reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. EXECUTIVE LEVEL OVERVIEW The global healthcare system is continuing to respond to the unprecedented challenge posed by the COVID-19 pandemic ("COVID-19" or the "pandemic"). Most of our businesses were affected by a decline in global procedural volumes during fiscal year 2021, particularly in the first and second quarters. During fiscal year 2022, the pandemic, to a lesser extent, continued to affect most of our businesses, including the most recent COVID-19 lockdown in China which began in late March. In addition to the pandemic, our business faced the impacts of healthcare system staffing shortages on procedural volumes and significant supply chain disruptions in certain businesses particularly in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2022. We cannot predict with confidence the duration and severity of the pandemic and its impact on global procedure volumes. We expect medical procedure rates may continue to vary by therapy and country and to be impacted by regional COVID-19 case volumes, vaccine and booster immunization rates, and new COVID-19 variants. Additionally, we cannot predict the impact healthcare system staffing shortages will have on procedural volumes, and the impact supply chain disruptions will have on the business. 29 The following is a summary of revenue, diluted earnings per share, and cash flow for fiscal years 2022 and 2021: GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations Starting with the quarter ended April 29, 2022, the Company will no longer adjust non-GAAP financial measures for certain license payments for, or acquisitions of, technology not approved by regulators due to recent industry guidance from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Historical non-GAAP financial measures presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K have been recast for comparability. The tables below present reconciliations of our Non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP for fiscal years 2022 and 2021. 30 (1) Associated costs include costs incurred as a direct result of the restructuring program, such as salaries for employees supporting the program and consulting expenses. (2) The charges primarily include business combination costs, changes in fair value of contingent consideration, specifically for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2021, changes in amounts accrued for certain contingent liabilities for a past acquisition. (3) We exclude unrealized and realized gains and losses on our minority investments as we do not believe that these components of income or expense have a direct correlation to our ongoing or future business operations. (4) The charges represent estimated incremental costs of complying with the new European Union medical device regulations for previously registered products and primarily include charges for contractors supporting the project and other direct third-party expenses, which are expected to be substantially complete by the end of fiscal year 2023. (5) The charges relate to the Company’s June 2021 decision to stop the distribution and sale of the Medtronic HVAD System within the Mechanical Circulatory Support Operating Unit (MCS). The charges included $515 million of non-cash impairments, primarily related to $409 million of intangible asset impairments, as well as $366 million for commitments and obligations in connection with the decision, including patient support obligations, restructuring, and other associated costs. Medtronic is committed to serving the needs of the approximately 3,500 patients currently implanted with the HVAD System. (6) The net benefit primarily relates to the deferred tax impact associated with a step up in tax basis for Swiss Cantonal purposes and a change in tax rates on deferred taxes associated with intellectual property, which are partially offset by the amortization on previously established deferred tax assets from intercompany intellectual property transactions and a charge related to a change in the Company's permanent reinvestment assertion on certain historical earnings. (7) The charges relate to the abandonment of certain intangible assets in our Neuroscience segment. (8) The charges relate to the early redemption of approximately $6.0 billion of debt. (9) The net benefit primarily relates to the finalization of an audit at the IRS Appellate level for fiscal years 2012 through 2014 and the capitalization of certain research and development costs for U.S. income tax purposes, which are partially offset by the impact of an intercompany sale of assets, and a tax basis adjustment and amortization of previously established deferred tax assets from intercompany intellectual property transactions. Free Cash Flow Free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, is calculated by subtracting additions to property, plant, and equipment from net cash provided by operating activities. Management uses this non-GAAP financial measure, in addition to U.S. GAAP financial measures, to evaluate our operating results. Free cash flow should be considered supplemental to, and not a substitute for, our reported financial results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Reconciliations between net cash provided by operating activities (the most comparable U.S. GAAP measure) and free cash flow are as follows: Refer to the Summary of Cash Flows section for drivers of the change in cash provided by operating activities. 31 NET SALES Segment and Division The charts below illustrate the percent of net sales by segment for fiscal years 2022 and 2021: The table below includes net sales by segment and division for fiscal years 2022 and 2021: 32 Segment and Market Geography The charts below illustrate the percent of net sales by market geography for fiscal years 2022 and 2021: The table below includes net sales by market geography for each of our segments for fiscal years 2022 and 2021: (1) U.S. includes the United States and U.S. territories. (2) Non-U.S. developed markets include Japan, Australia, New Zealand, Korea, Canada, and the countries of Western Europe. (3) Emerging markets include the countries of the Middle East, Africa, Latin America, Eastern Europe, and the countries of Asia that are not included in the non-U.S. developed markets, as defined above. The increase in net sales for fiscal year 2022 was primarily due to the recovery of global procedure volumes from the downturn experienced in the first and second quarters of fiscal year 2021 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The net sales increase was partially offset by supply chain challenges, particularly in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2022, as well as the impact of COVID-19 experienced in fiscal year 2022, particularly in the U.S. and China. For fiscal year 2022, currency had an unfavorable impact of $107 million on non-U.S. developed markets and a favorable impact of $33 million on emerging markets. 33 Looking ahead, a number of macro-economic and geopolitical factors could negatively impact our business, including without limitation: • The uncertain and uneven impact of COVID-19 on future procedural volumes, supply constraints including certain electronic components and semiconductors, healthcare staffing, worker absenteeism with our customers, suppliers, and in our own operations and field teams, and resulting impacts on demand for our products and therapies; • The potential impact that sanctions and other measures being imposed in response to the Russia-Ukraine conflict could have on revenue and supply chain. The financial impact of the conflict in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2022, including on accounts receivable and inventory reserves, was not material and for the fiscal year ended April 29, 2022, the business of the Company in these countries represented less than 1% of the Company's consolidated revenues and assets. Although the implications of this conflict are difficult to predict at this time, the ongoing conflict may increase pressure on the global economy and supply chains, resulting in increased future volatility risk for our business operations and performance. • Competitive product launches and pricing pressure, geographic macro-economic risks including general price inflation, rising interest rates, reimbursement challenges, impacts from changes in the mix of our product offerings, delays in product registration approvals, replacement cycle challenges, and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and • National and provincial tender pricing for certain products, particularly in China. Cardiovascular Cardiovascular products include pacemakers, insertable cardiac monitors, cardiac resynchronization therapy devices, implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICD), leads and delivery systems, electrophysiology catheters, products for the treatment of atrial fibrillation, information systems for the management of patients with Cardiac Rhythm & Heart Failure devices, products designed to reduce surgical site infections, coronary and peripheral stents and related delivery systems, balloons and related delivery systems, endovascular stent graft systems, heart valve replacement technologies, cardiac tissue ablation systems, and open heart and coronary bypass grafting surgical products. Cardiovascular also includes Care Management Services and Cath Lab Managed Services (CLMS) within the Cardiac Rhythm & Heart Failure division. Cardiovascular net sales for fiscal year 2022 were $11.4 billion, an increase of 6 percent as compared to fiscal year 2021. Currency had an unfavorable impact on net sales for fiscal year 2022 of $32 million. The net sales increase was primarily due to the recovery of global procedure volumes from the declines experienced in fiscal year 2021 along with growth from recent product launches, partially offset by global supply chain disruptions and declines in China due to recent COVID-19 lockdowns. The charts below illustrate the percent of Cardiovascular net sales by division for fiscal years 2022 and 2021: Cardiac Rhythm & Heart Failure (CRHF) net sales increased 6 percent in fiscal year 2022 as compared to fiscal year 2021. The increase was led by Cardiac Rhythm Management with growth in TYRX antibacterial envelopes, CRT-Ds, and cardiac pacing therapies due to Micra and transvenous pacemakers. Cardiac Ablation Solutions also led growth with strong sales of Arctic Front cryoablation systems. The net sales growth was partially offset by a decline of Medtronic HVAD System net sales as a result of our June 2021 decision to stop the 34 distribution and sale of the system. The net sales for the Medtronic HVAD system for fiscal year 2021 was $141 million. Structural Heart & Aortic (SHA) net sales increased 8 percent in fiscal year 2022 as compared to fiscal year 2021. The increase was led by growth in transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) net sales as a result of continued adoption of the CoreValve Evolut. Cardiac Surgery also contributed to the net increase in sales as a result of broad growth across the business, particularly from strong sales of Extra-Corporeal Life Support (ECLS) devices. These increases were partially offset by declines within Aortic caused by field corrective actions (FCA) and COVID-19 challenges. The most notable field corrective actions were for the Valiant Navion Thoracic Stent Graft System FCA issued in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2021 and the Endurant II/IIs Stent Graft Systems FCA issued in the third quarter of fiscal year 2022. Coronary & Peripheral Vascular (CPV) net sales increased 5 percent in fiscal year 2022 as compared to fiscal year 2021. The increase was led by growth in Peripheral Vascular Health driven by strong performance of the recently launched Abre venous self-expanding stent system for Deep Venous disease, as well as our superficial venous product portfolio, including the VenaSeal and ClosureFast systems. The increase was partially offset by declines in Coronary as well as Atherectomy products due to impacts of COVID-19 on procedural volumes. In addition to the macro-economic and geopolitical factors described in the Executive Level Overview, looking ahead, we expect Cardiovascular could be affected by the following: • Continued growth of our Micra transcatheter pacing system. The Micra AV launched in Japan in November 2021 and received approval in China in May 2022. Micra AV expands the Micra target population from 15 percent to 45 percent of pacemaker patients. • Continued acceptance and growth from the Azure XT and S SureScan pacing systems. Azure pacemakers feature Medtronic-exclusive BlueSync technology, which enables automatic, secure wireless remote monitoring with increased device longevity. • Growth of the Cobalt and Crome portfolio of ICDs and CRT-Ds. • Continued acceptance and expansion of the Claria MRI CRT-D system with AdaptivCRT and compatibility with TriageHF technology. • Continued acceptance and expansion of the LINQ II cardiac monitor. Supply for the LINQ II cardiac monitor is improving as we continue to ramp our wafer scale manufacturing. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2022, we launched two AccuRhythm AI algorithms on the LINQ II platform to significantly reduce false positive alerts for Atrial Fibrillation and Pause while retaining sensitivity for true positive detection, and reduce clinic workload and burden. • Growth of the CRT-P quadripolar pacing system. • Continued growth, adoption, and utilization of the TYRX Envelope for implantable devices. • Continued acceptance and market expansion of Arctic Front cryoablation for treatment of atrial fibrillation. In June 2021, the Arctic Front cryoablation system received a first line therapy designation from the U.S. FDA for the treatment of atrial fibrillation. • Continued acceptance and growth of the self-expanding CoreValve Evolut transcatheter aortic valve replacement platform into intermediate risk indication globally and for the treatment of patients determined to be at low risk with surgery. • Continued expansion and training of field support to increase coverage in the U.S. centers performing TAVR procedures. • Continued acceptance and growth from Evolut PRO, which provides industry-leading hemodynamics, reliable delivery, enhanced durability versus SAVR procedures at 5 years, and advanced sealing with an excellent safety profile. In August 2021, the U.S. FDA approved the Evolut FX TAVR, a system enhancement designed to improve the overall procedural experience through enhancements in deliverability, implant visibility and deployment stability. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2022, Evolut PRO received NMPA approval within China. • Continued acceptance and growth from the VenaSeal Closure System in the U.S. The VenaSeal Closure System is a unique non-thermal solution to address superficial venous disease that provides improved patient comfort, reduces the recovery time, and eliminates the risk of thermal nerve injury. • Continued acceptance and growth of the Abre venous self-expanding stent system in the U.S. as well as pressure from competitors re-entering the market. Abre is designed for the unique challenges of venous disease. It offers easy deployment, to let physicians focus on their patient, and delivers demonstrated endurance, to give patients freedom of movement. • Our voluntary recall of the Valiant Navion Thoracic Stent Graft System and our ability to ramp production of our previous generation product, the Valiant Captivia Thoracic Stent Graft System. We are currently ramping production of the Valiant Captivia Thoracic Stent Graft System and plan to reach full production capacity in the first quarter of fiscal year 2023. 35 • Our June 2021 decision to stop the distribution and sale of the Medtronic HVAD System. • Our ability to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval of and commercialize the products within our pipeline, which include, but are not limited to, the Symplicity Spyral Multi-Electrode Renal Denervation Catheter, Pulse Field Ablation, a novel energy source that is non-thermal, Aurora Extravascular ICD and transcatheter mitral and tricuspid therapy products led by our Intrepid system. Medical Surgical Medical Surgical’s products span the entire continuum of patient care from diagnosis to recovery, with a focus on diseases of the gastrointestinal tract, lungs, pelvic region, kidneys, obesity, and preventable complications. The products include those for advanced and general surgical products, surgical stapling devices, vessel sealing instruments, wound closure, electrosurgery products, hernia mechanical devices, mesh implants, advanced ablation, interventional lung, ventilators, airway products, renal care products, and sensors and monitors for pulse oximetry, capnography, level of consciousness and cerebral oximetry. Medical Surgical’s net sales for fiscal year 2022 were $9.1 billion, an increase of 5 percent as compared to fiscal year 2021. Currency had an unfavorable impact on net sales of $44 million for fiscal year 2022. The net sales increase was primarily due to the recovery of global procedure volumes from the declines experienced in fiscal year 2021 partially offset by global supply chain disruptions and declines in China due to recent COVID-19 lockdowns. The charts below illustrate the percent of Medical Surgical net sales by division for fiscal years 2022 and 2021: Surgical Innovations (SI) net sales for fiscal year 2022 increased 11 percent as compared to fiscal year 2021. Net sales growth was led by Advanced Surgical instruments, driven by the continued adoption of the Company's LigaSure, Sonicision, and Tri-Staple technologies, and Hernia and Wound Management. The increase was partially offset by declines in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2022 resulting from global supply chain challenges, including resins, semiconductors, and packaging trays, which impacted energy and stapling products. Respiratory, Gastrointestinal, & Renal (RGR) net sales for fiscal year 2022 decreased 7 percent as compared to fiscal year 2021. RGR net sales declines were largely due to declines in ventilator demands when compared fiscal year 2021 as demand returned to pre-pandemic levels in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2022. These declines were partially offset by growth in Patient Monitoring, led by the Nellcor pulse oximetry sensors and the Bispectral Index (BIS) sensors, Gastrointestinal, driven by the esophageal product portfolio, as well as growth in Renal Care Solutions. In addition to the macro-economic and geopolitical factors described in the Executive Level Overview, looking ahead we expect Medical Surgical could be affected by the following: • Continued acceptance and future growth of Open-to-MIS techniques and tools supported by our efforts to transition open surgery to MIS (minimally invasive surgery). The Open-to-MIS initiative focuses on furthering our presence in and working to optimize 36 open surgery globally, while capturing the market opportunity that exists in transitioning open procedures to MIS, whether through traditional MIS, or advanced technologies, including robotics. • Continued acceptance and future growth of powered stapling and energy platform. • Our ability to execute ongoing strategies in order to address the competitive pressure of reprocessing of our vessel sealing disposables and growth of surgical soft tissue robotics procedures in the U.S. • Our ability to create markets and drive products and procedures into emerging markets. We have high quality and cost-effective surgical products designed for customers in emerging markets such as the ValleyLab LS10 single channel vessel sealing generator, which is compatible with our line of LigaSure instruments and designed for simplified use and affordability. • Continued elevation of the standard of care for respiratory compromise, a progressive condition impacting a patient’s ability to breathe effectively, which leverages our market leading MicroStream capnography technology. • Continued acceptance and growth in patient monitoring, airway, and ventilation management. Key products in this area include the Puritan Bennett 980 ventilator, Microstream Capnography, Nellcor pulse oximetry system with OxiMax technology, Shiley tracheostomy and endotracheal tubes, McGRATH MAC video laryngoscopes, SonarMed Airway Monitoring System for the NICU, and the Nellcor Oxysoft pulse oximetry system for neonatal and adult critical care patients, which received U.S. FDA clearance during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2022. • Continued and future acceptance of less invasive standards of care in Gastrointestinal and Hepatology products, including the areas of GI Diagnostic and Therapeutic product lines. Recently launched products include the PillCam COLON capsule endoscopy, the Barrx platform through ablation with the Barrx 360 Express catheter, Endoflip imaging systems, Bravo Calibration-free reflux testing, and the Emprint ablation system with Thermosphere Technology, which maintains predictable spherical ablation zones throughout procedures reducing procedure time and cost. • Continued and future acceptance of Interventional Lung Solutions. Products include our Illumisite navigation platform, combined with our portfolio of biopsy tools including the Arcpoint pulmonary needle, and to access lesions outside the airway, the CrossCountry transbronchial access tool. This comprehensive portfolio gives the power to display position and access lung nodules in the periphery of the lungs, in a minimally invasive approach to accessing difficult-to-reach areas of the lung, which may aid in the diagnosis of lung cancer. • Expanding the use of less invasive treatments and furthering our commitment to improving options for women with abnormal uterine bleeding. Our expanded and strengthened surgical offerings are expected to complement our global gynecology business. • Continued future growth internationally for the Hugo robotic assisted surgery (RAS) system for urologic, bariatric, gynecologic, and general surgery procedures as well as for our easy-to-access Touch Surgery Enterprise surgical video system. The Hugo RAS system, which received CE Mark in October 2021 as well as secured additional regulatory approvals in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal year 2022, is designed to help reduce unwanted variability, improve patient outcomes, and by extension, lower per procedure cost. • The pending contribution of our Renal Care Solutions business as a result of the May 25, 2022 definitive agreement with DaVita Inc. Refer to the “Subsequent Events” section of this Management’s Discussion and Analysis for additional information on the divestiture. • Our ability to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval of and commercialize the products within our pipeline, which include, but are not limited to, our Hugo RAS system in the U.S., our NextGen McGrath MAC video laryngoscopes, Signia power stapling devices, and our Ligasure and Sonicision vessel sealing devices. Neuroscience Neuroscience's products include various spinal implants, bone graft substitutes, biologic products, image-guided surgery and intra-operative imaging systems, robotic guidance systems used in the robot-assisted spine procedures, and systems that incorporate advanced energy surgical instruments. Neuroscience's products also focus on the treatment of overactive bladder, urinary retention, fecal incontinence, as well as products to treat ear, nose, and throat (ENT), and therapies to treat the diseases of the vasculature in and around the brain, including coils, neurovascular stents and flow diversion products. Neuroscience also manufactures products related to implantable neurostimulation therapies and drug delivery systems for the treatment of chronic pain, movement disorders, and epilepsy. Neuroscience’s net sales for fiscal year 2022 were $8.8 billion, an increase of 7 percent as compared to fiscal year 2021. Currency had a favorable impact on net sales for fiscal year 2022 of $3 million. The net sales increase was primarily due to the recovery of global procedure volumes from the declines experienced in fiscal year 2021, partially offset by global supply chain disruptions and declines in China due to COVID-19 lockdowns and reduced sales in advance of potential national volume-based pricing (VBP) tenders. 37 The graphs below illustrate the percent of Neuroscience net sales by division for fiscal years 2022 and 2021: Cranial & Spinal Technologies (CST) net sales for fiscal year 2022 increased 4 percent as compared to fiscal year 2021. Net sales growth was primarily driven by Neurosurgery with strong sales of the Midas Rex powered surgical instruments and StealthStation Navigation and O-arm Imaging System. Growth in CST also occurred in Spine and Biologics due to the recovery of global procedural volumes in the U.S., Japan, and Western Europe compared to the prior fiscal year. This growth was partially offset by recent reduced sales in China in advance of potential national VBP tender in Spine. Specialty Therapies (Specialty) net sales for fiscal year 2022 increased 12 percent as compared to fiscal year 2021. Net sales growth was primarily driven by strength in Pelvic Health, ENT, and Neurovascular. Pelvic Health's growth was led by sales of the recently launched InterStim Micro neurostimulator and SureScan MRI leads. ENT growth was driven by the sales of StealthStation ENT Navigation System despite continued supply constraints in disposables, which are recovering. Neurovascular's growth was led by sales of flow diversion, hemorrhagic stroke, and liquid embolic products. Neuromodulation (NM) net sales for fiscal year 2022 increased 8 percent as compared to fiscal year 2021. Sales growth occurred in both Pain Therapies and Brain Modulation and reflected a recovery in procedural volumes. Net sales growth was driven by strong performance of the Percept PC deep brain stimulation (DBS) device with BrainSense technology in Brain Modulation. In addition to the macro-economic and geopolitical factors described in the Executive Level Overview, looking ahead we expect Neuroscience could be affected by the following: • Continued growth from Enabling Technologies, including StealthStation Navigation and O-arm Imaging Systems, Midas Rex Powered Surgical Instruments, and ENT Navigation and Power Systems, as well as acceptance of the Stealth Autoguide cranial robotic guidance platform. • Continued sales of Mazor robotic units and associated market adoption of robot-assisted spine procedures, including the Mazor X Stealth, our integrated robotics and navigation platform. • Continued growth from spine titanium interbody implants. • Continued adoption of our integrated solutions through the Surgical Synergy strategy, which integrates our spinal implants with enabling technologies such as imaging, navigation, power instruments, nerve monitoring, and Mazor robotics, as well as AI-driven surgical planning, personalized spinal implants, and robot-assisted surgery due to Medicrea technologies, acquired in fiscal year 2021. • Market acceptance and continued global adoption of innovative new spine products and procedural solutions within our CST division such as our Infinity OCT System and Prestige LP cervical disc system. 38 • Growth in the broader vertebral compression fracture (VCF) and adjacent markets as we continue to pursue the development of other therapies to treat more patients with VCF, including continued success of both the Kyphon V vertebroplasty system and the Osteocool RF Spinal Tumor ablation system. • Continued acceptance and growth of our ENT and Pelvic Health therapies within our Specialty Therapies division, including our InterStim therapy with InterStim II, InterStim Micro and InterStim X neurostimulators for the treatment of the symptoms of overactive bladder, urinary retention, and bowel incontinence, and capital equipment sales of the Stealth Station ENT surgical navigation system and intraoperative NIM nerve monitoring system. • Continued acceptance and growth of the Solitaire FR revascularization device for treatment of acute ischemic stroke and the Pipeline Embolization Devices, endovascular treatments for large or giant wide-necked brain aneurysms. • Continued acceptance of our React Catheter and Riptide aspiration system, along with our next-generation Solitaire revascularization device. • Market acceptance and continued global adoption of our Intellis spinal cord stimulator, DTM proprietary waveform, Evolve workflow algorithm, and Snapshot reporting to treat chronic pain in major markets around the world. • Continued acceptance and growth of our Percept PC DBS device with BrainSense technology, including its treatment of Parkinson's Disease, epilepsy, and other movement disorders. • Market acceptance and growth from SCS therapy for treating Diabetic Peripheral Neuropathy (DPN) on Intellis rechargeable neurostimulator and Vanta recharge-free neurostimulator which received U.S. FDA approval in January 2022. • Ongoing obligations under the U.S. FDA consent decree entered in April 2015 relating to the SynchroMed drug infusion system and the Neuromodulation quality system. The U.S. FDA lifted its distribution requirements on our implantable drug pump in October 2017 and its warning letter in November 2017. • Our ability to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval of and commercialize the products within our pipeline, which include, but are not limited to, our closed-loop Percept PC and RC devices with adaptive DBS (aDBS), our hemorrhagic stroke intravascular device, and our next-generation spine enabling technologies. Diabetes Diabetes' products include insulin pumps, continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) systems, consumables, and smart insulin pen systems. Diabetes' sales for fiscal year 2022 were $2.3 billion, a decrease of 3 percent as compared to fiscal year 2021. Currency had an unfavorable impact on net sales for fiscal year 2022 of $2 million. Diabetes' net sales decline for fiscal year 2022 was primarily attributable to declines in the U.S. partially offset by growth in the MiniMed 780G insulin pump system and integrated CGM in the international markets. In addition to the macro-economic and geopolitical factors described in the Executive Level Overview, looking ahead we expect Diabetes could be affected by the following: • Patient demand for the MiniMed 770G insulin pump system, which launched in the U.S. in November 2020 and in Japan in January 2022. The system is powered by SmartGuard technology and features the added benefits of smartphone connectivity and an expanded age indication to children as young as age two. • Continued growth internationally for the MiniMed 780G insulin pump system. The MiniMed 780G system was approved in the E.U. in June 2020 and has launched in over 40 countries on four continents outside the U.S. The global adoption of sensor-augmented insulin pump systems has resulted in strong sensor attachment rates. • Continued acceptance and growth of the Guardian Connect CGM system which displays glucose information directly to a smartphone to help ensure patients have access to their glucose levels seamlessly and discretely. The Guardian Connect CGM system is available on both Apple iOS and Android devices. • Strengthening our position in the diabetes market as a result of the September 2020 acquisition of Companion Medical. Companion Medical offered a U.S. FDA cleared InPen smart pen system that combines the freedom of a reusable Bluetooth pen with the intelligence of an intuitive mobile application that helps users administer the appropriate insulin dose. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2021, we integrated our CGM data into the InPen application, which allows users to have their Medtronic CGM readings in real-time alongside insulin dose information, all in one view. • Continued pump and CGM competition in an expanding global market. • Changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs, along with additional payor coverage on insulin pumps. 39 • Resolution of findings contained in a December 2021 U.S. FDA warning letter relating to the MiniMed 600 series insulin pump and a remote controller device for MiniMed 508 and Paradigm pumps. We are currently working with the U.S. FDA to resolve the findings. The existence of the warning letter may limit our ability to launch certain new Diabetes products in the U.S. prior to resolution of the findings. • Our ability to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval of and commercialize the products within our pipeline, which include, but are not limited to, our MiniMed 780G insulin pump and the Guardian 4 sensor, which have been submitted to the U.S. FDA. COSTS AND EXPENSES The following is a summary of cost of products sold, research and development, and selling, general, and administrative expenses as a percent of net sales: Cost of Products Sold We continue to focus on reducing our costs of production through supplier management, manufacturing improvements, and optimizing our manufacturing network. Cost of products sold for fiscal year 2022 was $10.1 billion as compared to $10.5 billion for fiscal year 2021. The decrease in cost of products sold as a percentage of net sales was largely due to the conditions of the pandemic during fiscal year 2021, which resulted in recognizing a portion of our fixed overhead costs as period expenses, increases in our reserves in our excess and obsolete inventory, as well as negative impact from mix, as products in higher demand had lower gross margins. The decrease was also attributable to charges from field correction actions in the prior year. Fiscal year 2022 included $58 million of inventory write-downs associated with our June 2021 decision to stop the distribution and sale of Medtronic's HVAD System (MCS charges). Looking forward, our cost of products sold likely will be further negatively impacted by inflation and higher labor and direct material costs. Research and Development Expense We remain committed to deliver the best possible experiences for every patient, physician, and caregiver we serve; to create technologies that expand what’s possible across the entire human body to transform lives; to turn data and insights into real action to serve real patient needs, dramatically improving care; and to expand healthcare access and deliver positive outcomes that go far beyond our products. Research and development expense for fiscal year 2022 was $2.7 billion as compared to $2.5 billion for fiscal year 2021. Fiscal year 2022 included $101 million of acquisitions of, and license payments for, technology not approved by regulators, primarily in our Diabetes segment. Selling, General, and Administrative Expense Our goal is to continue to leverage selling, general, and administrative expense initiatives. Selling, general, and administrative expense primarily consists of salaries and wages, other administrative costs, such as professional fees and marketing expenses, and certain acquisition and restructuring expenses. Selling, general, and administrative expense for fiscal year 2022 was $10.3 billion as compared to $10.1 billion for fiscal year 2021. The decrease in selling, general, and administrative expense as a percentage of net sales was primarily driven by net sales growth as a result of the recovery of procedural volumes partially offset by increases in employee travel as compared to the corresponding period in the prior year when travel was limited. 40 The following is a summary of other costs and expenses (income): Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization of intangible assets includes the amortization expense of our definite-lived intangible assets, consisting of purchased patents, trademarks, tradenames, customer relationships, purchased technology, and other intangible assets. Restructuring Charges, Net Enterprise Excellence In the third quarter of fiscal year 2018, we announced a multi-year global Enterprise Excellence Program designed to drive long-term business growth and sustainable efficiency. Further program details are described in Note 4 of the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Since inception, the Company has incurred pre-tax exit and disposal costs and other costs, across all segments, of $1.6 billion in connection with the Enterprise Excellence program. In total, the Company estimates it will recognize approximately $1.8 billion of exit and disposal costs and other costs related to the Enterprise Excellence program by the end of fiscal year 2023. For fiscal years 2022 and 2021, the Company recognized net charges of $259 million and $349 million, respectively, including $31 million and $52 million, respectively within restructuring charges, net in the consolidated statements of income which were primarily comprised of employee termination benefits. For fiscal years 2022 and 2021, charges also included costs incurred as a direct result of the restructuring program, such as salaries for employees supporting the program and consulting, including $116 million and $128 million, respectively, recognized within cost of products sold, and $112 million and $169 million, respectively, recognized within selling, general, and administrative expense in the consolidated statements of income. Simplification In the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, we initiated our Simplification restructuring program designed to make the Company a more nimble and competitive organization. Further program details are described in Note 4 of the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Since inception, the Company has incurred pre-tax exit and disposal costs and other costs, across all segments, of $349 million in connection with the Simplification program. In total, the Company estimates it will recognize approximately $450 million of exit and disposal costs and other costs related to the Simplification program by the end of fiscal year 2023. For fiscal years 2022 and 2021, the Company recognized net charges of $82 million and $268 million, respectively, including $35 million and $241 million, respectively, within restructuring charges, net in the consolidated statements of income which were primarily comprised of employee termination benefits. For fiscal years 2022 and 2021, charges also included costs incurred as a direct result of the restructuring program, such as salaries for employees supporting the program and consulting, including $45 million and $27 million, respectively, recognized within selling, general, and administrative expense in the consolidated statements of income. The net charges for fiscal year 2021 included $97 million of incremental defined benefit pension and post-retirement related expenses for employees that accepted voluntary early retirement packages. Certain Litigation Charges We classify specified certain litigation charges and gains related to significant legal matters as certain litigation charges in the consolidated statements of income. For additional information, refer to Note 18 of the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other Operating Expense, Net Other operating expense, net primarily includes royalty income and expense, currency remeasurement and derivative gains and losses, Puerto Rico excise taxes, changes in the fair value of contingent consideration, changes in amounts accrued for certain contingent liabilities for a past acquisition, MCS charges, impairment charges, and income from funded research and development arrangements. The increase in other operating expense, net was primarily driven by MCS charges recorded in fiscal year 2022. The charges of $823 million primarily included $409 million of intangible asset impairments and $366 million for commitments and obligations, including 41 customer support obligations, restructuring, and other associated costs. The increase was partially offset by changes in fair value of contingent consideration, which resulted in $103 million of income for fiscal year 2022 as compared to $36 million of expense in fiscal year 2021. The net currency impact of remeasurement expense and our hedging programs also partially offset the increase with $70 million of income in fiscal year 2022 and $47 million of expense in fiscal year 2021. Finally, contributing to the change was a $132 million gain related to amounts accrued for certain contingent liabilities for a past acquisition and $76 million of impairment charges related to the abandonment of certain intangible assets, both in fiscal year 2021. Additional information regarding the MCS charges is described in Note 4 of the consolidated financial statements in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other Non-Operating Income, Net Other non-operating income, net includes the non-service component of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit cost, investment gains and losses, and interest income. The decrease in other non-operating income, net for fiscal year 2022 is driven by our equity method and minority investments portfolio offset by an increase in income from the non-service component of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit cost. Gains on equity method and minority investments were $30 million and $61 million for fiscal year 2022 and 2021, respectively, and income related to the non-service component of net periodic pension and postretirement benefits were $107 million and $86 million, respectively. Interest Expense Interest expense includes interest incurred on our outstanding borrowings, amortization of debt issuance costs and debt premiums or discounts, amortization of gains or losses on terminated or de-designated interest rate derivative instruments, and charges recognized in connection with the tender and early redemption of senior notes. The decrease in interest expense for fiscal year 2022 was primarily due to the $308 million charge incurred as a result of the early redemption of approximately $6.0 billion of debt during fiscal year 2021. INCOME TAXES Many of the countries we operate in have statutory tax rates lower than our U.S. statutory rate, thereby resulting in an overall effective tax rate less than the U.S. statutory rate of 21.0 percent. A significant portion of our earnings are generated from operations in Puerto Rico, Switzerland, and Ireland. The statutory tax rates for these jurisdictions range from 12.5 percent to 37.5 percent. Our earnings in Puerto Rico are subject to certain tax incentive grants which provide for tax rates lower than the country’s statutory tax rates. Unless our tax incentive grants are extended, they will expire between fiscal years 2023 and 2034. The tax incentive grants, which expired during fiscal year 2022, did not have a material impact on our financial results. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. Our effective tax rate for fiscal year 2022 was 8.3 percent, as compared to 6.8 percent in fiscal year 2021. Our Non-GAAP Nominal Tax Rate for fiscal year 2022 was 12.6 percent, as compared to 11.8 percent in fiscal year 2021. The increase in both the effective tax rate and the Non-GAAP Nominal Tax Rate was primarily due to year-over-year changes in operational results by jurisdiction. During fiscal year 2022, we recognized $89 million of operational tax benefits. The operational tax benefits included a $46 million benefit from excess tax benefits associated with stock-based compensation, and a $43 million net benefit associated with the resolution of certain income tax audits, finalization of certain tax returns, changes to uncertain tax position reserves, and changes to certain deferred income tax balances. During fiscal year 2021, we recognized $51 million of operational tax benefits, which included a $46 million benefit from excess tax benefits associated with stock-based compensation. An increase in our Non-GAAP Nominal Tax Rate of one percent would result in an additional income tax provision for fiscal years 2022 and 2021 of approximately $86 million and $68 million, respectively. 42 Certain Tax Adjustments During fiscal year 2022, the net benefit from certain tax adjustments of $50 million, recognized in income tax provision (benefit) in the consolidated statement of income, included the following: • A benefit of $82 million associated with a step up in tax basis for Swiss Cantonal purposes. • A benefit of $82 million related to a change in tax rates on intangible assets. • A cost of $47 million associated with the amortization of the previously established deferred tax assets from intercompany intellectual property transactions. • A cost of $41 million associated with a change in the Company’s permanent reinvestment assertion on certain historical earnings. • A net cost of $26 million primarily associated with an intercompany sale of assets. During fiscal year 2021, the net benefit from certain tax adjustments of $41 million, recognized in income tax provision (benefit) in the consolidated statement of income, included the following: • A net benefit of $106 million associated with the resolution of an audit at the IRS Appellate level for fiscal years 2012, 2013, and 2014. The issues resolved relate to the utilization of certain net operating losses and the allocation of income between Medtronic, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiary operating in Puerto Rico for businesses that are not the subject of the U.S. Tax Court Case for fiscal years 2005 and 2006. • A net cost of $73 million related to a tax basis adjustment of previously established deferred tax assets from intercompany intellectual property transactions. The cumulative amount of deferred tax benefit previously recognized from intercompany intellectual property transactions and recorded as Certain Tax Adjustments is $1.5 billion. The corresponding deferred tax assets will be amortized over a period of approximately 20 years. • A cost of $50 million associated with the amortization of the previously established deferred tax assets from intercompany intellectual property transactions. • A net cost of $25 million associated with an internal restructuring and intercompany sale of assets. • A benefit of $83 million related to the capitalization of certain research and development costs for U.S. income tax purposes and the establishment of a deferred tax asset at the U.S. federal statutory tax rate. Certain tax adjustments will affect the comparability of our operating results between periods. Therefore, we consider these Non-GAAP Adjustments. Refer to the "Executive Level Overview" section of this Management's Discussion and Analysis for further discussion of these adjustments. 43 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES We are currently in a strong financial position, and we believe our balance sheet and liquidity as of April 29, 2022 provide us with flexibility, and our cash, cash equivalents, and current investments, along with our credit facility and related commercial paper programs will satisfy our foreseeable operating needs. Our liquidity and capital structure are evaluated regularly within the context of our annual operating and strategic planning processes. We consider the liquidity necessary to fund our operations, which includes working capital needs, investments in research and development, property, plant, and equipment, and other operating costs. We also consider capital allocation alternatives that balance returning value to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases, satisfying maturing debt, and acquiring businesses and technology. Summary of Cash Flows The following is a summary of cash provided by (used in) operating, investing, and financing activities, the effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents, and the net change in cash and cash equivalents: Operating Activities The $1.1 billion increase in net cash provided was primarily driven by an increase in cash collected from customers along with a decrease in cash paid for income taxes. The increase in net cash provided was partially offset by an increase in cash paid to employees. The increase in cash collected from customers was primarily related to COVID-19 driving decreased sales in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020 and first quarter of fiscal year 2021. The decrease in cash paid for income taxes was primarily due to increased estimated federal tax payments and tax payments associated with IRS audit settlements in fiscal year 2021. Cash paid to employees increased due to higher annual incentive plan payouts compared to the prior fiscal year. Investing Activities The $1.2 billion decrease in net cash used was primarily attributable to a decrease in cash paid for acquisitions of $903 million, as well as a decrease of net purchases of investments of $273 million as compared to fiscal year 2021. Financing Activities The $1.2 billion increase in net cash used was largely the result of the increase of share repurchases of $1.9 billion. The increase in net cash used was offset by a decrease in short-term borrowings of $311 million. For fiscal year 2021, financing cash flows were impacted by the Mizuho Bank term loan under which we borrowed ¥300 billion in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, which was subsequently repaid in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2021. Fiscal year 2021 financing cash flows were also impacted by the issuance of $7.2 billion of Euro-denominated senior notes offset by the early redemption of $6.0 billion of senior notes for $6.3 billion of total consideration, and repayment of an additional $911 million of Euro-denominated senior notes. For more information on the Mizuho Bank term loan, and issuances and redemptions of senior notes, refer to Note 6 of the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Debt and Capital Our capital structure consists of equity and interest-bearing debt. We primarily utilize unsecured senior debt obligations to meet our financing needs and, to a lesser extent, bank borrowings. From time to time, we may repurchase our outstanding debt obligations in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions. Total debt at April 29, 2022 was $24.1 billion, as compared to $26.4 billion at April 30, 2021. The decrease in total debt was driven by fluctuations in exchange rates as it pertains to our Euro-denominated senior notes. Subsequent to fiscal year 2022, on May 2, 2022, we entered into a term loan agreement (Fiscal 2023 Loan Agreement) with Mizuho Bank, Ltd. for an aggregate principal amount of up to ¥300 billion with a term of 364 days. In May and June 2022, Medtronic Luxco borrowed an aggregate of ¥297 billion, or approximately $2.3 billion, of the term loan, under the Fiscal 2023 Loan Agreement. The Company used the net proceeds of the borrowings to fund the early redemption of $1.9 billion of Medtronic Inc. Senior Notes for $1.9 billion of total consideration, and $368 million of Medtronic Luxco Senior Notes for $376 million of total consideration. The Company will recognize a total loss on debt extinguishment of $53 million in the quarter ended July 29, 2022, which primarily includes cash premiums and accelerated amortization of deferred financing costs and debt discounts and premiums. The loss will be recognized in interest expense in the consolidated statements of income. 44 We repurchase our ordinary shares on occasion as part of our focus on returning value to our shareholders. In March 2019, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of $6.0 billion of the Company's ordinary shares. There is no specific time period associated with these repurchase authorizations. During fiscal years 2022 and 2021, we repurchased a total of 22 million and 4 million shares, respectively, under these programs at an average price of $113.11 and $126.80, respectively. At April 29, 2022, we had approximately $3.0 billion remaining under the share repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors. For more information on credit arrangements, see Note 6 of the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Liquidity Our liquidity sources at April 29, 2022 included $3.7 billion of cash and cash equivalents and $6.9 billion of current investments. Additionally, we maintain commercial paper programs and a Credit Facility. Our investments primarily include available-for-sale debt securities, including U.S. and non-U.S. government and agency securities, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed securities, certificates of deposit, and other asset-backed securities. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding fair value measurements. We maintain multicurrency commercial paper programs for short-term financing, which allow us to issue unsecured commercial paper notes on a private placement basis up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of $3.5 billion. At both April 29, 2022 and April 30, 2021, we had no commercial paper outstanding. The issuance of commercial paper reduces the amount of credit available under our existing line of credit, as explained below. We also have a $3.5 billion five-year syndicated credit facility (Credit Facility), which expires in December 2026. At each anniversary date of the Credit Facility, we can request a one-year extension of the maturity date. The Credit Facility provides backup funding for the commercial paper programs and may also be used for general corporate purposes. The Credit Facility provides us with the ability to increase our borrowing capacity by an additional $1.0 billion at any time during the term of the agreement. At April 29, 2022 and April 30, 2021, no amounts were outstanding under the Credit Facility. Interest rates on advances of our Credit Facility are determined by a pricing matrix based on our long-term debt ratings assigned by Standard & Poor's Ratings Services (S&P) and Moody's Investors Service (Moody’s). Facility fees are payable on the Credit Facility and are determined in the same manner as the interest rates. We are in compliance with all covenants related to the Credit Facility. The following table is a summary of our S&P and Moody's long-term debt ratings and short-term debt ratings: (1)    Agency ratings are subject to change, and there may be no assurance that an agency will continue to provide ratings and/or maintain its current ratings. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating agency, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. S&P and Moody's long-term debt ratings and short-term debt ratings at April 29, 2022 were unchanged as compared to the ratings at April 30, 2021. We do not expect the S&P and Moody's ratings to have a significant impact on our liquidity or future flexibility to access additional liquidity given our balance sheet, Credit Facility, and related commercial paper programs. 45 Contractual Obligations and Cash Requirements We have future contractual obligations and other minimum commercial commitments that are entered into in the normal course of business, some of which are recorded in our consolidated balance sheet. We believe our off-balance sheet arrangements do not have a material current or anticipated future effect on our consolidated earnings, financial position, and/or cash flows. Presented below is a summary of our off-balance sheet contractual obligations and other minimum commercial commitments at April 29, 2022, as well as long-term contractual obligations reflected in the balance sheet at April 29, 2022. (1) Includes commitments related to the funding of minority investments, estimated milestone payments, and royalty obligations. While it is not certain if and/or when payments will be made, the maturity dates included in the table reflect our best estimates. (2) Includes the contractual interest payments on our outstanding debt and excludes the impacts of debt premium and discount amortization. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on our debt agreements. (3) Includes inventory purchase commitments, research and development, and other arrangements that are legally binding and specify minimum purchase quantities or spending amounts. These purchase commitments do not exceed our projected requirements and are in the normal course of business. Excludes open purchase orders with a remaining term of less than one year. (4) Excludes defined benefit plan obligations, guarantee obligations, uncertain tax positions, non-current tax liabilities, and litigation settlements for which we cannot make a reliable estimate of the period of cash settlement. For further information, see Notes 13, 15, and 18 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. (5) Includes the current and non-current portion of our Senior Notes and bank borrowings. Excludes debt premium and discount, unamortized gains from terminated interest rate swap agreements, and commercial paper. See Notes 6 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on our debt agreements and interest rate swap agreements, respectively. (6) Includes the fair value of our current and non-current portions of contingent consideration. While it is not certain if and/or when payments will be made, the maturity dates included in this table reflect our best estimates. (7) Represents the tax obligations associated with the transition tax that resulted from U.S. Tax Reform. The transition tax will be paid over an eight-year period and will not accrue interest. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. In the normal course of business, we periodically enter into agreements that require us to indemnify customers or suppliers for specific risks, such as claims for injury or property damage arising as a result of our products or the negligence of our personnel or claims alleging that our products infringe third-party patents or other intellectual property. Our maximum exposure under these indemnification provisions is unable to be estimated, and we have not accrued any liabilities within our consolidated financial statements or included any indemnification provisions in the table above. Historically, we have not experienced significant losses on these types of indemnification agreements. Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K provides information regarding amounts we have accrued related to legal matters. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we record a liability in our consolidated financial statements for these matters when a loss is known or considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Actual settlements may be different than estimated and could have a material effect on our consolidated earnings, financial position, and/or cash flows. 46 We record tax liabilities in our consolidated financial statements for amounts that we expect to repatriate from subsidiaries (to the extent the repatriation would be subject to tax); however, no tax liabilities are recorded for amounts we consider to be permanently reinvested. We expect to have access to the majority of our cash flows in the future. In addition, we continue to evaluate our legal entity structure supporting our business operations, and to the extent such evaluation results in a change to our overall business structure, we may be required to accrue for additional tax obligations. Beyond the contractual obligations and other minimum commercial commitments outlined above, we have recurring cash requirements arising from the normal operation of our business that include capital expenditures, research and developments costs, and other operational costs. We believe our balance sheet and liquidity provide us with flexibility, and our cash, cash equivalents, current investments, Credit Facility and related commercial paper programs as well as our ability to generate operating cash flows will satisfy our current and future contractual obligations and cash requirements. We regularly review our capital needs and consider various investing and financing alternatives to support our requirements. ACQUISITIONS Affera, Inc. Pending Acquisition On January 10, 2022, Medtronic and Affera, Inc. (Affera) entered into a definitive agreement in which Medtronic will acquire Affera for $925 million, including up to $250 million of contingent consideration related to certain technical and regulatory milestones. The acquisition is pending clearance of anti-trust filings and other closing conditions. Intersect ENT Acquisition Subsequent to fiscal year 2022, on May 13, 2022, the Company acquired Intersect ENT. Total consideration for the transaction was approximately $1.2 billion to acquire all outstanding shares of Intersect ENT for $28.25 per share. Additional information regarding acquisitions is included in Note 3 of the consolidated financial statements in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS On May 25, 2022, the Company and DaVita Inc. (“DaVita”) entered into a definitive agreement with the intent to form a new, independent kidney care-focused medical device company (“NewCo”) with equal equity ownership. The transaction is expected to close in calendar year 2023, subject to customary regulatory approvals and closing conditions. We are contributing our entire Renal Care Solutions business (“RCS”) to NewCo. RCS is part of the Respiratory, Gastrointestinal, and Renal division in our Medical Surgical portfolio, and had revenue of $325 million in fiscal year 2022. We expect to record a non-cash pre-tax impairment of long-lived assets of $60 million to $90 million in the quarter ending July 29, 2022 related to goodwill. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES We have used various accounting policies to prepare the consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our significant accounting policies are disclosed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements, in conformity with U.S. GAAP, requires us to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses. These estimates reflect our best judgment about economic and market conditions and the potential effects on the valuation and/or carrying value of assets and liabilities based upon relevant information available. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our critical accounting estimates include the following: Litigation Contingencies We are involved in a number of legal actions involving product liability, intellectual property and commercial disputes, shareholder related matters, environmental proceedings, tax disputes, and governmental proceedings and investigations. The outcomes of these legal actions are not completely within our control and may not be known for prolonged periods of time. In some actions, the enforcement agencies or private claimants seek damages, as well as other civil or criminal remedies (including injunctions barring the sale of products that are the subject of the proceeding), that could require significant expenditures or result in lost revenues or limit our ability to conduct business in the applicable jurisdictions. Estimating probable losses from our litigation and governmental proceedings is inherently difficult, particularly when the matters are in early procedural stages, with incomplete scientific facts or legal discovery; involve unsubstantiated or indeterminate claims for damages; potentially involve penalties, fines, or punitive damages; or could result in a change in business practice. The Company records a liability in the consolidated financial statements for loss contingencies when a loss is known or 47 considered probable, and the amount may be reasonably estimated. If the reasonable estimate of a known or probable loss is a range, and no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other, the minimum amount of the range is accrued. If a loss is reasonably possible but not known or probable, and may be reasonably estimated, the estimated loss or range of loss is disclosed. Our significant legal proceedings are discussed in Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Income Tax Reserves We establish reserves when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, we believe that certain positions are likely to be challenged and that we may or may not prevail. Under U.S. GAAP, if we determine that a tax position is more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, based solely on the technical merits of the position, we recognize the benefit. We measure the benefit by determining the amount that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon settlement. We presume that all tax positions will be examined by a taxing authority with full knowledge of all relevant information. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. We regularly monitor our tax positions and tax liabilities. We reevaluate the technical merits of our tax positions and recognize an uncertain tax benefit, or derecognize a previously recorded tax benefit, when there is (i) a completion of a tax audit, (ii) effective settlement of an issue, (iii) a change in applicable tax law including a tax case or legislative guidance, or (iv) the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations. Significant judgment is required in accounting for tax reserves. Although we believe that we have adequately provided for liabilities resulting from tax assessments by taxing authorities, positions taken by these tax authorities could have a material impact on our effective tax rate, consolidated earnings, financial position and/or cash flows. Valuation of Intangible Assets and Goodwill When we acquire a business, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded at their respective fair values at the acquisition date. Goodwill is the excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair value of net assets of acquired businesses. Intangible assets primarily include patents, trademarks, tradenames, customer relationships, purchased technology, and in-process research and development. Determining the fair value of intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination requires us to make significant estimates. These estimates include the amount and timing of projected future cash flows of each project or technology, the discount rate used to discount those cash flows to present value, and the assessment of the asset’s life cycle. The estimates could be impacted by legal, technical, regulatory, economic, and competitive risks. The test for impairment of goodwill requires us to make several estimates related to projected future cash flows to determine the fair value of the goodwill reporting units. Our estimates associated with the goodwill impairment test are considered critical due to the amount of goodwill recorded on our consolidated balance sheets and the judgment required in determining fair value. We assess the impairment of goodwill at the reporting unit level annually as of the first day of the third quarter and whenever an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired. We also test definite-lived intangible assets for impairment when an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate the carrying amount of the assets or asset group may be impaired. We assess the impairment of indefinite-lived intangible assets annually in the third quarter and whenever an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired. Our tests for goodwill and intangible assets are based on future cash flows that require significant judgment with respect to future revenue and expense growth rates, appropriate discount rates, asset groupings, and other assumptions and estimates. We use estimates that are consistent with the highest and best use of the assets based on a market participant's view of the assets being evaluated. Actual results may differ from our estimates due to a number of factors including, among others, changes in competitive conditions, timing of regulatory approval, results of clinical trials, changes in worldwide economic conditions, and fluctuations in currency exchange rates. NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Information regarding new accounting pronouncements is included in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 48 SUPPLEMENTAL GUARANTOR FINANCIAL INFORMATION Medtronic plc and Medtronic Global Holdings S.C.A. (Medtronic Luxco), a wholly-owned subsidiary guarantor, each have provided full and unconditional guarantees of the obligations of Medtronic, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary issuer, under the Senior Notes (Medtronic Senior Notes) and full and unconditional guarantees of the obligations of Covidien International Finance S.A. (CIFSA), a wholly-owned subsidiary issuer, under the Senior Notes (CIFSA Senior Notes). The guarantees of the CIFSA Senior Notes are in addition to the guarantees of the CIFSA Senior Notes by Covidien Ltd. and Covidien Group Holdings Ltd., both of which are wholly-owned subsidiary guarantors of the CIFSA Senior Notes. Medtronic plc and Medtronic, Inc. each have provided a full and unconditional guarantee of the obligations of Medtronic Luxco under the Senior Notes (Medtronic Luxco Senior Notes). The following is a summary of these guarantees: Guarantees of Medtronic Senior Notes • Parent Company Guarantor - Medtronic plc • Subsidiary Issuer - Medtronic, Inc. • Subsidiary Guarantor - Medtronic Luxco Guarantees of Medtronic Luxco Senior Notes • Parent Company Guarantor - Medtronic plc • Subsidiary Issuer - Medtronic Luxco • Subsidiary Guarantor - Medtronic, Inc. Guarantees of CIFSA Senior Notes • Parent Company Guarantor - Medtronic plc • Subsidiary Issuer - CIFSA • Subsidiary Guarantors - Medtronic Luxco, Covidien Ltd., and Covidien Group Holdings Ltd. (CIFSA Subsidiary Guarantors) The following tables present summarized financial information for the fiscal year ended April 29, 2022 for the obligor groups of Medtronic and Medtronic Luxco Senior Notes, and CIFSA Senior Notes. The obligor group consists of the parent company guarantor, subsidiary issuer, and subsidiary guarantors for the applicable senior notes. The summarized financial information is presented after elimination of (i) intercompany transactions and balances among the guarantors and issuers and (ii) equity in earnings from and investments in any subsidiary that is a non-guarantor or issuer. The summarized results of operations information for the fiscal year ended April 29, 2022 was as follows: The summarized balance sheet information for the fiscal year ended April 29, 2022 was as follows: (1) The Medtronic Senior Notes and Medtronic Luxco Senior Notes obligor group consists of the following entities: Medtronic plc, Medtronic Luxco, and Medtronic, Inc. Refer to the guarantee summary above for further details. (2) The CIFSA Senior Notes obligor group consists of the following entities: Medtronic plc, Medtronic Luxco, CIFSA, and CIFSA Subsidiary Guarantors. Please refer to the guarantee summary above for further details. (3) Includes receivables due from non-guarantor subsidiaries of $20.2 billion and $6.9 billion for Medtronic & Medtronic Luxco Senior Notes, and CIFSA Senior Notes, respectively. (4) Includes loans receivable due from non-guarantor subsidiaries of $6.5 billion and $8.3 billion for Medtronic & Medtronic Luxco Senior Notes, and CIFSA Senior Notes, respectively. (5) Includes payables due to non-guarantor subsidiaries of $26.4 billion and $20.2 billion for Medtronic & Medtronic Luxco Senior Notes, and CIFSA Senior Notes, respectively. (6) Includes loans payable due to non-guarantor subsidiaries of $29.0 billion and $46.4 billion for Medtronic & Medtronic Luxco Senior Notes, and CIFSA Senior Notes, respectively. 49