********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Investing in our securities involves a variety of risks and uncertainties, known and unknown, including, among others, those discussed below. Each of the following risks should be carefully considered, together with all the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and in our other filings with the SEC. Furthermore, additional risks and uncertainty not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. Our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flow and prospects could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks or uncertainties. Business and Operational Risks We operate in a highly competitive industry and we may be unable to compete effectively. We compete in both the therapeutic and diagnostic medical markets in more than 150 countries throughout the world. These markets are characterized by rapid change resulting from technological advances, innovations and scientific discoveries. In the product lines in which we compete, we face a range of competitors from large companies with multiple business lines to small, specialized manufacturers that offer a limited selection of niche products. Development by other companies of new or improved products, processes, technologies, or the introduction of reprocessed products or generic versions when our proprietary products lose their patent protection may make our existing or planned products less competitive. In addition, we face competition from providers of alternative medical therapies, such as pharmaceutical companies, including those producing GLP-1s. We believe our ability to compete depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: • product performance and reliability, • product technology and innovation, • product quality and safety, • breadth of product lines, • product support services, • supplier and supply availability and performance, • customer support, • cost-effectiveness and price, • reimbursement approval from healthcare insurance providers, and • changes to the regulatory environment. 13 Competition may increase as additional companies enter our markets or modify their existing products to compete directly with ours. In addition, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations also may conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for discovery, research, clinical development and marketing of products similar to ours. These companies and institutions compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, as well as in acquiring necessary product technologies. From time to time we have lost, and may in the future lose, market share in connection with product problems, physician advisories, safety alerts and publications about our products, which highlights the importance of product quality, product efficacy and quality systems to our business. In the current environment of managed care, consolidation among healthcare providers, increased competition, declining reimbursement rates, and national and provincial tender pricing, as recently experienced in China, competitively priced product offerings are essential to our success. Our success depends on our ability to differentiate our product and keep pace with emerging technologies. Our continued growth and success depend on our ability to develop, acquire and market new and differentiated products, technologies and intellectual property, and as a result we also face competition for marketing, distribution, and collaborative development agreements, establishing relationships with academic and research institutions and licenses to intellectual property. In order to continue to compete effectively, we must continue to create, invest in or acquire advanced technology, incorporate this technology into our proprietary products, obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, and manufacture and successfully market our products. For example, data science, machine learning and AI are all impacting our products and operations and the competitive landscape in which we operate, and the application of these technologies is rapidly evolving at the same time as new laws and regulations of AI are being developed in jurisdictions around the world. Compliance with developing regulations may require significant expenditures or may limit our ability to effectively use these technologies. There can be no assurance that the application of AI in our products and operations will be successful, or that we will not experience data security and privacy incidents in connection with our use of these technologies. Given these factors, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete effectively or continue our level of success. Reduction or interruption in supply or other manufacturing difficulties may adversely affect our manufacturing operations and related product sales. The manufacture of our products requires the timely delivery of a sufficient amount of quality components and materials and is highly exacting and complex, due in part to complex trade and strict regulatory requirements. We manufacture the majority of our products and procure critical third-party services, such as sterilization services, at numerous facilities worldwide. We purchase many of the components, raw materials and services needed to manufacture these products from numerous suppliers in various countries. We seek to maintain continuity of supply by use of multiple options for sourcing where possible. We have generally been able to obtain adequate supplies of such raw materials, components and services, although global shortages of certain components such as semiconductors and resins have recently caused, and may in the future cause, disruptions to our product manufacturing supply chain. In addition, for reasons of quality assurance, cost effectiveness, or availability, certain components, raw materials and services needed to manufacture our products are obtained from sole suppliers. Although we work closely with our suppliers to try to ensure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability, the supply of these components, raw materials and services may, at times, be interrupted or insufficient. In addition, due to the stringent regulations and requirements of trade and regulatory agencies, including the U.S. FDA, regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources. Additionally, many regulatory agencies are imposing new and evolving regulatory requirements on safe use of chemicals, including ethylene oxides (EtOs) and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS), and their potential impact on health and the environment which also may impact supply constraints. Furthermore, the prices of commodities and other materials used in our products, which are often volatile and outside of our control, could adversely impact our supply. We use resins, other petroleum-based materials and pulp as raw materials in some of our products, and the prices of oil and gas also significantly affect our costs for freight and utilities. A reduction or interruption in supply, and an inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in a timely or cost-effective manner and could result in lost sales. Other disruptions in the manufacturing process or product sales, trade and fulfillment systems for any reason, including infrastructure, information and equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, supplier or Company facility shut-downs, defective raw materials, labor shortages, natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, or wildfires, property damage or facility closures from riots or public protests, and other environmental factors and the impact of epidemics, pandemics, or other public health crises, and actions by businesses, communities and governments in response, could lead to launch delays, product shortages, unanticipated costs, lost revenues and damage to our reputation. For example, in the past we have experienced a global information technology systems interruption that affected our customer ordering, distribution, and manufacturing processes, and we were adversely impacted by the global COVID-19 pandemic, and may in the future be adversely impacted by COVID-19 resurgence or other pandemics and the related responses of governments and of our partners, including suppliers, manufacturers, distributors and other businesses. Furthermore, any failure to identify and address manufacturing problems prior to the release of products to our customers could result in quality or safety issues. In addition, many of our products require sterilization before sale and several of our key products are manufactured or sterilized at a particular facility, with constrained capacity and limited options for alternate sterilization facilities. If an event occurs that causes damage to 14 or closure of one or more of such facilities, such as the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency's decision to close a supplier's sterilization facility in February 2019, we may be unable to manufacture or sterilize relevant products to the required quality specifications or at all. Due to the time required to approve and license a manufacturing or sterilization facility, a third-party may not be available on a timely basis to replace production capacity in the event manufacturing or sterilization capacity is reduced or lost. Public health crises have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on certain aspects of our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. The nature and extent of future impacts are highly uncertain and unpredictable. Our global operations and interactions with healthcare systems, providers and patients around the world expose us to risks associated with public health crises, including epidemics and pandemics such as COVID-19. Public health crises may continue to have an adverse impact on certain aspects of our Company and business, including the demand for and supply of certain of our products, operations, supply chains and distribution systems, and our ability to generate cash flow. Our research and development efforts rely upon investments and investment collaborations, and we cannot guarantee that any previous or future investments or investment collaborations will be successful. Our Mission is to provide a broad range of therapies to restore patients to fuller, healthier lives, which requires a wide variety of technologies, products and capabilities. The rapid pace of technological development in the medical industry and the specialized expertise required in different areas of medicine make it difficult for one company alone to develop a broad portfolio of technological solutions. In addition to internally generated growth through our research and development efforts, historically we have relied, and expect to continue to rely, upon investments and investment collaborations to provide us access to new technologies both in areas served by our existing businesses as well as in new areas. We expect to make future investments where we believe that we can stimulate the development or acquisition of new technologies and products to further our strategic objectives and strengthen our existing businesses. Investments and investment collaborations in and with medical technology companies are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that any of our previous or future investments or investment collaborations will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. The continuing development of many of our products depends upon us maintaining strong relationships with healthcare professionals. If we fail to maintain our working relationships with healthcare professionals, many of our products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, which could cause a decline in our earnings and profitability. The research, development, marketing and sales of many of our new and improved products depends on our maintaining working relationships with healthcare professionals. We rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding the development, marketing and sale of our products. Healthcare professionals assist us as researchers, marketing and product consultants, inventors, trainers, and public speakers. If we are unable to maintain strong relationships with these professionals, the development and marketing of our products could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We have debt obligations that create risk. We are required to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest or principal on our outstanding indebtedness instead of for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion of our business. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future to supplement our existing liquidity and cash generated from operations to satisfy our needs for working capital and capital expenditures, to pursue growth initiatives, and to make returns of capital to shareholders. Changes in business and economic conditions will impact interest rates and can cause periods of tightened credit availability and volatility in borrowing terms. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit rating. At the time we may incur such additional indebtedness, or refinance or restructure existing indebtedness, we may be unable to obtain capital market financing with similar terms and currency denomination to our existing indebtedness, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. At any time, the fair value of our debt outstanding will fluctuate based on several factors including foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate movements, credit conditions and our credit rating. Failure to integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully, or challenges related to the Company's strategic initiatives, including divestitures and third-party funding arrangements, as well as liabilities or claims relating to such acquired businesses, divestitures, or arrangements could adversely affect our business. As part of our strategy to develop and identify new products and technologies and optimize our portfolio of products, we have made several significant acquisitions, divestitures and third-party research and development funding arrangements in recent years, and may make additional acquisitions, divestitures and arrangements in the future. Our integration of the operations of acquired businesses, or a divestiture of part of our existing businesses, requires significant efforts, including the coordination of information technologies, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing, and finance. These efforts result in additional expenses and involve 15 significant amounts of management’s time that cannot then be dedicated to other projects. Our failure to manage and coordinate the growth of acquired companies successfully could also have an adverse impact on our business. Further, acquired businesses may have liabilities, or be subject to claims, litigation or investigations that we did not anticipate or which exceed our estimates at the time of the acquisition. In addition, we cannot be certain that the businesses we acquire will become profitable or remain so. Factors that will affect the success of our acquisitions include: • the presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the financial systems of acquired companies, • our ability or inability to integrate information technology systems of acquired companies in a secure and reliable manner, • liabilities, claims, litigation, investigations, or other adverse developments relating to acquired businesses or the business practices of acquired companies, including investigations by governmental entities, potential Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) or product liability claims, intellectual property disputes, earnout or other contingent payment disputes, or other unanticipated liabilities, • any decrease in customer loyalty and product orders caused by dissatisfaction with the combined companies’ product lines and sales and marketing practices, including price increases, • our ability to retain key employees, and • the ability to achieve synergies among acquired companies, such as increasing sales of the integrated company’s products, achieving cost savings, and effectively combining technologies to develop new products. We also could experience negative effects on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows from acquisition-related charges, amortization of intangible assets and asset impairment charges. In addition, the potential exists that expected strategic benefits from any planned or completed divestiture, or third-party funding arrangement, by the Company may not be realized or may take longer to realize than expected, and there can be no assurance that disputes will not arise under the Company's third-party funding arrangements, or transition service agreements that have or may be executed as part of a divestiture. Legal and Regulatory Risks We are subject to extensive and complex laws and governmental regulations and any adverse regulatory action may materially adversely affect our financial condition and business operations. Our medical devices and technologies, as well as our business activities, are subject to a complex set of regulations and rigorous enforcement, including by the U.S. FDA, U.S. Department of Justice, Health and Human Services Office of the Inspector General, and numerous other federal, state, and non-U.S. governmental authorities. To varying degrees, each of these agencies requires us to comply with laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing and distribution of our products. As a part of the regulatory process of obtaining marketing clearance for new products and new indications for existing products, we conduct and participate in numerous clinical trials with a variety of study designs, patient populations, and trial endpoints. Unfavorable clinical data from existing or future clinical trials may adversely impact our ability to obtain product approvals, our position in, and share of, the markets in which we participate, and our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain or maintain marketing clearance for our new products or enhancements or modifications to existing products, and the failure to maintain approvals or obtain approval or clearance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Even if we are able to obtain approval or clearance, it may: • take a significant amount of time, • require the expenditure of substantial resources, • involve stringent clinical and pre-clinical testing, as well as increased post-market surveillance, • involve modifications, repairs or replacements of our products, and • limit the proposed uses of our products. Both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under the U.S. FDA and other applicable non-U.S. government agency regulations. For instance, many of our facilities and procedures and those of our suppliers are also subject to periodic inspections by the U.S. FDA to assess compliance with applicable regulations. The results of these inspections can include, and have in the past included, inspectional observations on the U.S. FDA’s Form 483, warning letters, or other forms of enforcement, such as a consent decree. If the U.S. FDA were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical products are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the U.S. FDA could detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical products, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such products, refuse to grant pending pre-market approval applications or require certificates of non-U.S. governments for exports, and/or require us to notify health professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health, and in certain rare circumstances, ban medical devices. The U.S. FDA and other non-U.S. government agencies may also assess civil or criminal penalties against us, our officers or employees and impose operating 16 restrictions on a company-wide basis. The U.S. FDA may also recommend prosecution to the U.S. Department of Justice. Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively marketing and selling our products and limit our ability to obtain future pre-market clearances or approvals, and could result in a substantial modification to our business practices and operations. Furthermore, we occasionally receive subpoenas or other requests for information from various governmental agencies around the world, and while these investigations typically relate primarily to financial arrangements with healthcare providers, regulatory compliance and product promotional practices, we cannot predict the timing, outcome or impact of any such investigations. Any adverse outcome in one or more of these investigations could include the commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings, substantial fines, penalties, and/or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs and/or entry into Corporate Integrity Agreements (CIAs) with governmental agencies. In addition, resolution of any of these matters could involve the imposition of additional, costly compliance obligations. These potential consequences, as well as any adverse outcome from government investigations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. In addition, the U.S. FDA has taken the position that device manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products other than for the uses and indications set forth in the approved product labeling, and any failure to comply could subject us to significant civil or criminal exposure, administrative obligations and costs, and/or other potential penalties from, and/or agreements with, the federal government. Governmental regulations in the U.S. and outside the U.S. are constantly changing and may become increasingly stringent. In the E.U, for example, the Medical Device Regulation which became effective in May 2021 includes significant additional pre-market and post-market requirements. Penalties for regulatory non-compliance could be severe, including fines and revocation or suspension of a company’s business license, mandatory price reductions and criminal sanctions. The development and implementation of future laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on us. Quality problems have in the past and could in the future lead to recalls or safety alerts, product liability claims, reputational harm, adverse verdicts or costly settlements, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Quality is extremely important to us and our customers due to the impact on patients, and the serious and potentially costly consequences of adverse product performance. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture, and marketing of medical devices. In addition, many of our products are often used in intensive care settings with seriously ill patients and some of the medical devices we manufacture and sell are designed to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time or indefinitely. Component failures, manufacturing nonconformances, design issues, off-label use, or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information with respect to our products, could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a patient. These problems have in the past and could in the future lead to recall of, or issuance of a safety alert relating to, our products, as well as product liability claims and lawsuits, including class actions, which could ultimately result, in certain cases, in the removal from the body of such products and claims regarding costs associated therewith. Due to the strong name recognition of the Medtronic brand, a material adverse event involving one of our products could result in diminished market acceptance and demand for all products within that brand, and could harm our reputation and ability to market products in the future. Strong product quality is critical to the success of our goods and services. If we fall short of these standards and our products are the subject of recalls or safety alerts, our reputation could be damaged, we could lose customers and our revenue and results of operations could decline. Our success also can depend on our ability to manufacture to exact specification precision-engineered components, subassemblies and finished devices from multiple materials. If our components fail to meet these standards or fail to adapt to evolving standards, our reputation, competitive advantage and market share could be harmed. In certain situations, we may undertake a voluntary recall of products or temporarily shut down production lines based on performance relative to our own internal safety and quality monitoring and testing data. Any of the foregoing problems, including future product liability claims or recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Our failure to comply with laws and regulations relating to reimbursement of healthcare goods and services may subject us to penalties and adversely impact our reputation, business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Our devices, products and therapies are purchased principally by hospitals or physicians that typically bill various third-party payors, such as governmental healthcare programs (e.g., Medicare, Medicaid and comparable non-U.S. programs), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. The ability of our customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for products and services from third-party payors is critical because it affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. As a result, our devices, products and therapies are subject to regulation regarding quality and cost by HHS, including the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), as well as comparable state and non-U.S. agencies responsible for reimbursement and regulation of health care goods and services, including laws and regulations related to fair competition, kickbacks, false claims, self-referrals and healthcare fraud. Many states have similar laws that apply to reimbursement by state Medicaid and other funded programs as well as in some cases to all payors. In certain circumstances, insurance companies attempt to bring a private cause of action against a manufacturer for causing false claims. In addition, as a manufacturer of U.S. FDA-approved devices reimbursable by federal healthcare programs, we are 17 subject to the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which requires us to annually report certain payments and other transfers of value we make to U.S. licensed physicians, certain allied health professionals, and U.S. teaching hospitals. Any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us or our officers and employees to criminal and civil financial penalties. We are also subject to risks relating to changes in government and private medical reimbursement programs and policies, and changes in legal regulatory requirements in the U.S. and around the world. Implementation of further legislative or administrative reforms to these reimbursement systems, or adverse decisions relating to coverage of or reimbursement for our products by administrators of these systems, could have an impact on the acceptance of and demand for our products and the prices that our customers are willing to pay for them. We are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to our rights or the rights of others may result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impacting our ability to sell current or future products. We are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights and rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, tradenames, copyrights, trade secrets, and agreements (such as employee and non-disclosure) to protect our business and proprietary intellectual property. We also operate in an industry characterized by extensive intellectual property litigation. Intellectual property litigation can result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent our manufacture and sale of affected products or require us to pay significant royalties in order to continue to manufacture or sell affected products. At any given time, we are generally involved as both a plaintiff and a defendant in a number of intellectual property actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. While it is not possible to predict the outcome of intellectual property litigation, it is possible that the results of such litigation could require us to pay significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or that enforcement actions to protect our patent and proprietary rights against others could be unsuccessful, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. In addition, any public announcements related to litigation or administrative proceedings initiated or threatened against us could cause our stock price to decline. While we intend to defend against any threats to our intellectual property, our patents, trademarks, tradenames, copyrights, trade secrets or agreements (such as employee, non-disclosure and non-competition agreements) may not adequately protect our intellectual property. Further, pending patent applications may not result in patents being issued to us, patents issued to or licensed by us may be challenged or circumvented by competitors and such patents may be found invalid, unenforceable or too limited in scope to protect our technology or provide us with any competitive advantage. In addition, our patents will expire over time, our ability to protect novel business models is uncertain, and infringement may go undetected. Third parties could obtain patents that may require us to negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and such licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. In addition, license agreements could be terminated. We also rely on non-disclosure and non-competition agreements with certain employees, consultants and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary rights. We cannot be certain that these agreements will not be breached, that such provisions will be enforceable, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or proprietary knowledge. Moreover, in the U.S. the Federal Trade Commission and various states have adopted laws and regulations that purport to ban or severely restrict the use of non-competition agreements, which may limit our ability to use and enforce non-competition agreements with employees. In addition, the laws of certain countries in which we market or manufacture some of our products do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S., which could make it easier for competitors to capture market position. For example, business in China comprises approximately seven percent of our total revenues. This may increase our vulnerability to our technology being reverse engineered or our trade secrets being compromised. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property in China or other countries, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Competitors also may harm our sales by designing products that substantially mirror the capabilities of our products or technology without infringing our intellectual property rights. Healthcare policy changes may have a material adverse effect on us. There have been and continue to be actions and proposals by several governments, regulators and third-party payors globally, including the U.S. federal and state governments and the government in China, to control healthcare costs and, more generally, to reform healthcare systems. Certain of these actions and proposals, among other things, limit the prices we are able to charge for our products or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products, increase the importance of our ability to compete on cost, and could limit the acceptance and availability of our products. These actions and proposals could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 18 We rely on the proper function, security and availability of our information technology systems and data, as well as those of third parties throughout our global supply chain and our customer and payor base, to operate our business, and a breach, cyber-attack or other disruption to these systems or data could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, reputation or competitive position. We are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology systems to operate our business. That technology includes systems that could be used to process, transmit and store sensitive data. Additionally, many of our products and services include integrated software and information technology that collects data regarding patients or connects to other internal systems. One of the most prevalent attacks on large organizations has been ransomware which can have a devastating impact on an organization’s operations. Our ransomware readiness program has required and will continue to require investment and will not guarantee that we will be immune from an incident or be able to respond rapidly enough to prevent a negative impact on our business. Like all organizations, we routinely experience attempted interference with the integrity of, and interruptions in, our technology systems via events such as cyber-attacks, malicious intrusions, or other breakdowns. The consequences could mean data breaches, interference with the integrity of our products and data, compromise of intellectual property or other proprietary information, or other significant disruptions. Furthermore, we rely on third-party vendors to supply and/or support certain aspects of our information technology systems and resulting products, and customers and payors use information technology systems to process payments relating to our products and services. These third-party systems could also become vulnerable to cyber-attack, malicious intrusions, breakdowns, interference, or other significant disruptions, and may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could result in system disruption or compromise the information security of our own systems. In addition, our global profile and international operations expose us to geopolitical events or issues which may increase cybersecurity risks on a global basis. Lastly, we continue to grow in part through new business acquisitions and, as a result, may face risks associated with defects and vulnerabilities in acquired businesses’ systems, or difficulties or other breakdowns or disruptions in connection with the integration of the acquisitions into our information technology systems. Our worldwide operations mean that we are subject to laws and regulations, including data protection and cybersecurity laws and regulations, in many jurisdictions. The variety of U.S. and international privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations impacting our operations are described in “Item 1. Business" – Other Factors Impacting Our Operations – Data Privacy and Security Laws and Regulations . Any data security breaches, cyber-attacks, malicious intrusions or significant disruptions could result in actions by regulatory bodies and/or civil litigation, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, reputation, or competitive position. In addition, our information technology systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and enhance existing systems and develop new systems. We experience continuing changes in information processing technology, legal and regulatory standards, patient and customer information use cases, techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to data and information systems, and the information technology needs associated with our changing products and services. We also face business and regulatory risks relating to our use of AI systems in our business operations and products. These systems are susceptible to flaws, biases, malfunctions or manipulations, which may disrupt our operations, result in erroneous decision-making, elevate our cyber risk profile, or expose us to penalties from non-compliance with emerging regulations. There can be no assurance that our efforts to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technologies, including AI systems, and to deploy these technologies to our business operations and products will be successful or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. If our information technology systems, products or services or sensitive data are compromised, there are many consequences that could result. Consequences include, but are not limited to, patients or employees being exposed to financial or medical identity theft or suffering a loss of product functionality, losing existing customers or have difficulty attracting new customers, experiencing difficulty preventing, detecting, and controlling fraud, being exposed to the loss or misuse of confidential information, having disputes with customers, physicians, and other healthcare professionals, suffering regulatory sanctions or penalties under federal laws, state laws, or the laws of other jurisdictions, experiencing increases in operating expenses or an impairment in our ability to conduct our operations, incurring expenses or losing revenues as a result of a data privacy breach, product failure, information technology outages or disruptions, or suffering other adverse consequences including lawsuits or other legal action and damage to our reputation. The failure to comply with anti-corruption laws could materially adversely affect our business and result in civil and/or criminal sanctions. The U.S. FCPA, the Irish Criminal Justice (Corruption Offences) Act 2018, and similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business and to ensure adequate internal controls, books, and records. Because of the predominance of government-administered healthcare systems in many jurisdictions around the world, many of our customer relationships outside of the U.S. are with governmental entities and are therefore potentially subject to such laws. We also participate in public-private partnerships and other commercial and policy arrangements with governments around the globe. Global enforcement of anti-corruption laws has increased in recent years, including investigations and enforcement proceedings leading to assessment of significant fines and penalties against companies and individuals. Our international operations create a risk of unauthorized 19 payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents, or distributors. We maintain various controls aligned with legal requirements to prevent and prohibit improper practices, including policies, programs, and training for our employees and third party intermediaries acting on our behalf. However, existing safeguards and any future improvements may not always be effective, and our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors may engage in conduct for which we could be held responsible. In addition, regulators could seek to hold us liable for conduct committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. Any alleged or actual violations of these regulations may subject us to government scrutiny, criminal or civil sanctions and other liabilities, including exclusion from government contracting, and could disrupt our business, adversely affect our reputation and result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Laws and regulations governing international business operations could adversely impact our business. The U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) and the U.S. Commerce Department’s Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) administer certain laws and regulations that restrict U.S. persons and, in some instances, non-U.S. persons, in conducting activities, transacting business with, or making investments in, certain countries, governments, entities and individuals subject to U.S. economic sanctions or export restrictions. Our international operations subject us to these laws and regulations, which are complex, restrict our business dealings with certain countries, governments, entities, and individuals, and are constantly changing. Further restrictions may be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner that materially impacts our operations. From time to time, certain of our subsidiaries have limited business dealings in countries subject to comprehensive sanctions, including Iran, Syria, Cuba, and the region of Crimea, as well as Russia and Belarus. Certain of our subsidiaries sell medical devices, and may provide related services, to distributors and other purchasing bodies in such countries or regions. These business dealings represent an insignificant amount of our consolidated revenues and income, but expose us to a heightened risk of violating applicable sanctions regulations. Violations of these regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. We have established policies and procedures designed to assist with our compliance with such laws and regulations. However, such regulations may impact our ability to continue operations in certain countries and require additional licenses which we may not be able to obtain or maintain. There can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, and such a violation could adversely affect our reputation, business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change may materially adversely affect our financial condition and business operations. Climate change resulting from increased concentrations of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere presents risks to our current and future operations. We face current and long-term operational risks and have in the past experienced business interruptions from severe weather events and other natural conditions, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, droughts, extreme temperatures, wildfires or flooding. Such severe weather events caused by or related to climate change or other conditions caused by natural disasters have in the past and could in the future increase our operational costs, pose physical risks to our facilities and adversely impact our supply chain, including: manufacturing and distribution networks, the availability and cost of raw materials and components, energy supply, transportation, or other inputs necessary for the operation of our business. The impacts of climate change on global water resources may result in water scarcity, which could impact our ability to access sufficient quantities of water in certain locations and result in increased costs. Although it is difficult to predict and adequately prepare to meet the challenges to our business posed by climate change, concerns over climate change also could result in new laws or regulations that are more stringent than current legal or regulatory requirements, and we may experience increased compliance burdens and costs to meet the regulatory obligations as well as adverse impacts on raw material sourcing, manufacturing operations and the distribution of our products. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations and the risk of environmental liabilities, violations and litigation. We are subject to environmental, health, and safety laws, and regulations concerning, among other things, the generation, handling, transportation, and disposal of hazardous substances or wastes, the remediation of hazardous substances or materials at various sites, and emissions or discharges into the land, air or water. We are further subject to numerous laws and regulations concerning, among other things, chemical constituents in medical products and end-of-life disposal and take-back programs for medical devices. Our operations and those of certain third-party suppliers involve the use of substances subject to these laws and regulations, primarily those used in manufacturing and sterilization processes. If we or our suppliers violate these environmental laws and regulations, facilities could be shut down and violators could be fined, or otherwise sanctioned. New laws and regulations, violations of these laws or regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements, or the discovery of previously unknown contamination could require us to incur costs or could become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could be material. We are subject to risks related to our environmental, social and governance (ESG) practices and initiatives. There is continued focus from our stakeholders, as well as regulatory authorities in the U.S., E.U. and other global jurisdictions in which we operate, on ESG practices and disclosure. If we do not succeed in meeting or are perceived as not meeting, stated goals and objectives, in any number of ESG matters, such as environmental stewardship, ID&E initiatives, supply chain practices, good corporate governance, 20 workplace conduct and support for local communities, or if we do not effectively respond to new or revised legal, regulatory or reporting requirements concerning climate change or other sustainability concerns, we may be subject to regulatory fines and penalties, our reputation or the reputation of our brands may suffer, we may be unable to attract and retain top talent, and our stock price may be negatively affected. In addition, enhanced and sometimes conflicting ESG laws, regulations and expectations in the jurisdictions in which we do business may increase compliance burdens and costs for third parties throughout our global supply chain, which could cause disruption in the sourcing, manufacturing and distribution of our products and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Further, we have made several public disclosures of objectives and targets (targets) relating to product stewardship, ID&E, patient safety and product quality, access and innovation, and climate stewardship, including our ambition to be carbon neutral in our operations by 2030 and to achieve net zero emissions by 2045. Although we intend to achieve these targets, we may be required to expend significant resources to do so, which could increase our operational costs. In addition, there can be no assurance of the extent to which any of our targets will be achieved, or that any future investments we make to achieve such targets will meet investor, legal and/or any other regulatory expectations and requirements. If we are unable to meet our targets, we may face litigation and could incur regulatory fines and penalties or adverse publicity and reaction from investors, advocacy groups or other stakeholders that may adversely impact our business, demand for our products and services, and/or our financial condition and results of operations. Our insurance program may not be adequate to cover future losses. We have elected to self-insure most of our insurable risks across the Company, and we made this decision based on cost and availability factors in the insurance marketplace. We manage and maintain a portion of our self-insured program through a wholly-owned captive insurance company. We continue to maintain a directors and officers liability insurance policy with third-party insurers that provides coverage for the directors and officers of the Company. We continue to monitor the insurance marketplace to evaluate the value of obtaining insurance coverage for other categories of losses in the future. Although we believe, based on historical loss trends, that our self-insurance program accruals and our existing insurance coverage will be adequate to cover future losses, historical trends may not be indicative of future losses. The absence of third-party insurance coverage for other categories of losses increases our exposure to unanticipated claims and these losses could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) published Pillar Two Model Rules defining the global minimum tax, which calls for the taxation of large multinational corporations at a minimum rate of 15% in each jurisdiction in which the group operates. The OECD has since issued administrative guidance providing transition and safe harbor rules around the implementation of the Pillar Two global minimum tax. A number of countries, including Ireland, have enacted legislation to implement the core elements of Pillar Two, which will be effective for Medtronic in fiscal year 2025. We continue to evaluate the impacts of the enacted Pillar Two legislation. The tax laws, inclusive of Pillar Two legislation, in the U.S., Ireland and other countries in which we and our affiliates do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could have a material impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We are subject to ongoing tax audits in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We have recorded reserves for potential payments of tax to various tax authorities related to uncertain tax positions. However, the calculation of such tax liabilities involves the application of complex tax laws, regulations and treaties (where applicable) in many jurisdictions. Therefore, any dispute with a tax authority may result in a payment that is significantly different from current estimates. If payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be less than the recorded amounts, the reversal of the liabilities generally would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. If our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the amount for which it is ultimately liable, we would incur additional charges, and such charges could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. The outcome of Medtronic, Inc.'s U.S. tax litigation could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. In March 2009, the IRS issued its audit report for Medtronic, Inc. for fiscal years 2005 and 2006. Medtronic, Inc. reached agreements with the IRS on some, but not all matters related to these fiscal years. The remaining unresolved issue for fiscal years 2005 and 2006 relates to the allocation of income between Medtronic, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiary operating in Puerto Rico, which is one of our key manufacturing sites. The Tax Court issued its opinion in August 2022, the IRS filed a Notice of Appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit in September 2023, and Medtronic subsequently filed a cross-appeal in October 2023. An adverse outcome in this matter could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. See Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 21 Future potential changes to the U.S. tax laws could result in us being treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes, and the IRS may not agree with the conclusion that we should be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Because Medtronic plc is organized under the laws of Ireland, we would generally be classified as a foreign corporation under the general rule that a corporation is considered tax resident in the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Even so, the IRS may assert that we should be treated as a U.S. corporation (and, therefore, a U.S. tax resident) for U.S. federal income tax purposes pursuant to Section 7874 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). In addition, a retroactive change to U.S. tax laws in this area could change this classification. If we were to be treated as a U.S. corporation for federal tax purposes, we could be subject to substantially greater U.S. tax liability than currently contemplated as a non-U.S. corporation. Legislative or other governmental action relating to the denial of U.S. federal or state governmental contracts to U.S. companies that redomicile abroad could adversely affect our business. Various U.S. federal and state legislative proposals that would deny governmental contracts to U.S. companies that move their corporate location abroad may affect us. We are unable to predict the likelihood that, or final form in which, any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of the regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the effect such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business. Risks Relating to Our Jurisdiction of Incorporation We are incorporated in Ireland, and Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the U.S. and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. Our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. It may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the U.S. against us in Ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. In addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of Ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised that the U.S. currently does not have a treaty with Ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any U.S. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in Ireland. As an Irish company, we are governed by the Irish Companies Act 2014, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. Likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an Irish company generally are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. Accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in the U.S. As an Irish public limited company, certain capital structure decisions require shareholder approval, which may limit Medtronic’s flexibility to manage its capital structure. Under Irish law, our authorized share capital can be increased by an ordinary resolution of our shareholders and the directors may issue new ordinary or preferred shares, without shareholder approval, once authorized to do so by our articles of association or by an ordinary resolution of our shareholders. Additionally, subject to specified exceptions, Irish law grants statutory preemption rights to existing shareholders where shares are being issued for cash consideration but allows shareholders to disapply such statutory preemption rights either in our articles of association or by way of special resolution. Such disapplication can either be generally applicable or be in respect of a particular allotment of shares. Accordingly, at our 2023 Annual General Meeting, our Shareholders authorized our Board of Directors to issue up to 20% of our issued ordinary shares and further authorized our Board of Directors to issue such shares for cash without first offering them to our existing shareholders. Both of these authorizations will expire on April 19, 2025, unless renewed by shareholders for a further period. We anticipate seeking new authorizations at our 2024 Annual General Meeting and in subsequent years. We cannot provide any assurance that these authorizations will always be approved, which could limit our ability to issue equity and thereby adversely affect the holders of our securities. A transfer of our shares, other than ones effected by means of the transfer of book-entry interests in the Depository Trust Company, may be subject to Irish stamp duty. Transfers of our shares effected by means of the transfer of book entry interests in the Depository Trust Company (DTC) will not be subject to Irish stamp duty. However, if a shareholder holds our shares directly rather than beneficially through DTC, any transfer of shares could be subject to Irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the higher of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired). Payment of Irish stamp duty is generally a legal obligation of the transferee. The potential for stamp duty could adversely affect the price of shares. 22 In certain limited circumstances, dividends we pay may be subject to Irish dividend withholding tax and dividends received by Irish residents and certain other shareholders may be subject to Irish income tax. In certain limited circumstances, dividend withholding tax (currently at a rate of 25%) may arise in respect of dividends paid on our shares. A number of exemptions from dividend withholding tax exist such that shareholders resident in the U.S. and other specified countries that have a tax treaty with Ireland may be entitled to exemptions from dividend withholding tax. Shareholders resident in the U.S. that hold their shares through DTC will not be subject to dividend withholding tax, provided the addresses of the beneficial owners of such shares in the records of the brokers holding such shares are recorded as being in the U.S. (and such brokers have further transmitted the relevant information to a qualifying intermediary appointed by us). However, other shareholders may be subject to dividend withholding tax, which could adversely affect the price of their shares. Shareholders entitled to an exemption from Irish dividend withholding tax on dividends received from us will not be subject to Irish income tax in respect of those dividends unless they have some connection with Ireland other than their shareholding in our Company (for example, they are resident in Ireland). Shareholders who are not resident nor ordinarily resident in Ireland, but who receive dividends subject to Irish dividend withholding tax, will generally have no further liability to Irish income tax on those dividends. Our shares received by means of a gift or inheritance could be subject to Irish capital acquisitions tax. Irish capital acquisitions tax (CAT) could apply to a gift or inheritance of our shares irrespective of the place of residence, ordinary residence or domicile of the parties. This is because our shares will be regarded as property situated in Ireland. The person who receives the gift or inheritance has primary liability for CAT. Gifts and inheritances passing between spouses are exempt from CAT. Children currently have a tax-free threshold of €335,000 in respect of taxable gifts or inheritances received from their parents. Economic and Industry Risks Changes in the prices of our goods and services, customer purchasing patterns and stocking dynamics, and/or inflationary costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We have had, and may continue to have, periods when prices for certain of our goods and services decrease due to pricing pressure from managed care organizations and other third-party payors on our customers; increased market power of our customers as the healthcare industry consolidates; periodic variation in timing, volume, and pricing associated with customer purchasing patterns and stocking dynamics; and increased competition among medical engineering and manufacturing services providers. We have also recently experienced, and may continue to experience, rising costs due to inflation. If the prices for our goods and services change for any reason or inflation continues to rise, we may be unable to sufficiently reduce our expenses or offset rising costs through increased prices to customers. As a result, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows may be adversely affected. We are subject to a variety of risks associated with global operations that could adversely affect our profitability and operating results. We develop, manufacture, distribute and sell our products globally. We intend to continue to expand our operations and to pursue growth opportunities outside the U.S., especially in emerging markets. Operations in different countries including emerging markets could expose us to additional and greater risks and potential costs, including: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, • healthcare reform legislation, • the need to comply with different regulatory regimes worldwide that are subject to change and that could restrict our ability to manufacture and sell our products, • local product preferences and product requirements, • longer-term receivables than are typical in the U.S., • economic sanctions, export controls, trade protection measures, tariffs and other border taxes, and import or export licensing requirements, • less intellectual property protection in some countries outside the U.S. than exists in the U.S., • different labor regulations and workforce instability, • political and economic instability, including as a result of armed conflicts and insurrections, • restrictions on local currency conversion or cash extraction, • potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws, and • economic instability and inflation, recession or interest rate fluctuations. The ongoing global economic competition and trade tensions between the U.S. and China present risk to Medtronic. Although we have been able to mitigate some of the impact on Medtronic from increased duties imposed by both sides (through petitioning both governments for 23 tariff exclusions and other mitigations), the risk remains of additional tariffs and other kinds of restrictions. Tariff exclusions awarded to Medtronic by the U.S. Government require periodic renewal, and policies for granting exclusions could shift. The U.S. and China, which comprises approximately seven percent of our total revenues, could impose other types of restrictions such as limitations on government procurement or technology export restrictions, which could affect Medtronic’s access to the markets. The Russia-Ukraine conflict and resulting sanctions and export restrictions are creating barriers to doing business in Russia and Belarus and adversely impacting global supply chains. While we have no manufacturing, distribution or direct material suppliers in the region, we continue to closely monitor the potential raw material/sub-tier supplier impact in both Russia and Ukraine including materials like palladium and neon, which are both dependent on Russia supply. Additional sanctions, export restrictions, and potential countermeasures within Russia, along with geopolitical shifts in Asia and disruptions relating to Israel's conflict in Gaza, may lead to greater uncertainty that could cause additional adverse impacts on global supply chains and our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. More generally, several governments including the U.S. have raised the possibility of policies to induce “re-shoring” of supply chains, less reliance on imported supplies, and greater national production. Examples include potential “Buy America” requirements in the U.S. If such steps triggered retaliation in other markets restricting access to foreign products in purchases by their government-owned healthcare systems, the result could be a significant impact on Medtronic. Other significant changes or disruptions to international trade arrangements, such as termination or modifications of other existing trade agreements, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. In addition, a significant amount of our trade receivables are with national healthcare systems in many countries. Repayment of these receivables is dependent upon the political and financial stability of those countries. In light of these global economic fluctuations, we continue to monitor the creditworthiness of customers. Failure to receive payment of all or a significant portion of these receivables could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Finally, changes in currency exchange rates may impact the reported value of our revenues, expenses, and cash flows. In addition, the impact of currency devaluations in countries experiencing significant currency exchange fluctuations could negatively impact the Company's operating results. We cannot predict changes in currency exchange rates, the impact of exchange rate changes, nor the degree to which we will be able to manage the impact of currency exchange rate changes. Market disruptions resulting in diminished liquidity, or healthcare professional and staff strikes or other work stoppages, could adversely affect our revenues, results of operation, or financial condition. Disruptions in international markets and supporting financial services and uncertainty about economic conditions (for instance, resulting from credit scarcity, geopolitical risks and sovereign debt deterioration), have in the past caused periods of tightened credit availability and increased volatility in liquidity and borrowing terms. If these conditions were to recur or worsen, we may experience reduced demand for a number of our products. We also could experience reduced sales and profits due to delayed payments or the insolvency of healthcare professionals, hospitals and other customers, suppliers and vendors who experience liquidity issues, including as a result of cybersecurity incidents impacting private and government health insurance payors. In addition, healthcare professional and staff strikes or other work stoppages have in the past and may in the future cause reduced demand for our products. As a result, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be adversely affected. Consolidation in the healthcare industry and the growing prevalence of ambulatory surgery centers (ASCs) could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Many healthcare industry companies, including healthcare systems, distributors, manufacturers, providers, and insurers, are consolidating or have formed strategic alliances. As the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide goods and services to industry participants will become more intense. Further, this consolidation creates larger enterprises with greater negotiating power, which can be used to negotiate price concessions. In addition, the movement of procedures to ASCs could also create downward pricing pressure. If we must reduce our prices because of industry consolidation or ASC procedures, or if we lose customers as a result of consolidation or ASC procedures, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be adversely affected. Healthcare industry cost-containment measures could result in reduced sales of our medical devices and medical device components. Most of our customers, and the healthcare providers to whom our customers supply medical devices, rely on third-party payors, including government programs and private health insurance plans, to reimburse some or all of the cost of the procedures in which medical devices that incorporate components we manufacture or assemble are used. The continuing efforts of governmental authorities, insurance companies and other payors of healthcare costs to contain or reduce these costs could lead to patients being unable to obtain approval for payment from these third-party payors. If third-party payor payment approval cannot be obtained by patients, sales of finished medical devices that include our components may decline significantly and our customers may reduce or eliminate purchases of our components. The cost-containment measures that healthcare providers are instituting, both in the U.S. and outside of the U.S., could harm our ability to operate profitably. For example, managed care organizations have successfully negotiated volume discounts for pharmaceuticals, and GPOs and IDNs have also 24 concentrated purchasing decisions for some customers, which has led to downward pricing pressure for medical device companies, including us.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

UNDERSTANDING OUR FINANCIAL INFORMATION The following discussion and analysis provides information management believes to be relevant to understanding the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. The discussi on focuses on our financial results for the fiscal year ended April 26, 2024 (fiscal year 2024) and the fiscal year ended April 28, 2023 (fiscal year 2023). A discussion on our results of operations for fiscal year 2023 as compared to the year ended April 29, 2022 (fiscal year 2022) is included in Part II, Item 7. "Mana gement's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended April 28, 2023 , filed with the SEC on June 22, 2023, and is i ncorporated by reference into this Form 10-K . You should read this discussion and analysis along with our consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto at April 26, 2024 and April 28, 2023 and for fiscal years 2024, 2023, and 2022, which are presented within "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Amounts reported in millions within this annual report are computed based on the amounts in thousands, and therefore, the sum of the components may not equal the total amount reported in millions due to rounding. Additionally, certain columns and rows within tables may not sum due to rounding. Financial Trends Throughout this Management’s Discussion and Analysis, we present certain financial measures that facilitate management's review of the operational performance of the Company and as a basis for strategic planning; however, such financial measures are not presented in our financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S.) (U.S. GAAP). These financial measures are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" and are intended to supplement, and should not be considered as superior to, financial measures presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We believe that non-GAAP financial measures provide information useful to investors in understanding the Company's underlying operational performance and trends and may facilitate comparisons with the performance of other companies in the medical technologies industry. As presented in the GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations section on the following pages, our non-GAAP financial measures exclude the impact of amortization of intangible assets and certain charges or benefits that contribute to or reduce earnings and that may affect financial trends and include certain charges or benefits that result from transactions or events that we believe may or may not recur with similar materiality or impact to our operations in future periods (Non-GAAP Adjustments). In the event there is a Non-GAAP Adjustment recognized in our operating results, the tax cost or benefit attributable to that item is separately calculated and reported. Because the effective rate can be significantly impacted by the Non-GAAP Adjustments that take place during the period, we often refer to our tax rate using both the effective rate and the non-GAAP nominal tax rate (Non-GAAP Nominal Tax Rate). The Non-GAAP Nominal Tax Rate is calculated as the income tax provision, adjusted for the impact of Non-GAAP Adjustments, as a percentage of income before income taxes, excluding Non-GAAP Adjustments. Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure calculated by subtracting property, plant, and equipment additions from operating cash flows. Refer to the “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations," "Income Taxes," and "Free Cash Flow" sections for reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. 29 EXECUTIVE LEVEL OVERVIEW The following is a summary of revenue, diluted earnings per share, and cash flow for fiscal years 2024 and 2023: GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations The tables below present reconciliations of our Non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP for fiscal years 2024 and 2023. 30 (1) Associated costs include costs incurred as a direct result of the restructuring program, such as salaries for employees supporting the program, consulting expenses, and asset write-offs. (2) The charges predominantly include $439 million of charges related to the February 20, 2024 decision to exit the Company's ventilator product line, which primarily includes long-lived intangible asset impairments and inventory write-downs. In addition, other charges primarily consist of changes in fair value of contingent consideration and associated costs related to the previously contemplated separation of the PMRI businesses. (3) We exclude unrealized and realized gains and losses on our minority investments as we do not believe that these components of income or expense have a direct correlation to our ongoing or future business operations. (4) The charges represent incremental costs of complying with the new European Union medical device regulations for previously registered products and primarily include charges for contractors supporting the project and other direct third-party expenses. We consider these costs to be duplicative of previously incurred costs and/or one-time costs, which are limited to a specific time period. (5) The net charge primarily relates to an income tax reserve adjustment associated with the June 2023, Israeli Central-Lod District Court decision and the establishment of a valuation allowance against certain net operating losses which were partially offset by a benefit from the change in a Swiss Cantonal tax rate associated with previously established deferred tax assets from intercompany intellectual property transactions and the step up in tax basis for Swiss Cantonal purposes. (6) The charges predominantly include non-cash pre-tax impairments, primarily related to goodwill, changes in the carrying value of the disposal group, and other associated costs, as a result of the April 2023 sale of half of the Company's Renal Care Solutions (RCS) business; business combination costs, and associated costs related to the previously contemplated separation of the PMRI businesses. (7) Certain litigation includes $35 million income related to the one-time payment received as a result of the Intellectual Property Agreement entered into with Edwards Lifesciences in April 2023. (8) The charges relate to the early redemption of approximately $2.3 billion of debt and were recorded within interest expense, net within the consolidated statements of income. (9) The charge primarily relates to a $764 million reserve adjustment that was a direct result of the U.S. Tax Court opinion, issued in August 2022, on the previously disclosed litigation regarding the allocation of income between Medtronic, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiary operating in Puerto Rico. Additional charges relate to the reduction of deferred tax assets due to the disallowance of certain interest deductions and the change in the reporting currency for certain carryover attributes, and the amortization on previously established deferred tax assets from intercompany intellectual property transactions. Free Cash Flow Free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, is calculated by subtracting additions to property, plant, and equipment from net cash provided by operating activities. Management uses this non-GAAP financial measure, in addition to U.S. GAAP financial measures, to evaluate our operating results. Free cash flow should be considered supplemental to, and not a substitute for, our reported financial results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Reconciliations between net cash provided by operating activities (the most comparable U.S. GAAP measure) and free cash flow are as follows: Refer to the Summary of Cash Flows section for drivers of the change in cash provided by operating activities. 31 NET SALES Segment and Division Prior period revenue has been recast to reflect the new reporting structure. The activity of the Company's Renal Care Solutions business and the ventilator product line were moved out of Medical Surgical and into the Other line, and the retained PMRI businesses were combined into one business unit called Acute Care & Monitoring in Medical Surgical. Refer to Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the Company's new reporting structure. The charts below illustrate the percent of net sales by segment for fiscal years 2024 and 2023: The table below includes net sales by segment and division for fiscal years 2024 and 2023: (1) Includes historical operations and ongoing transition agreements from businesses the Company has exited or divested, which primarily includes the Company's ventilator product line and the Renal Care Solutions business. 32 Segment and Market Geography The charts below illustrate the percent of net sales by market geography for fiscal years 2024 and 2023: The table below includes net sales by market geography for each of our segments for fiscal years 2024 and 2023: (1) U.S. includes the United States and U.S. territories. (2) Non-U.S. developed markets include Japan, Australia, New Zealand, Korea, Canada, and the countries within Western Europe. (3) Emerging markets include the countries of the Middle East, Africa, Latin America, Eastern Europe, and the countries of Asia that are not included in the non-U.S. developed markets, as defined above. (4) Includes historical operations and ongoing transition agreements from businesses the Company has exited or divested, which primarily includes the Company's ventilator product line and the Renal Care Solutions business. The increase in net sales for fiscal year 2024 was driven by growth in most businesses, including Surgical, Cranial & Spinal Technologies, Diabetes, and Cardiac Pacing, as well as strength in international markets. The net sales increase was partially offset by a $265 million one-time payment received in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2023 as a result of an intellectual property agreement, as further discussed in the Cardiovascular net sales section below. 33 Looking ahead, a number of macro-economic and geopolitical factors could negatively impact our business, including without limitation: • Competitive product launches and pricing pressure, geographic macro-economic risks including fluctuations in currency exchange rates, general price inflation, changes in interest rates, reimbursement challenges, impacts from changes in the mix of our product offerings, delays in product registration approvals, replacement cycle challenges, and supply chain challenges from time to time; • National and provincial tender pricing for certain products, particularly in China; • The sanctions and other measures being imposed in response to the Russia-Ukraine conflict are having and could continue to have impacts on revenue and supply chain. The financial impact of the conflict in fiscal year 2024, including on accounts receivable and inventory reserves, was not material. For fiscal year 2024, the business of the Company in these countries represented less than 1% of the Company's consolidated revenues and assets. Although the implications of this conflict are difficult to predict at this time, the ongoing conflict may increase pressure on the global economy and supply chains, resulting in increased future volatility risk for our business operations and performance. • Although the long-term implications of Israel's conflict are difficult to predict at this time, the financial and operational impact of the conflict in fiscal year 2024, including on accounts receivable and inventory reserves, was not material. As of April 26, 2024, the Company had 6 facilities and approximately 1,500 employees in Israel. For fiscal year 2024, the business of the Company in Israel represented less than 1% of the Company's consolidated revenues and assets. Cardiovascular Cardiovascular products include pacemakers, insertable cardiac monitors, cardiac resynchronization therapy devices, implantable cardioverter defibrillators, leads and delivery systems, electrophysiology catheters, products for the treatment of atrial fibrillation, information systems for the management of patients with Cardiac Rhythm & Heart Failure devices, products designed to reduce surgical site infections, coronary and peripheral stents and related delivery systems, balloons and related delivery systems, endovascular stent graft systems, heart valve replacement technologies, cardiac tissue ablation systems, and open heart and coronary bypass grafting surgical products. Cardiovascular also includes Care Management Services and Cath Lab Managed Services (CLMS) within the Cardiac Rhythm & Heart Failure division. Cardiovascular net sales for fiscal year 2024 were $11.8 billion, an increase of 3 percent as compared to fiscal year 2023. The net sales increase was primarily due to the strong performance of Micra, transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR), and Perfusion. The charts below illustrate the percent of Cardiovascular net sales by division for fiscal years 2024 and 2023: Cardiac Rhythm & Heart Failure (CRHF) net sales increased 4 percent in fiscal year 2024 as compared to fiscal year 2023. The net sales increase was driven by continued adoption of Micra AV2 and Micra VR2 and growth from the launch of the PulseSelect pulsed field ablation (PFA) system and the Aurora extravascular implantable cardioverter defibrillator (EV-ICD) system. 34 Structural Heart & Aortic (SHA) net sales were flat in fiscal year 2024 as compared to fiscal year 2023. Net sales were impacted by the $265 million of revenue from a one-time payment received in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2023 as a result of the intellectual property agreement entered into with Edwards Lifesciences, offset by growth in TAVR, including strong growth in Western Europe and Japan from adoption of Evolut FX TAVR system, and in Cardiac Surgery driven by growth of Perfusion, particularly in the U.S. Coronary & Peripheral Vascular (CPV) net sales increased 4 percent in fiscal year 2024 as compared to fiscal year 2023. The net sales increase was driven by growth from guide catheters, balloons, as well as growth in Vascular Embolization products. In addition to the macro-economic and geopolitical factors described in the Net Sales section, looking ahead, we expect Cardiovascular could be affected by the following: • Continued global penetration of our Micra transcatheter pacing portfolio. • Continued acceptance and growth from the Azure XT and Azure S SureScan pacing systems and the 3830 lead. • Global adoption of Aurora Extravascular ICD. • Growth of the Cobalt and Crome portfolio of ICDs and CRT-Ds. • Growth of the CRT-P quadripolar pacing system. • Continued growth, adoption, and utilization of the TYRX Envelope for implantable devices. • Continued use and acceptance of Reveal LINQ and expansion of the LINQ II cardiac monitor. • Continued acceptance, adoption, and growth of our innovative portfolio of products in the electrophysiology (EP) segment, including the Arctic Front cryoablation system, PulseSelect PFA, and Affera mapping and ablation system. The PulseSelect PFA system received CE Mark in November 2023 was approved by the U.S. FDA in December 2023 and was the first PFA technology to receive U.S. FDA approval. • Continued acceptance and growth of the self-expanding CoreValve Evolut transcatheter aortic valve replacement platform. This includes Evolut PRO which provides enhanced hemodynamics, reliable delivery, enhanced durability, advanced sealing, and Evolut FX, a system designed to improve the overall procedural experience through enhancements in deliverability, implant visibility, and deployment stability. The Evolut FX+ TAVR system maintains the valve performance benefits of the legacy Evolut TAVR platform and is designed to facilitate coronary access. The system was approved by the U.S. FDA in March 2024. • Market acceptance and reimbursement for the Symplicity Spyral renal denervation system, also known as the Symplicity blood pressure procedure, for the treatment of hypertension. The Symplicity blood pressure procedure was approved by the U.S. FDA in November 2023. • Continued acceptance and growth of the Onyx Frontier DES platform. Onyx Frontier is a DES that introduces an enhanced delivery system and is used for complex percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). • Acceptance and growth of IN.PACT 018 drug-coated balloons (DCB). IN.PACT 018 adds to the existing IN.PACT Admiral DCB portfolio and is used to treat femoropopliteal disease. • Our ability to meet growing demand for our existing products and to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval of and commercialize the products within our pipeline. Neuroscience Neuroscience's products include various spinal implants, bone graft substitutes, biologic products, image-guided surgery and intra-operative imaging systems, robotic guidance systems used in the robot-assisted spine procedures, and systems that incorporate advanced energy surgical instruments. Neuroscience's products also focus on therapies to treat the diseases of the vasculature in and around the brain, including coils, neurovascular stents, and flow diversion products, as well as products to treat ear, nose, and throat (ENT), and the treatment of overactive bladder and urinary retention. Neuroscience also manufactures products related to implantable neurostimulation therapies and drug delivery systems for the treatment of chronic pain, movement disorders, and epilepsy. Neuroscience’s net sales for fiscal year 2024 were $9.4 billion, an increase of 5 percent as compared to fiscal year 2023. The net sales increase was primarily due to growth in Cranial & Spinal Technologies and ENT. 35 The graphs below illustrate the percent of Neuroscience net sales by division for fiscal years 2024 and 2023: Cranial & Spinal Technologies (CST) net sales for fiscal year 2024 increased 7 percent as compared to fiscal year 2023. The net sales increase was driven by growth of AiBLE spinal ecosystem capital and Core Spine and Biologics product pull-through. Specialty Therapies (Specialty) net sales for fiscal year 2024 increased 3 percent as compared to fiscal year 2023. The net sales increase was driven by growth in ENT. Neuromodulation (NM) net sales for fiscal year 2024 increased 3 percent as compared to fiscal year 2023. The net sales increase was driven by growth within Brain Modulation, including growth from the Western European launch of the Percept RC neurostimulator, as well as Pain Stim growth in the U.S. In addition to the macro-economic and geopolitical factors described in the Net Sales section, looking ahead we expect Neuroscience could be affected by the following: • Continued adoption and growth of our integrated solutions through the AiBLE offering, which integrates spinal implants with enabling technologies (StealthStation, O-arm Imaging Systems, and Midas), Mazor robotics, and UNiD Adaptive Spine Intelligence AI-driven technology for surgical planning and personalized spinal implants. • Market acceptance and continued global adoption of innovative new spine products and procedural solutions within our CST operating unit, such as Catalyft PL, ModuLeX, CD Horizon Voyager System, and our Infinity OCT System, as well as continued growth from Titan spine titanium interbody implants with Nanolock technology. • Continued growth of Pipeline Embolization Devices, endovascular treatments for large or giant wide-necked brain aneurysms. • Continued acceptance and growth of the Solitaire X revascularization device for treatment of acute ischemic stroke and our React Catheter and Riptide aspiration system. • Continued acceptance and growth of our Pelvic Health therapies, including our InterStim therapy with InterStim X and InterStim II recharge-free neurostimulators and InterStim Micro rechargeable neurostimulator for patients suffering from overactive bladder, (non-obtrusive) urinary retention, and chronic fecal incontinence, • Continued acceptance and growth of our ENT therapies, including capital equipment sales of the Stealth Station ENT surgical navigation system and intraoperative NIM nerve monitoring system, and the Propel sinus implants used in the treatment of chronic rhinosinusitis. • Continued acceptance and growth from spinal cord stimulation (SCS) therapy for treating chronic pain and Diabetic Peripheral Neuropathy (DPN) on the Intellis rechargeable neurostimulator and Vanta recharge-free neurostimulator. The Inceptiv closed-loop rechargeable SCS received U.S. FDA approval in April 2024. 36 • Continued acceptance and growth of our Percept family of deep brain stimulation (DBS) devices with proprietary BrainSense technology for objectifying and personalizing the treatment of Parkinson's Disease, epilepsy, and other movement disorders. • Our ability to meet growing demand for our existing products and to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval of and commercialize the products within our pipeline, which include hemorrhagic stroke intravascular device and our next-generation spine enabling technologies. Medical Surgical Medical Surgical’s products span the entire continuum of patient care from diagnosis to recovery, with a focus on diseases within thoracic, colorectal, gynecology, bariatric, hernia, and preventable complications. The products include those for advanced and general surgical products, surgical stapling devices, vessel sealing instruments, wound closure, electrosurgery products, hernia mechanical devices, mesh implants, advanced ablation, interventional lung, airway products, and sensors and monitors for pulse oximetry, capnography, level of consciousness and cerebral oximetry. Medical Surgical’s net sales for fiscal year 2024 were $8.4 billion, an increase of 5 percent as compared to fiscal year 2023. The net sales increase was primarily driven by strength across both Surgical & Endoscopy and Acute Care & Monitoring. The charts below illustrate the percent of Medical Surgical net sales by division for fiscal years 2024 and 2023: Surgical & Endoscopy (SE) net sales for fiscal year 2024 increased 6 percent as compared to fiscal year 2023. The net sales increase was predominantly attributable to growth in Advanced Surgical Technologies and General Surgical Technologies, primarily driven by supply expansion, as well as continued growth in Advanced Energy, Wound Management, Electrosurgery, GI Genius, and EndoFlip. Acute Care & Monitoring (ACM) net sales for fiscal year 2024 increased 4 percent as compared to fiscal year 2023. The net sales increase was primarily driven by growth in Nellcor pulse oximetry products and McGRATH MAC video laryngoscopes. In addition to the macro-economic and geopolitical factors described in the Net Sales section, looking ahead we expect Medical Surgical could be affected by the following: • Acceptance and continued growth of Open-to-MIS (minimally invasive surgery) techniques and tools through our efforts to transition open surgery to MIS. Open-to-MIS initiative focuses on capturing the market opportunity that exists in transitioning open procedures to MIS, whether through traditional MIS, advanced instrumentation, or robotics. Through our approach, in parallel, we also expand our presence and optimize open surgery in current open surgery markets. • Continued global acceptance and future growth of powered stapling and energy platform. 37 • Our ability to execute ongoing strategies addressing the near-term pressures to bariatric surgery procedure volumes in the U.S. from pharmaceuticals, and growth of surgical soft tissue robotics procedures in the U.S. • Our ability to create markets and drive products and procedures into emerging markets with our high quality and cost-effective surgical products designed for customers in emerging markets. • Continued acceptance and growth in patient monitoring and airway management. Key products in this area include Microstream Capnography, Nellcor pulse oximetry system with OxiMax technology, Shiley tracheostomy and endotracheal tubes, and McGRATH MAC video laryngoscopes. • Acceptance of less invasive standards of care in chronic and colorectal, as well as hepatology products, including products that span the care continuum from diagnostics to therapeutics. Recently launched products include GI Genius. • Expanding the use of less invasive treatments and furthering our commitment to improving options for women with abnormal uterine bleeding. Our expanded and strengthened surgical offerings complement our global gynecology business. • Global adoption of robotic-assisted surgery and installations of Hugo robotic assisted surgery (RAS) system for urologic, bariatric, gynecologic, hernia, and general surgery procedures. This includes continued integration and adoption of Touch Surgery Enterprise with the first artificial intelligence powered surgical videos and analytics platform to make it easier to train and discover new techniques within the robotics platform. The Hugo RAS system, which received CE Mark in October 2021, as well as secured additional regulatory approvals outside the U.S., is designed to help reduce unwanted variability, improve patient outcomes, and, by extension, lower per procedure cost. • Our ability to meet growing demand for our existing products and to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval of and commercialize the products within our pipeline, which include our Hugo RAS system in the U.S., the adoption of AI in Endoscopy, Signia powered stapling devices, and our next-gen Ligasure and Sonicision vessel sealing devices. Diabetes Diabetes' products include insulin pumps, continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) systems, and consumables. Diabetes' sales for fiscal year 2024 were $2.5 billion, an increase of 10 percent as compared to fiscal year 2023. The increase in net sales was primarily driven by strong international growth as a result of the continued international expansion of the MiniMed 780G insulin pump system and integrated CGM. The launch of the MiniMed 780G insulin pump system in the U.S., during the first quarter of fiscal year 2024, also contributed to the net sales growth. In addition to the macro-economic and geopolitical factors described in the Net Sales section, looking ahead we expect Diabetes could be affected by the following: • Continued acceptance and growth for the MiniMed 780G insulin pump system, which is powered by SmartGuard technology and features the added benefits of meal detection technology that automatically adjusts and corrects sugar levels every five minutes. The global adoption of our Automated Insulin Delivery (AID) systems has resulted in strong sensor attachment rates. The MiniMed 780G insulin pump system with the Guardian 4 Sensor was approved by the U.S. FDA in late April 2023. The MiniMed 780G insulin pump system with Simplera Sync received CE Mark in early January 2024. • Continued acceptance and growth of the Guardian Connect CGM system, which displays glucose information directly to a smartphone to provide patients access to their glucose levels seamlessly and discretely. The Guardian Connect CGM system is available on both Apple iOS and Android devices. • Market acceptance and growth of our InPen smart pen system, which allows users to have their Medtronic CGM readings in real-time alongside insulin dose information, all in one view. • Continued pump, CGM, and consumable competition in an expanding global market. • Changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs, along with additional payor coverage on insulin pumps. • Our ability to meet growing demand for our existing products and to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval of and commercialize the products within our pipeline, including our next-generation sensor Simplera, which has been submitted for approval to the U.S. FDA and received CE Mark in September 2023. 38 COSTS AND EXPENSES The following is a summary of cost of products sold, research and development, and selling, general, and administrative expenses as a percent of net sales: Cost of Products Sold Cost of products sold for fiscal year 2024 was $11.2 billion as compared to $10.7 billion for fiscal year 2023. The increase in cost of products sold as a percentage of net sales was primarily attributable to increased labor and direct material manufacturing costs, predominantly due to inflationary pressures, as well as $70 million of inventory write-downs associated with our February 2024 decision to exit our ventilator product line. For additional information about the ventilator inventory write-down, refer to Note 3 of the consolidated financial statements in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Research and Development Expense We remain committed to deliver the best possible experiences for patients, physicians, and caregivers we serve; to create technologies that expand what’s possible across the human body to transform lives; to turn data and insights into real action to serve patient needs, improving care; and to expand healthcare access and deliver positive outcomes. Research and development expense was $2.7 billion for fiscal years 2024 and 2023. Selling, General, and Administrative Expense Our goal is to continue to leverage selling, general, and administrative expense management initiatives. Selling, general, and administrative expense primarily consists of salaries and wages, other administrative costs, such as professional fees and marketing expenses, certain acquisition and divestiture-related costs, and restructuring associated expenses. Selling, general, and administrative expense for fiscal year 2024 was $10.7 billion as compared to $10.4 billion for fiscal year 2023. The increase in selling, general, and administrative expense is primarily due to reduced incentive performance in the prior year. The following is a summary of other costs and expenses (income): Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization of intangible assets includes the amortization expense of our definite-lived intangible assets, consisting of purchased patents, trademarks, tradenames, customer relationships, purchased technology, and other intangible assets. 39 Restructuring Charges, Net In fiscal year 2024, restructuring costs primarily related to employee termination benefits and facility consolidations to support cost reduction initiatives. In fiscal year 2023, restructuring charges primarily related to the Enterprise Excellence and Simplification restructuring programs, both of which were substantially completed as of the end of fiscal year 2023. Enterprise Excellence was designed to leverage the Company’s global size and scale to focus on global operations, and functional and commercial optimization, and had total cumulative pre-tax charges of $1.8 billion. Simplification was designed to focus the organization on accelerating innovation, enhancing customer experience, driving revenue growth and winning market share, and had total cumulative pre-tax charges of $0.5 billion. In addition, in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2023, the Company incurred $0.3 billion of restructuring charges primarily related to employee termination benefits to support cost reduction initiatives. These charges were incremental to charges incurred under our Enterprise Excellence and Simplification programs noted above. For additional information about our restructuring programs, refer to Note 4 of the consolidated financial statements in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Certain Litigation Charges, Net We classify specified certain litigation charges and gains related to significant legal matters as certain litigation charges, net in the consolidated statements of income. For additional information, refer to Note 18 of the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net primarily includes royalty expense, currency remeasurement and derivative gains and losses, Puerto Rico excise taxes, changes in the fair value of contingent consideration, certain acquisition and-divestiture related items, income from funded research and development arrangements, and commitments to the Medtronic Foundation and Medtronic LABS. The change in other operating expense (income), net was largely driven by an increase in acquisition and divestiture-related expenses in fiscal year 2024. In fiscal year 2024, there were $369 million of charges related to the Company's decision to exit the ventilator product line in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2024, which primarily included intangible asset impairments of $295 million and other charges for contract cancellation costs and severance. Fiscal year 2023 included non-cash charges of $136 million, primarily related to impairments of goodwill and changes in the carrying value of the disposal group, as a result of the April 1, 2023 sale of half of the Company's RCS business. Also contributing to the increase in acquisition and divestiture related expenses was a change in the fair value of contingent consideration, which resulted in $156 million of expense in fiscal year 2024 as compared to $24 million of income in fiscal year 2023. The change in other operating expense (income), net was also driven by the net currency impact of remeasurement expense and our hedging programs, which resulted in a net gain of $68 million combined for fiscal year 2024 as compared to a net gain of $465 million for fiscal year 2023, partially offset by a decrease of $94 million in Puerto Rico Excise Taxes. As a result of newly enacted tax legislation in Puerto Rico, the Company is no longer subject to Puerto Rico Excise Tax, but is now subject to a higher withholding tax, which is recorded in income tax provision in the consolidated statements of income. Fiscal year 2023 also included $70 million in commitments to the Medtronic Foundation and Medtronic LABS. Additional information regarding the acquisition and divestiture-related charges is described in Note 3 of the consolidated financial statements in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other Non-Operating Income, Net Other non-operating income, net includes the non-service component of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit cost, investment gains and losses, and interest income. The decrease in other non-operating income, net for fiscal year 2024 is primarily attributable to an increase in net losses on our minority investment portfolio, partially offset by an increase in interest income driven by higher returns on cash and cash equivalents and investments. Net losses on minority investments were $308 million for fiscal year 2024 as compared to a net gain of $33 million for fiscal year 2023. Interest income was $597 million and $386 million for fiscal year 2024 and 2023, respectively. Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net includes interest incurred on our outstanding borrowings, amortization of debt issuance costs and debt premiums or discounts, amortization of amounts excluded from the effectiveness assessment of certain net investment hedges, and charges recognized in connection with the early redemption of senior notes. The increase in interest expense, net for fiscal year 2024 was primarily driven by increased rates on our global liquidity structures, the impact of higher coupons on Senior Notes issued in the second quarter of fiscal year 2023, and the higher outstanding commercial paper balance. Partially offsetting the increase for fiscal year 2024 was $197 million in after-tax unrealized gains representing amounts excluded from the effectiveness assessment of certain net investment hedges as compared to $107 million for fiscal year 2023. Also partially offsetting the increase in interest expense, net was the $53 million charge incurred as a result of the early redemption of approximately $2.3 billion of senior notes during the first quarter of fiscal year 2023. 40 INCOME TAXES The Israeli Central-Lod District Court issued its decision in Medtronic Ventor Technologies Ltd (Ventor) v. Kfar Saba Assessing Office in June 2023. The court determined that there was a deemed taxable transfer of intellectual property. As a result, the Company recorded a $187 million income tax charge during fiscal year 2024 and filed an appeal with the Supreme Court of Israel. Our effective tax rate for fiscal year 2024 was 23.4 percent, as compared to 29.5 percent in fiscal year 2023. The decrease in our effective tax rate primarily relates to the decrease in certain tax adjustments discussed below which is partially offset by an increase in Puerto Rico withholding taxes and year-over-year changes in operational results by jurisdiction. Our Non-GAAP Nominal Tax Rate for fiscal year 2024 was 16.0 percent, as compared to 13.8 percent in fiscal year 2023. The increase in our Non-GAAP Nominal Tax Rate primarily relates to an increase in Puerto Rico withholding taxes and year-over-year changes in operational results by jurisdiction, inclusive of the operational tax costs and benefits discussed below. During fiscal year 2024, we recognized $19 million of operational tax costs. The operational tax costs included a $16 million cost from the impact of stock-based compensation, and a $3 million net cost associated with the resolution of certain income tax audits, finalization of certain tax returns, and changes to uncertain tax position reserves. During fiscal year 2023, we recognized $110 million of operational tax benefits. The operational tax benefits included an $11 million cost from the impact of stock-based compensation, and a $121 million benefit associated with the resolution of certain income tax audits, finalization of certain tax returns, changes to uncertain tax position reserves, and changes to certain deferred income tax balances. An increase in our Non-GAAP Nominal Tax Rate of one percent would result in an additional income tax provision for fiscal years 2024 and 2023 of approximately $83 million and $82 million, respectively. Certain Tax Adjustments During fiscal year 2024, the net cost from certain tax adjustments of $299 million, recognized in income tax provision in the consolidated statement of income, included the following: • A cost of $187 million associated with a reserve adjustment related to the Israeli Central-Lod District Court decision with respect to a deemed taxable transfer of intellectual property. • A cost of $124 million related to a change in valuation allowance on previously recorded net operating losses. • A benefit of $95 million related to a Swiss Cantonal tax rate change on previously recorded deferred tax assets. • A cost of $50 million associated with the amortization of the previously established deferred tax assets from intercompany intellectual property transactions. • A cost of $33 million associated with a change in the Company’s permanent reinvestment assertion on certain historical earnings. During fiscal year 2023, the net cost from certain tax adjustments of $910 million, recognized in income tax provision in the consolidated statement of income, included the following: • A net cost of $764 million associated with a reserve adjustment that was a direct result of the U.S. Tax Court opinion, issued in August 2022, on the prior year previously disclosed litigation regarding the allocation of income between Medtronic, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiary operating in Puerto Rico. • A cost of $55 million related to the disallowance of certain interest deductions. 41 • A cost of $30 million related to the change in reporting currency for certain carryover attributes. • A cost of $28 million associated with the amortization of the previously established deferred tax assets from intercompany intellectual property transactions. • A net cost of $33 million primarily associated with the sale of half of the Company’s RCS business. Certain tax adjustments will affect the comparability of our operating results between periods. Therefore, we consider these Non-GAAP Adjustments. Refer to the "Executive Level Overview" section of this Management's Discussion and Analysis for further discussion of these adjustments. The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) published Pillar Two Model Rules defining the global minimum tax, which calls for the taxation of large multinational corporations at a minimum rate of 15% in each jurisdiction in which the group operates. A number of countries, including Ireland, have enacted legislation to implement the core elements of Pillar Two, which will be effective for the Company in fiscal year 2025. The Company is continuing to evaluate the potential impacts of proposed and enacted legislative changes as new guidance becomes available. There are no impacts of this global minimum tax in the consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended April 26, 2024. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES We are currently in a strong financial position, and we believe our balance sheet and liquidity as of April 26, 2024 provide us with flexibility, and our cash, cash equivalents, and current investments, along with our credit facility and related commercial paper programs will satisfy our foreseeable operating needs. Our liquidity and capital structure are evaluated regularly within the context of our annual operating and strategic planning processes. We consider the liquidity necessary to fund our operations, which includes working capital needs, investments in research and development, property, plant, and equipment, and other operating costs. We also consider capital allocation alternatives that balance returning value to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases, satisfying maturing debt, and acquiring businesses and technology. Summary of Cash Flows The following is a summary of cash provided by (used in) operating, investing, and financing activities, the effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents, and the net change in cash and cash equivalents: Operating Activities The $748 million increase in net cash provided was primarily driven by an increase in cash collected from customers due to an increase in sales. The increase in net cash was partially offset by timing of payments to vendors, as well as an increase in cash paid for interest and litigation. For more information on litigation payments, refer to Note 18 of the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Investing Activities The $1.1 billion decrease in net cash used was primarily attributable to a decrease in cash paid for acquisitions of $1.7 billion, partially offset by an increase in net purchases of investments of $136 million and cash paid for additions of property, plant, and equipment of $128 million. For more information on the acquisitions, refer to Note 3 of the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Financing Activities There was a $510 million decrease in net cash used primarily due to proceeds from commercial paper in the current year and prior year net debt repayments, partially offset by increased share repurchases. In the current period, there was an increase in commercial paper that was issued and outstanding at year-end of $1.1 billion. This increase in cash provided by financing activities was offset by an increase in share repurchases of $1.5 billion. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2023, the Company issued two tranches of USD-denominated Senior Notes resulting in cash proceeds of approximately $2.0 billion, net of discounts and issuance costs. The Company used the net proceeds to repay in full the ¥297 billion Fiscal 2023 Loan Agreement discussed below for $2.3 billion of total consideration. In the second quarter of fiscal year 2023, the Company issued four tranches of Euro-denominated Senior Notes for approximately $3.4 billion. The Company used a portion of the net proceeds to repay at maturity €750 million of Medtronic Global Holdings S.C.A 42 (Medtronic Luxco) Senior Notes for $772 million of total consideration in December 2022 and €2.8 billion of Medtronic Luxco Senior Notes for $2.9 billion of total consideration in March 2023. In the first quarter of fiscal year 2023, the Company issued short-term borrowings of approximately $2.3 billion under the Fiscal 2023 Loan Agreement and used the proceeds to fund the early redemption of senior notes for total consideration of $2.3 billion. For more information on the issuance and redemption of senior notes and the Term Loan, refer to the Debt and Capital section. Debt and Capital Our capital structure consists of equity and interest-bearing debt. We primarily utilize unsecured senior debt obligations to meet our financing needs and, to a lesser extent, bank borrowings. From time to time, we may repurchase our outstanding debt obligations in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions. Total debt at April 26, 2024 was $25.0 billion, as compared to $24.4 billion at April 28, 2023. The increase in total debt was driven by commercial paper outstanding of $1.1 billion, partially offset by fluctuations in exchange rates. In May 2022, we entered into a term loan agreement (Fiscal 2023 Loan Agreement) with Mizuho Bank, Ltd. for an aggregate principal amount of up to ¥300 billion with a term of 364 days. In May and June 2022, Medtronic Luxco borrowed an aggregate of ¥297 billion, or approximately $2.3 billion, of the term loan, under the Fiscal 2023 Loan Agreement. The Company used the net proceeds of the borrowings to fund the early redemption of $1.9 billion of Medtronic Inc. Senior Notes for $1.9 billion of total consideration, and $368 million of Medtronic Luxco Senior Notes for $376 million of total consideration. The Company recognized a total loss on debt extinguishment of $53 million within interest expense, net in the consolidated statements of income during fiscal year 2023, which primarily included cash premiums and accelerated amortization of deferred financing costs and debt discounts and premiums. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2023, the Company repaid the term loan in full, including interest. In September 2022, we issued four tranches of Euro-denominated Senior Notes with an aggregate principal of €3.5 billion, with maturities ranging from fiscal year 2026 to 2035, resulting in cash proceeds of approximately $3.4 billion, net of discounts and issuance costs. The Company used the net proceeds to repay at maturity €750 million of 0.000% Medtronic Luxco Senior Notes for $772 million of total consideration in December 2022 and €1.5 billion of 0.375% Medtronic Luxco Senior Notes and €1.25 billion of 0.000% Medtronic Luxco Senior Notes for $2.9 billion of total consideration in March 2023. In March 2023, Medtronic Luxco issued two tranches of USD-denominated Senior Notes with an aggregate principal of $2.0 billion, with maturities ranging from 2028 to 2033, resulting in cash proceeds of approximately $2.0 billion, net of discounts and issuance costs. The Company used the net proceeds supplemented by additional cash to repay the ¥297 billion Fiscal 2023 Loan Agreement discussed above for $2.3 billion of total consideration. Subsequent to year-end, on June 3, 2024, Medtronic Inc. issued four tranches of EUR-denominated Senior Notes with an aggregate principal of €3.0 billion, with maturities ranging from fiscal year 2030 to 2054, resulting in cash proceeds of approximately $3.2 billion, net of discounts and issuance costs. In anticipation of the Euro-denominated debt issuance, the Company entered into forward currency exchange rate contracts to manage the exposure to exchange rate movements. These contracts were settled in conjunction with the issuance of the June 2024 Notes. We repurchase our ordinary shares on occasion as part of our focus on returning value to our shareholders. In March 2019, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of $6.0 billion of the Company's ordinary shares. In March 2024, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an incremental $5.0 billion of the Company's ordinary shares. There is no specific time period associated with these repurchase authorizations. During fiscal years 2024 and 2023, we repurchased a total of 25 million and 6 million shares, respectively, under these programs at an average price of $83.04 and $91.31, respectively. At April 26, 2024, we had approximately $5.3 billion remaining under the share repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors. For more information on credit arrangements, see Note 6 of the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Liquidity Our liquidity sources at April 26, 2024 included $1.3 billion of cash and cash equivalents and $6.7 billion of current investments. Additionally, we maintain commercial paper programs and a Credit Facility. Our investments primarily include available-for-sale debt securities, including U.S. and non-U.S. government and agency securities, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed securities, certificates of deposit, and other asset-backed securities. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding fair value measurements. We maintain multicurrency commercial paper programs for short-term financing, which allow us to issue unsecured commercial paper notes on a private placement basis up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of $3.5 billion. At April 26, 2024 and April 28, 43 2023, we had $1.1 billion and no commercial paper outstanding, respectively. The issuance of commercial paper reduces the amount of credit available under our existing line of credit, as explained below. We also have a $3.5 billion five-year syndicated credit facility (Credit Facility), which expires in December 2028. At each anniversary date of the Credit Facility, we can request a one-year extension of the maturity date. The Credit Facility provides backup funding for the commercial paper programs and may also be used for general corporate purposes. The Credit Facility provides us with the ability to increase our borrowing capacity by an additional $1.0 billion at any time during the term of the agreement. At April 26, 2024 and April 28, 2023, no amounts were outstanding under the Credit Facility. Interest rates on advances of our Credit Facility are determined by a pricing matrix based on our long-term debt ratings assigned by Standard & Poor's Ratings Services (S&P) and Moody's Investors Service (Moody’s). Facility fees are payable on the Credit Facility and are determined in the same manner as the interest rates. We are in compliance with all covenants related to the Credit Facility. The following table is a summary of our S&P and Moody's long-term debt ratings and short-term debt ratings: (1)    Agency ratings are subject to change, and there may be no assurance that an agency will continue to provide ratings and/or maintain its current ratings. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating agency, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. S&P and Moody's long-term debt ratings and short-term debt ratings at April 26, 2024 were unchanged as compared to the ratings at April 28, 2023. We do not expect the S&P and Moody's ratings to have a significant impact on our liquidity or future flexibility to access additional liquidity given our balance sheet, Credit Facility, and related commercial paper programs. 44 Contractual Obligations and Cash Requirements We have future contractual obligations and other minimum commercial commitments that are entered into in the normal course of business, some of which are recorded in our consolidated balance sheet. We believe our off-balance sheet arrangements do not have a material current or anticipated future effect on our consolidated earnings, financial position, and/or cash flows. Presented below is a summary of our off-balance sheet contractual obligations and other minimum commercial commitments at April 26, 2024, as well as long-term contractual obligations reflected in the balance sheet at April 26, 2024. (1) Includes commitments related to the funding of minority investments, estimated milestone payments, and royalty obligations. While it is not certain if and/or when payments will be made, the maturity dates included in the table reflect our best estimates. (2) Includes the contractual interest payments on our outstanding debt and excludes the impacts of debt premium and discount amortization. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on our debt agreements. (3) Includes inventory purchase commitments, research and development, and other arrangements that are legally binding and specify minimum purchase quantities or spending amounts. These purchase commitments do not exceed our projected requirements and are in the normal course of business. Excludes open purchase orders with a remaining term of less than one year. (4) Excludes defined benefit plan obligations, guarantee obligations, uncertain tax positions, non-current tax liabilities, and litigation settlements for which we cannot make a reliable estimate of the period of cash settlement. For further information, see Notes 13, 15, and 18 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. (5) Includes the current and non-current portion of our contractual maturities of debt, excluding deferred financing costs and debt discounts, net. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on our debt agreements. (6) Includes the fair value of our current and non-current portions of contingent consideration. While it is not certain if and/or when payments will be made, the maturity dates included in this table reflect our best estimates. (7) Represents the tax obligations associated with the transition tax that resulted from U.S. Tax Reform. The transition tax will be paid over an eight-year period and will not accrue interest. In the normal course of business, we periodically enter into agreements that require us to indemnify customers or suppliers for specific risks, such as claims for injury or property damage arising as a result of our products or the negligence of our personnel or claims alleging that our products infringe third-party patents or other intellectual property. Our maximum exposure under these indemnification provisions is unable to be estimated, and we have not accrued any liabilities within our consolidated financial statements or included any indemnification provisions in the table above. Historically, we have not experienced significant losses on these types of indemnification agreements. Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K provides information regarding amounts we have accrued related to legal matters. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we record a liability in our consolidated financial statements for these matters when a loss is known or considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Actual settlements may be different than estimated and could have a material effect on our consolidated earnings, financial position, and/or cash flows. We record tax liabilities in our consolidated financial statements for amounts that we expect to repatriate from subsidiaries (to the extent the repatriation would be subject to tax); however, no tax liabilities are recorded for amounts we consider to be permanently reinvested. We expect to have access to the majority of our cash flows in the future. In addition, we continue to evaluate our legal entity structure supporting our business operations, and to the extent such evaluation results in a change to our overall business structure, we may be required to accrue for additional tax obligations. 45 Beyond the contractual obligations and other minimum commercial commitments outlined above, we have recurring cash requirements arising from the normal operation of our business that include capital expenditures, research and developments costs, and other operational costs. We believe our balance sheet and liquidity provide us with flexibility, and our cash, cash equivalents, current investments, Credit Facility and related commercial paper programs, as well as our ability to generate operating cash flows, will satisfy our current and future contractual obligations and cash requirements. We regularly review our capital needs and consider various investing and financing alternatives to support our requirements. ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS Information regarding acquisitions and disposition activity is included in Note 3 of the consolidated financial statements in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES We have used various accounting policies to prepare the consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our significant accounting policies are disclosed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements, in conformity with U.S. GAAP, requires us to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses. These estimates reflect our best judgment about economic and market conditions and the potential effects on the valuation and/or carrying value of assets and liabilities based upon relevant information available. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our critical accounting estimates include the following: Revenue Recognition The Company sells its products through direct sales representatives and independent distributors. Additionally, a portion of the Company's revenue is generated from consignment inventory maintained at hospitals and royalty and intellectual property arrangements. The Company recognizes revenue when control is transferred to the customer. For products sold through direct sales representatives and independent distributors, control is transferred upon shipment or upon delivery, based on the contract terms and legal requirements. For consignment inventory, control is transferred when the product is used or implanted. Payment terms vary depending on the country of sale, type of customer, and type of product. The amount of revenue recognized reflects sales rebates and returns, which are estimated based on sales terms, historical experience, and trend analysis. In estimating rebates, the Company considers the lag time between the point of sale and the payment of the rebate claim, the stated rebate rates, and other relevant information. The Company records adjustments to rebates and returns reserves as increases or decreases of revenue. Litigation Contingencies We are involved in a number of legal actions from time to time involving product liability, employment, intellectual property and commercial disputes, shareholder related matters, environmental proceedings, tax disputes, and governmental proceedings and investigations. The outcomes of legal actions are not within the Company's complete control and may not be known for prolonged periods of time. In some actions, the enforcement agencies or private claimants seek damages, as well as other civil or criminal remedies (including injunctions barring the sale of products that are the subject of the proceeding), that could require significant expenditures, result in lost revenues, or limit the Company's ability to conduct business in the applicable jurisdictions. Estimating probable losses from our litigation and governmental proceedings is inherently difficult, particularly when the matters are in early procedural stages, with incomplete scientific facts or legal discovery, involve unsubstantiated or indeterminate claims for damages, potentially involve penalties, fines, or punitive damages, or could result in a change in business practice. The Company records a liability in the consolidated financial statements on an undiscounted basis for loss contingencies when a loss is known or considered probable, and the amount may be reasonably estimated. If the reasonable estimate of a known or probable loss is a range, and no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other, the minimum amount of the range is accrued. If a loss is reasonably possible but not known or probable, and may be reasonably estimated, the estimated loss or range of loss is disclosed. Our significant legal proceedings are discussed in Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Income Tax Reserves We establish reserves when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, we believe that certain positions are likely to be challenged and that we may or may not prevail. Under U.S. GAAP, if we determine that a tax position is more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, based solely on the technical merits of the position, we recognize the benefit. We measure the benefit by determining the amount that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon settlement. We presume that all tax positions will be examined by a taxing authority with full knowledge of all relevant information. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. 46 We regularly monitor our tax positions and tax liabilities. We reevaluate the technical merits of our tax positions and recognize an uncertain tax benefit, or derecognize a previously recorded tax benefit, when there is (i) a completion of a tax audit, (ii) effective settlement of an issue, (iii) a change in applicable tax law including a tax case or legislative guidance, or (iv) the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations. These reserves are subject to a high degree of estimation and management judgment. Although we believe that we have adequately reserved for liabilities resulting from tax assessments by taxing authorities, positions taken by these tax authorities could have a material impact on our effective tax rate, consolidated earnings, financial position, and/or cash flows. Valuation of Intangible Assets and Goodwill When we acquire a business, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded at their respective fair values at the acquisition date. Goodwill is the excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair value of identified net assets of acquired businesses. Intangible assets primarily include patents, trademarks, tradenames, customer relationships, purchased technology, and in-process research and development. Determining the fair value of intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination requires us to make significant estimates. These estimates include the amount and timing of projected future cash flows of each project or technology, the discount rate used to discount those cash flows to present value, and the assessment of the asset’s life cycle. The estimates could be impacted by legal, technical, regulatory, economic, and competitive risks. The test for impairment of goodwill requires us to make several estimates related to projected future cash flows to determine the fair value of the goodwill reporting units. Our estimates associated with the goodwill impairment test are considered critical due to the amount of goodwill recorded on our consolidated balance sheets and the judgment required in determining fair value. We assess the impairment of goodwill at the reporting unit level annually as of the first day of the third quarter and whenever an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired. As a result of our operating segment realignments during the current fiscal year, additional impairment of goodwill tests were performed. The results of the tests are disclosed in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We also test definite-lived intangible assets for impairment when an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate the carrying amount of the assets or asset group may be impaired. We assess the impairment of indefinite-lived intangible assets annually in the third quarter and whenever an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired. Our tests for goodwill and intangible assets are based on future cash flows that require significant judgment with respect to future revenue and expense growth rates, appropriate discount rates, asset groupings, and other assumptions and estimates. The test for goodwill also utilizes revenue and earnings multiples using comparable public company information. We use estimates that are consistent with the highest and best use of the assets based on a market participant's view of the assets being evaluated. Actual results may differ from our estimates due to a number of factors including, among others, changes in competitive conditions, timing of regulatory approval, results of clinical trials, changes in worldwide economic conditions, and fluctuations in currency exchange rates. NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Information regarding new accounting pronouncements is included in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 47 SUPPLEMENTAL GUARANTOR FINANCIAL INFORMATION Medtronic plc and Medtronic Global Holdings S.C.A. (Medtronic Luxco), a wholly-owned subsidiary guarantor, each have provided full and unconditional guarantees of the obligations of Medtronic, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary issuer, under the Senior Notes (Medtronic Senior Notes) and full and unconditional guarantees of the obligations of Covidien International Finance S.A. (CIFSA), a wholly-owned subsidiary issuer, under the Senior Notes (CIFSA Senior Notes). The guarantees of the CIFSA Senior Notes are in addition to the guarantees of the CIFSA Senior Notes by Covidien Ltd. and Covidien Group Holdings Ltd., both of which are wholly-owned subsidiary guarantors of the CIFSA Senior Notes. Medtronic plc and Medtronic, Inc. each have provided a full and unconditional guarantee of the obligations of Medtronic Luxco under the Senior Notes (Medtronic Luxco Senior Notes). The following is a summary of these guarantees: Guarantees of Medtronic Senior Notes • Parent Company Guarantor - Medtronic plc • Subsidiary Issuer - Medtronic, Inc. • Subsidiary Guarantor - Medtronic Luxco Guarantees of Medtronic Luxco Senior Notes • Parent Company Guarantor - Medtronic plc • Subsidiary Issuer - Medtronic Luxco • Subsidiary Guarantor - Medtronic, Inc. Guarantees of CIFSA Senior Notes • Parent Company Guarantor - Medtronic plc • Subsidiary Issuer - CIFSA • Subsidiary Guarantors - Medtronic Luxco, Covidien Ltd., and Covidien Group Holdings Ltd. (CIFSA Subsidiary Guarantors) The following tables present summarized financial information for the fiscal year ended April 26, 2024 for the obligor groups of Medtronic and Medtronic Luxco Senior Notes, and CIFSA Senior Notes. The obligor group consists of the parent company guarantor, subsidiary issuer, and subsidiary guarantors for the applicable senior notes. The summarized financial information is presented after elimination of (i) intercompany transactions and balances among the guarantors and issuers and (ii) equity in earnings from and investments in any subsidiary that is a non-guarantor or issuer. The summarized results of operations information for the fiscal year ended April 26, 2024 was as follows: The summarized balance sheet information for the fiscal year ended April 26, 2024 was as follows: (1) The Medtronic Senior Notes and Medtronic Luxco Senior Notes obligor group consists of the following entities: Medtronic plc, Medtronic Luxco, and Medtronic, Inc. Refer to the guarantee summary above for further details. (2) The CIFSA Senior Notes obligor group consists of the following entities: Medtronic plc, Medtronic Luxco, CIFSA, and CIFSA Subsidiary Guarantors. Refer to the guarantee summary above for further details. (3) Includes receivables due from non-guarantor subsidiaries of $14.3 billion and $1.7 billion for Medtronic & Medtronic Luxco Senior Notes, and CIFSA Senior Notes, respectively. (4) Includes loans receivable due from non-guarantor subsidiaries of $5.2 billion and $19.1 billion for Medtronic & Medtronic Luxco Senior Notes, and CIFSA Senior Notes, respectively. (5) Includes payables due to non-guarantor subsidiaries of $21.8 billion and $42.1 billion for Medtronic & Medtronic Luxco Senior Notes, and CIFSA Senior Notes, respectively. (6) Includes loans payable due to non-guarantor subsidiaries of $7.7 billion and $7.7 billion for Medtronic & Medtronic Luxco Senior Notes, and CIFSA Senior Notes, respectively. 48