********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Investing in our securities involves a variety of risks and uncertainties, known and unknown, including, among others, those discussed below. Each of the following risks should be carefully considered, together with all the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and in our other filings with the SEC. Furthermore, additional risks and uncertainty not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. Our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flow and prospects could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks or uncertainties. Business and Operational Risks We operate in a highly competitive industry and we may be unable to compete effectively. We compete in both the therapeutic and diagnostic medical markets in more than 150 countries throughout the world. These markets are characterized by rapid change resulting from technological advances and scientific discoveries. In the product lines in which we compete, we face a range of competitors from large companies with multiple business lines to small, specialized manufacturers that offer a limited selection of niche products. Development by other companies of new or improved products, processes, technologies, or the introduction of reprocessed products or generic versions when our proprietary products lose their patent protection may make our existing or planned products less competitive. In addition, we face competition from providers of alternative medical therapies, such as pharmaceutical companies. We believe our ability to compete depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: • product performance and reliability, • product technology and innovation, • product quality and safety, • breadth of product lines, • product support services, • customer support, • cost-effectiveness and price, • reimbursement approval from healthcare insurance providers, and • changes to the regulatory environment. Competition may increase as additional companies enter our markets or modify their existing products to compete directly with ours. In addition, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations also may conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for discovery, research, clinical development and marketing of products similar to ours. These companies and institutions compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, as well as in acquiring necessary product technologies. From time to time we have lost, and may in the future lose, market share in connection with product problems, physician advisories, safety alerts and publications about our products, which highlights the importance of product quality, product efficacy and quality systems to our business. In the current environment of managed care, consolidation among healthcare providers, increased competition, declining reimbursement rates, and national tender pricing, as recently experienced in China, competitively priced product offerings are essential to our success. Further, our continued growth and success depend on our ability to develop, acquire and market new and differentiated products, technologies and intellectual property, and as a result we also face competition for marketing, distribution, and collaborative development agreements, establishing relationships with academic and research institutions and licenses to intellectual property. In order to continue to compete effectively, we must continue to create, invest 15 in or acquire advanced technology, incorporate this technology into our proprietary products, obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, and manufacture and successfully market our products. Given these factors, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete effectively or continue our level of success. The ongoing global COVID-19 pandemic has had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on certain aspects of our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The nature and extent of future impacts are highly uncertain and unpredictable. Our global operations and interactions with healthcare systems, providers and patients around the world expose us to risks associated with public health crises, including epidemics and pandemics such as COVID-19. In particular, the continuing preventative and precautionary measures that we and other businesses, communities, and governments have taken to mitigate the spread of the disease has led to restrictions on, disruptions in, and other related impacts on business and personal activities, including reduced customer demand for certain of our products and has resulted in many of our employees working remotely. We expect medical procedure rates to continue to vary by therapy and country, and could be impacted by regional COVID-19 case volumes, hospital and clinical occupancy and staffing levels, patient’s willingness to schedule deferrable procedures, travel restrictions, transportation limitations, quarantine restrictions, vaccine immunization rates, and new COVID-19 variants. While COVID-19 case volumes appear to be decreasing in the U.S and certain other countries as a result of higher vaccination rates, the global COVID-19 outlook remains uncertain as vaccination rates remain low in much of the world. Together with the preventative and precautionary measures being taken, as well as the corresponding need to adapt to new and improved methods of conducting business, such as increased remote monitoring, COVID-19 is having, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on certain aspects of our Company and business, including the demand for and supply of certain of our products, operations, supply chains and distribution systems, impacts or delays to product development milestones, clinical trials, or regulatory clearances and approval timing, and our ability to generate cash flow, and may have an adverse impact on our ability to access capital. Some of our products are more sensitive to reductions in deferrable and emergent medical procedures, and, as hospital systems prioritize treatment of COVID-19 patients and otherwise comply with government guidelines, certain medical procedures have been and may continue to be suspended or postponed. The Company has certain product lines that are in higher demand as a result of COVID-19 such as ventilators, pulse oximetry, capnography, advanced parameter monitoring, and extracorporeal life support products. It is not possible to predict the timing of deferrable medical procedures and, to the extent individuals and hospital systems de-prioritize, delay or cancel these procedures, or if unemployment or loss of insurance coverage adversely impacts an individual’s ability to pay for our products and services, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could continue to be negatively affected. Further, the COVID-19 pandemic has strained hospital systems around the world, resulting in adverse financial impacts to those systems that could result in reduced future expenditures for certain capital equipment and other products and services we provide, as well as potential disruption of product launches of our recently approved products. A number of our global suppliers, vendors, and distributors have been adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, including employee absenteeism. These impacts could impair our ability to move our products through distribution channels to end customers, and any such delay or shortage in the supply of components or materials may result in our inability to satisfy consumer demand for certain of our products in a timely manner or at all, which could harm our reputation, future sales and profitability. COVID-19 has impacted and may further impact the global economy and capital markets, including by negatively impacting demand for a number of our products, access to capital markets (including the commercial paper market), foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates, each of which may adversely impact our business and liquidity. We could experience loss of sales and profits due to delayed payments or insolvency of healthcare professionals, hospitals and other customers, suppliers and vendors facing liquidity issues. As a result, we may be compelled to take additional measures to preserve our cash flow. COVID-19 could adversely impact our ability to retain key employees and the continued service and availability of skilled personnel necessary to run our complex productions and operations, including our executive officers and other key members of our management team. While the impact of COVID-19 has had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, the nature and extent of such impact is highly uncertain and unpredictable, as we cannot predict with confidence the duration of the pandemic. Reduction or interruption in supply or other manufacturing difficulties may adversely affect our manufacturing operations and related product sales. The manufacture of our products requires the timely delivery of a sufficient amount of quality components and materials and is highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. We manufacture the majority of our products and procure important third-party services, such as sterilization services, at numerous facilities worldwide. We purchase many of 16 the components, raw materials and services needed to manufacture these products from numerous suppliers in various countries. We seek to maintain continuity of supply by use of multiple options for sourcing where possible. We have generally been able to obtain adequate supplies of such raw materials, components and services. However, for reasons of quality assurance, cost effectiveness, or availability, certain components, raw materials and services needed to manufacture our products are obtained from a sole supplier. Although we work closely with our suppliers to try to ensure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability, the supply of these components, raw materials and services may be interrupted or insufficient. In addition, due to the stringent regulations and requirements of regulatory agencies, including the U.S. FDA, regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources. Additionally, many regulatory agencies are imposing regulatory requirements on safe use of chemicals and their potential impact on health and the environment which also may impact supply constraints. Furthermore, the prices of commodities and other materials used in our products, which are often volatile and outside of our control, could adversely impact our supply. We use resins, other petroleum-based materials and pulp as raw materials in some of our products, and the prices of oil and gas also significantly affect our costs for freight and utilities. A reduction or interruption in supply, and an inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in a timely or cost-effective manner and could result in lost sales. Other disruptions in the manufacturing process or product sales and fulfillment systems for any reason, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, supplier facility shut-downs, defective raw materials, natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes or wildfires, property damage or facility closures from riots or public protests, and other environmental factors and the impact of epidemics or pandemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, and actions by businesses, communities and governments in response, could lead to launch delays, product shortage, unanticipated costs, lost revenues and damage to our reputation. For example, in the past we have experienced a global information technology systems interruption that affected our customer ordering, distribution, and manufacturing processes, and we have been adversely impacted by, and may continue to be adversely impacted by, the global COVID-19 pandemic and the responses of governments and of our partners, including suppliers, manufacturers, distributors and other businesses. Furthermore, any failure to identify and address manufacturing problems prior to the release of products to our customers could result in quality or safety issues. In addition, many of our products require sterilization before sale and several of our key products are manufactured or sterilized at a particular facility, with limited alternate facilities. If an event occurs that results in damage to or closure of one or more of such facilities, such as the damage caused by Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico in September 2017 or Illinois Environmental Protection Agency's decision to close a supplier's sterilization facility in February 2019, we may be unable to manufacture or sterilize the relevant products to the required quality specifications or at all. Because of the time required to approve and license a manufacturing or sterilization facility, a third-party may not be available on a timely basis to replace production capacity in the event manufacturing or sterilization capacity is lost. Our research and development efforts rely upon investments and investment collaborations, and we cannot guarantee that any previous or future investments or investment collaborations will be successful. Our mission is to provide a broad range of therapies to restore patients to fuller, healthier lives, which requires a wide variety of technologies, products and capabilities. The rapid pace of technological development in the medical industry and the specialized expertise required in different areas of medicine make it difficult for one company alone to develop a broad portfolio of technological solutions. In addition to internally generated growth through our research and development efforts, historically we have relied, and expect to continue to rely, upon investments and investment collaborations to provide us access to new technologies both in areas served by our existing businesses as well as in new areas. We expect to make future investments where we believe that we can stimulate the development or acquisition of new technologies and products to further our strategic objectives and strengthen our existing businesses. Investments and investment collaborations in and with medical technology companies are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that any of our previous or future investments or investment collaborations will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The continuing development of many of our products depends upon us maintaining strong relationships with healthcare professionals. If we fail to maintain our working relationships with healthcare professionals, many of our products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, which could cause a decline in our earnings and profitability. The research, development, marketing and sales of many of our new and improved products depends on our maintaining working relationships with healthcare professionals. We rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding the development, marketing and sale of our products. Physicians assist us as researchers, marketing and product consultants, inventors and public speakers. In addition, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, our access to these professionals has been limited at times, and travel restrictions, shutdowns and 17 similar measures have impacted our ability to maintain these relationships, thereby affecting our ability to develop, market and sell new and improved products. If we are unable to maintain strong relationships with these professionals, the development and marketing of our products could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Our substantial leverage and debt service obligations could adversely affect our business. At April 30, 2021, we had approximately $26.4 billion of debt, of which all is noncurrent except $11.0 million. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our substantial indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, regulatory and industry conditions, and placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged, • limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes, and • exposing us to greater interest rate risk since the interest rate on floating rate borrowings is variable. Our debt service obligations require us to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest and principal on indebtedness instead of for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion of our business, acquisitions, and ongoing capital expenditures, which could impede our growth. If our operating cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to service our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt financing or restructure our debt, which could harm our long-term business prospects. Our failure to comply with the terms of our revolving credit facility and other indebtedness could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. Failure to integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully, as well as liabilities or claims relating to such acquired businesses, could adversely affect our business. As part of our strategy to develop and identify new products and technologies, we have made several significant acquisitions in recent years, and may make additional acquisitions in the future. Our integration of the operations of acquired businesses requires significant efforts, including the coordination of information technologies, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing, and finance. These efforts result in additional expenses and involve significant amounts of management’s time that cannot then be dedicated to other projects. Our failure to manage and coordinate the growth of acquired companies successfully could also have an adverse impact on our business. Further, acquired businesses may have liabilities, or be subject to claims, litigation or investigations that we did not anticipate or which exceed our estimates at the time of the acquisition. In addition, we cannot be certain that the businesses we acquire will become profitable or remain so. Factors that will affect the success of our acquisitions include: • the presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the financial systems of acquired companies, • our ability or inability to integrate information technology systems of acquired companies in a secure and reliable manner, • liabilities, claims, litigation, investigations, or other adverse developments relating to acquired businesses or the business practices of acquired companies, including investigations by governmental entities, potential FCPA or product liability claims or other unanticipated liabilities, • any decrease in customer loyalty and product orders caused by dissatisfaction with the combined companies’ product lines and sales and marketing practices, including price increases, • our ability to retain key employees, and • the ability to achieve synergies among acquired companies, such as increasing sales of the integrated company’s products, achieving cost savings, and effectively combining technologies to develop new products. We also could experience negative effects on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows from acquisition-related charges, amortization of intangible assets and asset impairment charges. These effects, individually or in the aggregate, could cause a deterioration of our credit rating and result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense. 18 Legal and Regulatory Risks Climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change may materially adversely affect our financial condition and business operations. Climate change resulting from increased concentrations of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere could present risks to our future operations from natural disasters and extreme weather conditions, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, wildfires or flooding. Such extreme weather conditions could pose physical risks to our facilities and disrupt operation of our supply chain and may impact operational costs. The impacts of climate change on global water resources may result in water scarcity, which could in the future impact our ability to access sufficient quantities of water in certain locations and result in increased costs. Concern over climate change could result in new legal or regulatory requirements designed to mitigate the effects of climate change on the environment. If such laws or regulations are more stringent than current legal or regulatory requirements, we may experience increased compliance burdens and costs to meet the regulatory obligations and may adversely affect raw material sourcing, manufacturing operations and the distribution of our products. We are subject to extensive and complex laws and governmental regulations and any adverse regulatory action may materially adversely affect our financial condition and business operations. Our medical devices and technologies, as well as our business activities, are subject to a complex set of regulations and rigorous enforcement, including by the U.S. FDA, U.S. Department of Justice, Health and Human Services-Office of the Inspector General, and numerous other federal, state, and non-U.S. governmental authorities. To varying degrees, each of these agencies requires us to comply with laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing and distribution of our products. As a part of the regulatory process of obtaining marketing clearance for new products and new indications for existing products, we conduct and participate in numerous clinical trials with a variety of study designs, patient populations, and trial endpoints. Unfavorable clinical data from existing or future clinical trials may adversely impact our ability to obtain product approvals, our position in, and share of, the markets in which we participate, and our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain or maintain marketing clearance for our new products or enhancements or modifications to existing products, and the failure to maintain approvals or obtain approval or clearance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Even if we are able to obtain approval or clearance, it may: • take a significant amount of time, • require the expenditure of substantial resources, • involve stringent clinical and pre-clinical testing, as well as increased post-market surveillance, • involve modifications, repairs or replacements of our products, and • limit the proposed uses of our products. Both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under the U.S. FDA and other applicable non-U.S. government agency regulations. For instance, many of our facilities and procedures and those of our suppliers are also subject to periodic inspections by the U.S. FDA to determine compliance with applicable regulations. The results of these inspections can include inspectional observations on the U.S. FDA’s Form-483, warning letters, or other forms of enforcement. If the U.S. FDA were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical products are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the U.S. FDA could ban such medical products, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical products, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such products, refuse to grant pending pre-market approval applications or require certificates of non-U.S governments for exports, and/or require us to notify health professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. The U.S. FDA and other non-U.S. government agencies may also assess civil or criminal penalties against us, our officers or employees and impose operating restrictions on a company-wide basis. The U.S. FDA may also recommend prosecution to the U.S. Department of Justice. Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively marketing and selling our products and limit our ability to obtain future pre-market clearances or approvals, and could result in a substantial modification to our business practices and operations. Furthermore, we occasionally receive subpoenas or other requests for information from state and federal governmental agencies, and while these investigations typically relate primarily to financial arrangements with healthcare providers, regulatory compliance and product promotional practices, we cannot predict the timing, outcome or impact of any such investigations. Any adverse outcome in one or more of these investigations could include the commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings, substantial fines, penalties, and/or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs and/or entry into Corporate Integrity Agreements (CIAs) with governmental agencies. In addition, resolution of any of these matters could involve the imposition of additional, costly compliance obligations. These potential consequences, as well as any adverse outcome from government investigations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 19 In addition, the U.S. FDA has taken the position that device manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products other than for the uses and indications set forth in the approved product labeling, and any failure to comply could subject us to significant civil or criminal exposure, administrative obligations and costs, and/or other potential penalties from, and/or agreements with, the federal government. Governmental regulations outside the U.S. have, and may continue to, become increasingly stringent and common. In the European Union, for example, a new Medical Device Regulation which became effective in May 2021, includes significant additional premarket and post-market requirements. Penalties for regulatory non-compliance could be severe, including fines and revocation or suspension of a company’s business license, mandatory price reductions and criminal sanctions. Future laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on us. Our failure to comply with laws and regulations relating to reimbursement of healthcare goods and services may subject us to penalties and adversely impact our reputation, business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our devices, products and therapies are purchased principally by hospitals or physicians that typically bill various third-party payers, such as governmental healthcare programs (e.g., Medicare, Medicaid and comparable non-U.S. programs), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. The ability of our customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for products and services from third-party payers is critical because it affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. As a result, our devices, products and therapies are subject to regulation regarding quality and cost by HHS, including the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), as well as comparable state and non-U.S. agencies responsible for reimbursement and regulation of health are goods and services, including laws and regulations related to kickbacks, false claims, self-referrals and healthcare fraud. Many states have similar laws that apply to reimbursement by state Medicaid and other funded programs as well as in some cases to all payers. In certain circumstances, insurance companies attempt to bring a private cause of action against a manufacturer for causing false claims. In addition, as a manufacturer of U.S. FDA-approved devices reimbursable by federal healthcare programs, we are subject to the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which requires us to annually report certain payments and other transfers of value we make to U.S.-licensed physicians or U.S. teaching hospitals. Any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us or our officers and employees to criminal and civil financial penalties. We are also subject to risks relating to changes in government and private medical reimbursement programs and policies, and changes in legal regulatory requirements in the U.S. and around the world. Implementation of further legislative or administrative reforms to these reimbursement systems, or adverse decisions relating to coverage of or reimbursement for our products by administrators of these systems, could have an impact on the acceptance of and demand for our products and the prices that our customers are willing to pay for them. We are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to our rights or the rights of others may result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impacting our ability to sell current or future products. We are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights and rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, tradenames, copyrights, trade secrets, and agreements (such as employee, non-disclosure and non-competition agreements) to protect our business and proprietary intellectual property. We also operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. Patent litigation can result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent our manufacture and sale of affected products or require us to pay significant royalties in order to continue to manufacture or sell affected products. At any given time, we are generally involved as both a plaintiff and a defendant in a number of patent infringement actions, the outcomes of which may not be known for prolonged periods of time. While it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent litigation, it is possible that the results of such litigation could require us to pay significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or that enforcement actions to protect our patent and proprietary rights against others could be unsuccessful, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. While we intend to defend against any threats to our intellectual property, our patents, trademarks, tradenames, copyrights, trade secrets or agreements (such as employee, non-disclosure and non-competition agreements) may not adequately protect our intellectual property. Further, pending patent applications may not result in patents being issued to us, patents issued to or licensed by us may be challenged or circumvented by competitors and such patents may be found invalid, unenforceable or too limited in scope to protect our technology or provide us with any competitive advantage. Third parties could obtain patents that may require us to negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and such licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. We also rely on non-disclosure and non-competition agreements with certain employees, consultants and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary rights. We cannot be certain that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or proprietary knowledge. 20 In addition, the laws of certain countries in which we market or manufacture some of our products do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S., which could make it easier for competitors to capture market position. Competitors also may harm our sales by designing products that substantially mirror the capabilities of our products or technology without infringing our intellectual property rights. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property in these countries, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Quality problems and product liability claims could lead to recalls or safety alerts, reputational harm, adverse verdicts or costly settlements, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Quality is extremely important to us and our customers due to the impact on patients, and the serious and potentially costly consequences of product failure. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture, and marketing of medical devices. In addition, many of our products are often used in intensive care settings with seriously ill patients and some of the medical devices we manufacture and sell are designed to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time or indefinitely. Component failures, manufacturing nonconformances, design defects, off-label use, or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information with respect to our products, if they were to occur, could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a patient. These problems could lead to recall of, or issuance of a safety alert relating to, our products, and could result in product liability claims and lawsuits, including class actions, which could ultimately result, in certain cases, in the removal from the body of such products and claims regarding costs associated therewith. Due to the strong name recognition of the Medtronic and Covidien brands, a material adverse event involving one of our products could result in reduced market acceptance and demand for all products within that brand, and could harm our reputation and ability to market products in the future. Further, we may be exposed to additional potential product liability risks related to products designed, manufactured and/or marketed in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and unpredictable or accelerated changes in demand for certain of our products in connection with COVID-19 and its related impacts could impact development and production of products and services and could increase the risk of regulatory enforcement actions, product defects or related claims, as well as adversely impact our customer relationships and reputation. Strong product quality is critical to the success of our goods and services. If we fall short of these standards and our products are the subject of recalls or safety alerts, our reputation could be damaged, we could lose customers and our revenue and results of operations could decline. Our success also can depend on our ability to manufacture to exact specification precision-engineered components, subassemblies and finished devices from multiple materials. If our components fail to meet these standards or fail to adapt to evolving standards, our reputation, competitive advantage and market share could be harmed. In certain situations, we may undertake a voluntary recall of products or temporarily shut down production lines based on performance relative to our own internal safety and quality monitoring and testing data. Any of the foregoing problems, including future product liability claims or recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Healthcare policy changes may have a material adverse effect on us. In response to perceived increases in healthcare costs in recent years, there have been and continue to be proposals by several governments, regulators and third-party payers globally, including the U.S. federal and state governments, to control these costs and, more generally, to reform healthcare systems. Certain of these proposals could, among other things, limit the prices we are able to charge for our products or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products and could limit the acceptance and availability of our products. The adoption of some or all of these proposals could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our insurance program may not be adequate to cover future losses. We have elected to self-insure most of our insurable risks across the Company, and we made this decision based on cost and availability factors in the insurance marketplace. We manage and maintain a portion of our self-insured program through a wholly-owned captive insurance company. We continue to maintain a directors and officers liability insurance policy with third-party insurers that provides coverage for the directors and officers of the Company. We continue to monitor the insurance marketplace to evaluate the value of obtaining insurance coverage for other categories of losses in the future. Although we believe, based on historical loss trends, that our self-insurance program accruals and our existing insurance coverage will be adequate to cover future losses, historical trends may not be indicative of future losses. The absence of third-party insurance coverage for other categories of losses increases our exposure to unanticipated claims and these losses could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 21 The failure to comply with anti-corruption laws could materially adversely affect our business and result in civil and/or criminal sanctions. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the Irish Criminal Justice (Corruption Offences) Act 2018, and similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Because of the predominance of government-administered healthcare systems in many jurisdictions around the world, many of our customer relationships outside of the U.S. are with governmental entities and are therefore potentially subject to such laws. We also participate in public-private partnerships and other commercial and policy arrangements with governments around the globe. Global enforcement of anti-corruption laws has increased in recent years, including investigations and enforcement proceedings leading to assessment of significant fines and penalties against companies and individuals. Our international operations create a risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents, or distributors. We maintain policies and programs to implement safeguards to educate our employees and agents on these legal requirements, and to prevent and prohibit improper practices. However, existing safeguards and any future improvements may not always be effective, and our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors may engage in conduct for which we could be held responsible. In addition, regulators could seek to hold us liable for conduct committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. Any alleged or actual violations of these regulations may subject us to government scrutiny, criminal or civil sanctions and other liabilities, including exclusion from government contracting, and could disrupt our business, adversely affect our reputation and result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Laws and regulations governing international business operations could adversely impact our business. The U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC), and the Bureau of Industry and Security at the U.S. Department of Commerce (BIS), administer certain laws and regulations that restrict U.S. persons and, in some instances, non-U.S. persons, in conducting activities, transacting business with or making investments in certain countries, governments, entities and individuals subject to U.S. economic sanctions. Our international operations subject us to these laws and regulations, which are complex, restrict our business dealings with certain countries, governments, entities, and individuals, and are constantly changing. Further restrictions may be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner that materially impacts our operations. From time to time, certain of our subsidiaries have limited business dealings in countries subject to comprehensive sanctions, including Iran, Sudan, Syria, Cuba and the region of Crimea. Certain of our subsidiaries sell medical devices, and may provide related services, to distributors and other purchasing bodies in such countries. These business dealings represent an insignificant amount of our consolidated revenues and income, but expose us to a heightened risk of violating applicable sanctions regulations. Violations of these regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. We have established policies and procedures designed to assist with our compliance with such laws and regulations. However, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will prevent us from violating these regulations in every transaction in which we may engage, and such a violation could adversely affect our reputation, business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations and the risk of environmental liabilities, violations and litigation. We are subject to numerous U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning, among other things, the health and safety of our employees, the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials, emissions or discharges of substances into the environment, investigation and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at various sites, chemical constituents in medical products and end-of-life disposal and take-back programs for medical devices. Our operations and those of certain third-party suppliers involve the use of substances subject to these laws and regulations, primarily those used in manufacturing and sterilization processes. If we or our suppliers violate these environmental laws and regulations, facilities could be shut down and violators could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned. Furthermore, environmental laws outside of the U.S. are becoming more stringent, resulting in increased costs and compliance burdens. In addition, certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous substances or materials at their properties or at properties which they have disposed of hazardous substances. In addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. The ultimate cost of site cleanup and timing of future cash outflows is difficult to predict, given the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations, and alternative cleanup methods. 22 The costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations, or liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances, may exceed our estimates, or have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We rely on the proper function, security and availability of our information technology systems and data, as well as those of third parties throughout our global supply chain, to operate our business, and a breach, cyber-attack or other disruption to these systems or data could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, reputation or competitive position. We are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology systems to operate our business. That technology includes systems that could be used to process, transmit and store sensitive data. Additionally, many of our products and services include integrated software and information technology that collects data regarding patients or connects to other internal systems. Like all organizations, we routinely experience attempted interference with the integrity of, and interruptions in, our technology systems via events such as cyber-attacks, malicious intrusions, or other breakdowns. The consequences could mean data breaches, interference with the integrity of our products and data, or other significant disruptions. Furthermore, we rely on third-party vendors to supply and/or support certain aspects of our information technology systems and resulting products. As we have seen with recent “Supply Chain Attacks,” these third-party systems could also become vulnerable to cyber-attack, malicious intrusions, breakdowns, interference or other significant disruptions, and may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could result in system disruption or compromise the information security of our own systems. Lastly, we continue to grow in part through new business acquisitions and, as a result, may face risks associated with defects and vulnerabilities in their systems, or difficulties or other breakdowns or disruptions in connection with the integration of the acquisitions into our information technology systems. Our worldwide operations mean that we are subject to laws and regulations, including data protection and cybersecurity laws and regulations, in many jurisdictions. The variety of U.S. and international privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations impacting our operations are described in “Item 1. Business" – Other Factors Impacting Our Operations – Data Privacy and Security Laws and Regulations . For example, GDPR prefers that we manage personal data in the E.U. and may impose fines of up to four percent of our global revenue in the event of certain violations. Furthermore, there has been a developing trend of civil lawsuits and class actions relating to breaches of consumer data held by large companies or incidents arising from other cyber-attacks. Any data security breaches, cyber-attacks, malicious intrusions or significant disruptions could result in actions by regulatory bodies and/or civil litigation, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, reputation or competitive position. In addition, our information technology systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and enhance existing systems and develop new systems. This enables us to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving legal and regulatory standards, the increasing need to protect patient and customer information, changes in the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to data and information systems, and the information technology needs associated with our changing products and services. There can be no assurance that our extensive efforts (including, but not limited to, consolidating, protecting, upgrading and expanding our systems and capabilities, continuing to build security into the design of our products, and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology) will be successful or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. Further, the COVID-19 pandemic and related government actions continues to mandate that our employees work remotely, which could expose us to greater risks related to cybersecurity and our information technologies systems. If our information technology systems, products or services or sensitive data are compromised, there are many consequences that could result. Consequences include, but are not limited to patients or employees could be exposed to financial or medical identity theft or suffer a loss of product functionality, losing existing customers or have difficulty attracting new customers, experiencing difficulty preventing, detecting, and controlling fraud, be exposed to the loss or misuse of confidential information, have disputes with customers, physicians, and other healthcare professionals, suffer regulatory sanctions or penalties under federal laws, state laws, or the laws of other jurisdictions, experience increases in operating expenses or an impairment in our ability to conduct our operations, incur expenses or lose revenues as a result of a data privacy breach, product failure, information technology outages or disruptions, or suffer other adverse consequences including lawsuits or other legal action and damage to our reputation. Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are subject to income taxes, as well as non-income based taxes, in the U.S., Ireland, and various other jurisdictions in which we operate. The tax laws in the U.S., Ireland and other countries in which we and our affiliates do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could materially adversely affect our business and our effective tax rate. For example, on December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted comprehensive tax legislation, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and 23 Jobs Act (the "Tax Act"), which resulted in a significant charge to tax expense during our fiscal year 2018 associated with U.S. taxation of accumulated foreign earnings as well as the requirement to revalue U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from the reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate. While the U.S. Treasury has issued a significant amount of guidance to date on the interpretation of the Tax Act, there remains regulations that have not yet been issued in final form. In addition, the Biden Administration has provided a framework for proposed U.S. tax law changes, which if enacted could have a material impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. In 2015, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) published an action plan called Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) with the purpose of tackling perceived tax abuses, inconsistency between taxing authorities, and their respective approach to international tax matters. Thereafter, many taxing authorities have adopted the BEPS guidelines into their local laws. In addition, the European Union (EU) expanded upon these guidelines with their Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive (ATAD 1 & 2) to be applied by all member states by 2020. In 2018, the OECD announced its intention to expand the scope of BEPS (BEPS 2.0) to provide a long-term solution to taxing right challenges arising from the global digital economy. The OECD expects to release the final agreed BEPS 2.0 guidelines in the summer of 2021. Jurisdictions would then need to enact legislation to adopt the guidelines into law. The proposals, as currently drafted, are categorized into two groups (commonly referred to as Pillars). Pillar One is focused on providing a mechanism for taxing rights more closely with market engagement; generally where people or consumers are located. Pillar Two is focused on establishing a global minimum tax and would apply when a country’s income tax rate is below a still-to-be determined, minimum tax rate. These proposals are wide ranging and could affect all multinational enterprises across all industries without regard to their level of engagement with the digital economy. The aggressive nature of the timeline set by the OECD may mean that all implications for business may not have been fully worked through or fully understood by the OECD before final guidelines are issued. We continue to monitor the implications potentially resulting from this guidance. This action together with other legislative changes in many countries on the mandatory sharing of company information (financial and operational) with taxing authorities on a local and global basis under various information sharing initiatives, could lead to disagreements between jurisdictions associated with the proper allocation of profits between such jurisdictions. We are subject to ongoing tax audits in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We have recorded reserves for potential payments of tax to various tax authorities related to uncertain tax positions. However, the calculation of such tax liabilities involves the application of complex tax laws, regulations and treaties (where applicable) in many jurisdictions. Therefore, any dispute with a tax authority may result in a payment that is significantly different from current estimates. If payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be less than the recorded amounts, the reversal of the liabilities generally would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. If our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the amount for which it is ultimately liable, we would incur additional charges, and such charges could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. The Medtronic, Inc. tax court proceeding outcome could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. In March 2009, the IRS issued its audit report for Medtronic Inc. for fiscal years 2005 and 2006. Medtronic, Inc. reached agreements with the IRS on some, but not all matters related to these fiscal years. The remaining unresolved issue for fiscal years 2005 and 2006 relates to the allocation of income between Medtronic, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiary operating in Puerto Rico, which is one of our key manufacturing sites. An adverse outcome in this matter could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. See Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Future potential changes to the U.S. tax laws could result in us being treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes, and the IRS may not agree with the conclusion that we should be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S federal income tax purposes. Because Medtronic plc is organized under the laws of Ireland, we would generally be classified as a foreign corporation under the general rule that a corporation is considered tax resident in the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Even so, the IRS may assert that we should be treated as a U.S. corporation (and, therefore, a U.S. tax resident) for U.S. federal income tax purposes pursuant to Section 7874 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). In addition, a retroactive change to U.S. tax laws in this area could change this classification. If we were to be treated as a U.S. corporation for federal tax purposes, we could be subject to substantially greater U.S. tax liability than currently contemplated as a non-U.S. corporation. 24 Legislative or other governmental action relating to the denial of U.S. federal or state governmental contracts to U.S. companies that redomicile abroad could adversely affect our business. Various U.S. federal and state legislative proposals that would deny governmental contracts to U.S. companies that move their corporate location abroad may affect us. We are unable to predict the likelihood that, or final form in which, any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of the regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the effect such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business. Risks Relating to Our Jurisdiction of Incorporation We are incorporated in Ireland, and Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the U.S. and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. Our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. It may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the U.S. against us in Ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. In addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of Ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised that the U.S. currently does not have a treaty with Ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any U.S. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in Ireland. As an Irish company, we are governed by the Irish Companies Act 2014, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. Likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an Irish company generally are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. Accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in the U.S. As an Irish public limited company, certain capital structure decisions require shareholder approval, which may limit Medtronic’s flexibility to manage its capital structure. Under Irish law, our authorized share capital can be increased by an ordinary resolution of our shareholders and the directors may issue new ordinary or preferred shares, without shareholder approval, once authorized to do so by our articles of association or by an ordinary resolution of our shareholders. Additionally, subject to specified exceptions, Irish law grants statutory preemption rights to existing shareholders where shares are being issued for cash consideration but allows shareholders to disapply such statutory preemption rights either in our articles of association or by way of special resolution. Such disapplication can either be generally applicable or be in respect of a particular allotment of shares. Accordingly, at our 2020 Annual General Meeting, our Shareholders authorized our Board of Directors to issue up to 33% of our issued ordinary shares and further authorized our Board of Directors to issue up to 10% of such shares for cash without first offering them to our existing shareholders (provided that with respect to 5% of such shares, such allotment is to be used for the purposes of a specified capital investment). Both of these authorizations will expire on June 11, 2022, unless renewed by shareholders for a further period. We anticipate seeking new authorizations at our 2021 Annual General Meeting and in subsequent years. We cannot provide any assurance that these authorizations will always be approved, which could limit our ability to issue equity and thereby adversely affect the holders of our securities. A transfer of our shares, other than ones effected by means of the transfer of book-entry interests in the Depository Trust Company, may be subject to Irish stamp duty. Transfers of our shares effected by means of the transfer of book entry interests in the Depository Trust Company (DTC) will not be subject to Irish stamp duty. However, if a shareholder holds our shares directly rather than beneficially through DTC, any transfer of shares could be subject to Irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the higher of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired). Payment of Irish stamp duty is generally a legal obligation of the transferee. The potential for stamp duty could adversely affect the price of shares. 25 In certain limited circumstances, dividends we pay may be subject to Irish dividend withholding tax and dividends received by Irish residents and certain other shareholders may be subject to Irish income tax. In certain limited circumstances, dividend withholding tax (currently at a rate of 25%) may arise in respect of dividends paid on our shares. A number of exemptions from dividend withholding tax exist such that shareholders resident in the U.S. and other specified countries that have a tax treaty with Ireland may be entitled to exemptions from dividend withholding tax. Shareholders resident in the U.S. that hold their shares through DTC will not be subject to dividend withholding tax, provided the addresses of the beneficial owners of such shares in the records of the brokers holding such shares are recorded as being in the U.S. (and such brokers have further transmitted the relevant information to a qualifying intermediary appointed by us). However, other shareholders may be subject to dividend withholding tax, which could adversely affect the price of their shares. Shareholders entitled to an exemption from Irish dividend withholding tax on dividends received from us will not be subject to Irish income tax in respect of those dividends unless they have some connection with Ireland other than their shareholding in our Company (for example, they are resident in Ireland). Shareholders who receive dividends subject to Irish dividend withholding tax generally have no further liability to Irish income tax on those dividends. Our shares received by means of a gift or inheritance could be subject to Irish capital acquisitions tax. Irish capital acquisitions tax (CAT) could apply to a gift or inheritance of our shares irrespective of the place of residence, ordinary residence or domicile of the parties. This is because our shares will be regarded as property situated in Ireland. The person who receives the gift or inheritance has primary liability for CAT. Gifts and inheritances passing between spouses are exempt from CAT. Children have a tax-free threshold of €335,000 in respect of taxable gifts or inheritances received from their parents. Irish Revenue typically updates the amount of this tax-free threshold on an annual basis. Economic and Industry Risks If we experience decreasing prices for our goods and services and we are unable to reduce our expenses, there may be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, decreasing prices for certain of our goods and services due to pricing pressure from managed care organizations and other third-party payers on our customers, increased market power of our customers as the medical device industry consolidates and increased competition among medical engineering and manufacturing services providers. If the prices for our goods and services decrease and we are unable to reduce our expenses, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will be adversely affected. We are subject to a variety of risks associated with global operations that could adversely affect our profitability and operating results. We develop, manufacture, distribute and sell our products globally. We intend to continue to expand our operations and to pursue growth opportunities outside the U.S., especially in emerging markets. Operations in different countries including emerging markets could expose us to additional and greater risks and potential costs, including: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, • healthcare reform legislation, • the need to comply with different regulatory regimes worldwide that are subject to change and that could restrict our ability to manufacture and sell our products, • local product preferences and product requirements, • longer-term receivables than are typical in the U.S., • trade protection measures, tariffs and other border taxes, and import or export licensing requirements, • less intellectual property protection in some countries outside the U.S. than exists in the U.S., • different labor regulations and workforce instability, • political and economic instability, • the expiration and non-renewal of foreign tax rulings and/or grants, • potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws, and • economic instability and inflation, recession or interest rate fluctuations. The ongoing global economic competition and trade tensions between the U.S. and China present risk to Medtronic. Although we have been able to mitigate some of the impact on Medtronic from increased duties imposed by both sides (through petitioning both governments for tariff exclusions and other mitigations), the risk remains of additional tariffs and other kinds of restrictions. Tariff exclusions awarded to Medtronic by the U.S. Government require annual renewal, and policies for granting exclusions could shift. The U.S. and China could impose other types of restrictions such as limitations on government 26 procurement or technology export restrictions, which could affect Medtronic’s access to the markets. China comprises approximately eight percent of our total revenues. More generally, several governments including the U.S. have raised the possibility of policies to induce “re-shoring” of supply chains, less reliance on imported supplies, and greater national production. Examples include potential “Buy America” requirements in the U.S. or U.S. withdrawal from the World Trade Organization Agreement on Government Procurement (GPA). If such steps triggered retaliation in other markets restricting access to foreign products in purchases by their government-owned healthcare systems, the result could be a significant impact on Medtronic. Other significant changes or disruptions to international trade arrangements, such as termination or modifications of other existing trade agreements or the final implementation of the “Brexit” agreement between the United Kingdom and European Union, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, a significant amount of our trade receivables are with national healthcare systems in many countries. Repayment of these receivables is dependent upon the political and financial stability of those countries. In light of these global economic fluctuations, we continue to monitor the creditworthiness of customers. Failure to receive payment of all or a significant portion of these receivables could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, COVID-19, and the responses of business and governments to the pandemic, have at times resulted in reduced availability of air transport, port closures, increased border controls or closures, increased transportation costs and increased security threats to our supply chain, and countries may continue to close borders, impose prolonged quarantines, and further restrict travel and other activities. Our business could be adversely impacted if we are unable to successfully manage these and other risks of global operations. Finally, changes in currency exchange rates may impact the reported value of our revenues, expenses, and cash flows. We cannot predict changes in currency exchange rates, the impact of exchange rate changes, nor the degree to which we will be able to manage the impact of currency exchange rate changes. Consolidation in the healthcare industry could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Many healthcare industry companies, including healthcare systems, distributors, manufacturers, providers, and insurers, are consolidating or have formed strategic alliances. As the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide goods and services to industry participants will become more intense. Further, this consolidation creates larger enterprises with greater negotiating power, which they can use to negotiate price concessions. If we must reduce our prices because of industry consolidation, or if we lose customers as a result of consolidation, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be adversely affected. Healthcare industry cost-containment measures could result in reduced sales of our medical devices and medical device components. Most of our customers, and the healthcare providers to whom our customers supply medical devices, rely on third-party payers, including government programs and private health insurance plans, to reimburse some or all of the cost of the procedures in which medical devices that incorporate components we manufacture or assemble are used. The continuing efforts of governmental authorities, insurance companies and other payers of healthcare costs to contain or reduce these costs could lead to patients being unable to obtain approval for payment from these third-party payers. If third-party payer payment approval cannot be obtained by patients, sales of finished medical devices that include our components may decline significantly and our customers may reduce or eliminate purchases of our components. The cost-containment measures that healthcare providers are instituting, both in the U.S. and outside of the U.S., could harm our ability to operate profitably. For example, managed care organizations have successfully negotiated volume discounts for pharmaceuticals, and GPOs and IDNs have also concentrated purchasing decisions for some customers, which has led to downward pricing pressure for medical device companies, including us.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis provides information management believes to be relevant to understanding the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. The discussi on focuses on our financial results for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2021 (fiscal year 2021) and the fiscal year ended April 24, 2020 (fiscal year 2020). A discussion on our results of operations for fiscal year 2020 as compared the year ended April 26, 2019 (fiscal year 2019) is included in Part II, Item 7. "Mana gement's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended April 24, 2020, filed with the SEC on June 19, 2020, and is incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K . You should read this discussion and analysis along with our consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto at April 30, 2021 and April 24, 2020 and for fiscal years 2021, 2020, and 2019, which are presented within "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Amounts reported in millions within this annual report are computed based on the amounts in thousands, and therefore, the sum of the components may not equal the total amount reported in millions due to rounding. Additionally, certain columns and rows within tables may not sum due to rounding. Throughout this Management’s Discussion and Analysis, we present certain financial measures that we use to evaluate the operational performance of the Company and as a basis for strategic planning; however, such financial measures are not presented in our financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (U.S. GAAP). These financial measures are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" and are intended to supplement, and should not be considered as superior to, financial measures presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We generally use non-GAAP financial measures to facilitate management's review of the operational performance of the Company and as a basis for strategic planning. We believe that non-GAAP financial measures provide information useful to investors in understanding the Company's underlying operational performance and trends and may facilitate comparisons with the performance of other companies in the medical technologies industry. As presented in the GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations section below, our non-GAAP financial measures exclude the impact of certain charges or benefits that contribute to or reduce earnings and that may affect financial trends, and include certain charges or benefits that result from transactions or events that we believe may or may not recur with similar materiality or impact to our operations in future periods (Non-GAAP Adjustments). In the event there is a Non-GAAP Adjustment recognized in our operating results, the tax cost or benefit attributable to that item is separately calculated and reported. Because the effective rate can be significantly impacted by the Non-GAAP Adjustments that take place during the period, we often refer to our tax rate using both the effective rate and the non-GAAP nominal tax rate (Non-GAAP Nominal Tax Rate). The Non-GAAP Nominal Tax Rate is calculated as the income tax provision, adjusted for the impact of Non-GAAP Adjustments, as a percentage of income before income taxes, excluding Non-GAAP Adjustments. Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure calculated by subtracting property, plant, and equipment additions from operating cash flows. Refer to the “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations," "Income Taxes," and "Free Cash Flow" sections for reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. EXECUTIVE LEVEL OVERVIEW The global healthcare system faces an unprecedented challenge as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. COVID-19 had an adverse impact on certain aspects of our Company and business, including the demand for and supply of certain of our products, operations, supply chains and distribution systems, impacts or delays to product development milestones, clinical trials, or regulatory clearances and approval timing. Most of our businesses were affected by a decline in procedural volumes as a result of COVID-19 largely during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020 and the first two quarters of fiscal year 2021. However, we have seen a recovery in most of our businesses during the third and fourth quarters of fiscal year 2021 from the depths of the pandemic that we experienced in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020. We expect medical procedure recovery rates to continue to vary by therapy and country and could be impacted by regional COVID-19 case volumes, vaccine immunization rates, and new COVID-19 variants. As a result, we cannot predict with confidence the duration of the pandemic or the impact it may have on our Company. 32 The following is a summary of revenue, diluted earnings per share, and cash flow for fiscal years 2021 and 2020: Non-GAAP Reconciliations The tables below present reconciliations of our Non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP for fiscal years 2021 and 2020: 33 (1) Associated costs include costs incurred as a direct result of the restructuring program, such as salaries for employees supporting the program and consulting expenses. (2) The charges primarily include business combination transaction-related costs, changes in fair value of contingent consideration, and a change in amounts accrued for certain contingent liabilities for recent acquisitions. (3) We exclude unrealized and realized gains and losses on our minority investments as we do not believe these components of income or expense have a direct correlation to our ongoing or future business operations. (4) The charges represent acquired IPR&D in connection with asset acquisitions and certain license payments for unapproved technology. (5) The charges relate to the abandonment of certain intangible assets in our Neuroscience segment. (6) The charges represent estimated incremental costs of complying with the new European Union medical device regulations for previously registered products and primarily include charges for contractors supporting the project and other direct third-party expenses. (7) The charges relate to the early redemption of approximately $6.0 billion of debt. (8) The net benefit primarily relates to the finalization of an audit at the IRS Appellate level for fiscal years 2012 through 2014 and the capitalization of certain research and development costs for U.S. income tax purposes, which are partially offset by the impact of an intercompany sale of assets, and a tax basis adjustment and amortization of previously established deferred tax assets from intercompany intellectual property transactions. (9) The charges primarily include costs incurred in connection with legacy-Covidien enterprise resource planning deployment activities, business combination related costs, and changes in fair value of contingent consideration. (10) The charges, which include $413 million recognized in interest expense and ($7 million) recognized in other operating expense, net , primarily relates to the early redemption of approximately $5.2 billion of debt. (11) The net charges relate to the exit of businesses and are primarily comprised of intangible asset impairments. (12) The net benefit primarily relates to the release of a valuation allowance on certain net operating losses, the impact of an intercompany sale of intellectual property, and the impact of tax reform in Switzerland and the United States. Free Cash Flow Free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, is calculated by subtracting additions to property, plant, and equipment from net cash provided by operating activities. Management uses this non-GAAP financial measure, in addition to U.S. GAAP financial measures, to evaluate our operating results. Free cash flow should be considered supplemental to, and not a substitute for, our reported financial results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Reconciliations between net cash provided by operating activities (the most comparable U.S. GAAP measure) and free cash flow are as follows: 34 NET SALES Segment and Division The charts below illustrate the percent of net sales by segment for fiscal years 2021 and 2020: The table below includes net sales by segment and division for fiscal years 2021 and 2020: 35 Segment and Market Geography The charts below illustrate the percent of net sales by market geography for fiscal years 2021 and 2020: The table below includes net sales by market geography for each of our segments for fiscal years 2021 and 2020: (1) U.S. includes the United States and U.S. territories. (2) Non-U.S. developed markets include Japan, Australia, New Zealand, Korea, Canada, and the countries within Western Europe. (3) Emerging markets include the countries of the Middle East, Africa, Latin America, Eastern Europe, and the countries of Asia that are not included in the non-U.S. developed markets, as defined above. The increase in net sales for fiscal year 2021 as compared to fiscal year 2020 was primarily related to the recovery of procedure volumes as compared to the drastic decline experienced in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020 as a result of the pandemic. While the recovery of procedural volumes has been uneven across geographies and our different product lines, as of the end of fiscal year 2021, procedural volumes in the majority of our end markets are returning to pre-pandemic levels. Net sales for fiscal year 2021 were also impacted by an additional selling week during the first fiscal month of fiscal year 2021 due to our 52/53 week fiscal year calendar. Although we cannot precisely calculate the impact of the extra selling week, we estimate that it benefited net sales for fiscal year 2021 by approximately $360 million to $390 million. Additionally, currency had a favorable impact on net sales in non-U.S. developed markets of $427 million and an unfavorable impact on net sales in emerging markets of $98 million for fiscal year 2021 as compared to fiscal year 2020. During the first and fourth quarters of fiscal year 2021, we realigned our divisions with Neuroscience and Cardiovascular, respectively. As a result, fiscal year 2020 results have been recast to adjust for these realignments. Additionally, we implemented our new operating model in fiscal year 2021, which was fully operational beginning in the fourth quarter. Our new operating model simplifies our organization in order to accelerate decision making, improve commercial execution, and more effectively leverage the scale of our company. The "Restructuring Charges, Net" section of this Management's Discussion and Analysis has further information regarding our new operating model. 36 Looking ahead, the uncertain and uneven global recovery from COVID-19 and the resulting impact on future procedural volumes and demand for our products and therapies could negatively impact our business. Additionally, our segments are likely to face competitive product launches and pricing pressure, geographic macro-economic risks, reimbursement challenges, impacts from changes in the mix of our product offerings, changes in timing of product registration approvals, replacement cycle challenges, and fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Cardiovascular Cardiovascular products include pacemakers, insertable cardiac monitors, cardiac resynchronization therapy devices (CRT-D & CRT-P), implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICD), leads and delivery systems, ventricular assist systems, ablation products, electrophysiology catheters, products for the treatment of atrial fibrillation, information systems for the management of patients with Cardiac Rhythm & Heart Failure devices, products designed to reduce surgical site infections, coronary and peripheral stents and related delivery systems, balloons and related delivery systems, endovascular stent graft systems, heart valve replacement technologies, cardiac tissue ablation systems, and open heart and coronary bypass grafting surgical products. Cardiovascular also includes Care Management Services and Cath Lab Managed Services (CLMS) within the Cardiac Rhythm & Heart Failure division. Cardiovascular net sales for fiscal year 2021 were $10.8 billion, an increase of 3 percent as compared to fiscal year 2020. Currency had a favorable impact on net sales for fiscal year 2021 of $131 million. Cardiovascular net sales increase for fiscal year 2021, as compared to fiscal year 2020, was primarily due to the recovery of global procedural volumes from the downturn experienced in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020 resulting from the pandemic. The charts below illustrate the percent of Cardiovascular net sales by division for fiscal years 2021 and 2020: Cardiac Rhythm & Heart Failure (CRHF) net sales increased 9 percent in fiscal year 2021 as compared to fiscal year 2020. The increase was led by Cardiac Rhythm Management and Cardiac Ablation Solutions products, which included strong growth from the Micra leadless pacing system, Cobalt and Crome ICDs and CRT-Ds, TYRX antibacterial envelope, and Artic Front Advance Cryoballons. Partially offsetting this growth were declines in Mechanical Circulatory Support products driven by slower recovery of procedure volumes and competitive dynamics. Structural Heart & Aortic (SHA) net sales were flat in fiscal year 2021 as compared to fiscal year 2020 as growth in transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) nets sales were offset by net sales declines within our Aortic and Cardiac Surgery businesses. The growth experienced in TAVR was driven by continued adoption of the Evolut Pro + valve. The declines experienced in Aortic and Cardiac Surgery were a result of slower recovery of procedure volumes as well our voluntary recall of the Valiant Navion Thoracic Stent Graft System in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2021. Coronary & Peripheral Vascular (CPV) net sales decreased 5 percent in fiscal year 2021 as compared to fiscal year 2020. The decline was a result of the generally more deferrable nature of peripheral and endovenous procedure categories as well as the negative impact of the Chinese national tender on our drug-eluting stent sales. The Chinese national tender went into effect in January 2021 and resulted in significant price declines for drug-eluting stents in China, which negatively impacted our Coronary business. Partially offsetting these negative impacts was growth in drug-coated balloons and peripheral embolization 37 coils. Drug-coated balloon growth was the result of strong adoption of the IN.PACT AV drug-coated balloon driven by its pivotal data published during the second quarter of fiscal year 2021. In addition to the general impacts of COVID-19 on our Company as described in the Executive Level Overview, looking ahead, we expect Cardiovascular could be affected by the following: • Continued growth of our Micra transcatheter pacing system. Micra AV received U.S. FDA approval and CE Mark approval in January and April 2020, respectfully. Micra AV expands the Micra target population from 15 percent to 45 percent of pacemaker patients. • Continued acceptance and growth from the Azure XT and S SureScan pacing systems. Azure pacemakers feature Medtronic-exclusive BlueSync technology, which enables automatic, secure wireless remote monitoring with increased device longevity. • Acceptance and growth of the Cobalt and Crome portfolio of ICDs and CRT-Ds. These devices received CE Mark approval during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020 and U.S. FDA approval during the first quarter of fiscal year 2021. • Continued acceptance and growth of the Claria MRI CRT-D system with EffectivCRT Diagnostic and Effective CRT during AF algorithm. • Acceptance and growth of the LINQ II cardiac monitor, which received CE Mark in November 2019 and gained U.S. FDA approval during the first quarter of fiscal year 2021. As of the end of the fiscal year 2021, we are experiencing supply constrains for the LINQ II cardiac monitor as we ramp our wafer scale manufacturing. • Continued acceptance and growth of the CRT-P quadripolar pacing system. • Continued growth, adoption, and utilization of the TYRX Envelope for implantable devices driven by the favorable results of the WRAP-IT clinical study. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020, we received 12-month shelf life extension for our TYRX Envelope product. • Continued acceptance and market expansion of the Arctic Front Advance Cryoballoon for treatment of atrial fibrillation. We are pursuing a first line therapy designation from the U.S. FDA for the Arctic Front Advance Cryoballoon's treatment of atrial fibrillation using the data of the STOP AF First clinical trial. • Continued acceptance and growth of the self-expanding CoreValve Evolut transcatheter aortic valve replacement platform into intermediate risk indication globally and for the treatment of patients determined to be at low risk with surgery. The Platform received both CE Mark for low risk and bicuspid labeling indication in Europe during the first quarter of fiscal year 2021. In August 2020, the U.S. FDA approved revised commercial labeling for the platform that modified a precaution for the treatment of patients at low risk. • Continued expansion and training of field support to increase coverage in the U.S. centers performing transcatheter aortic valve replacement procedures. • Continued acceptance and growth from Evolut PRO, which provides industry-leading hemodynamics, reliable delivery, and advanced sealing with an excellent safety profile, as well as acceptance of our next generation Evolut Pro Plus TAVR valve. • The negative impact of the Chinese national tender on drug-eluting stent prices in China, that went into effect in January 2021, as well as provincial tenders in China on other Coronary product categories. • Continued acceptance and growth from the VenaSeal Closure System in the U.S. The VenaSeal Closure System is a unique non-thermal solution to address superficial venous disease that provides improved patient comfort, reduces the recovery time, and eliminates the risk of thermal nerve injury. • Our voluntary recall of the Valiant Navion Thoracic Stent Graft System and our ability to ramp production of our previous generation product, the Valiant Captivia Thoracic Stent Graft System and resume selling this product in markets globally. We currently have limited Valiant Captivia inventory available and plan to reach full production capacity in October 2021. 38 • Our recent decision to stop the distribution and sale of the Medtronic HVAD System in June 2021 in light of a growing body of observational clinical comparisons indicating a lower frequency of neurological adverse events and mortality with another circulatory support device available to patients compared to the HVAD system. The HVAD system and associated accessory revenue was $141 million in fiscal year 2021. Medtronic is committed to serving the needs of the approximately 4,000 patients currently implanted with our HVAD system. We expect to record a non-cash, pre-tax impairment of long-lived assets of $400 million to $500 million in the quarter ending July 30, 2021 primarily related to intangible assets. Management also expects to record a charge related to customer support obligations, restructuring, and other associated costs in the quarter ending July 30, 2021. • Our ability to successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval of products within our pipeline, which include the Symplicity Spyral Multi-Electrode Renal Denervation Catheter for the treatment of hypertension through a one-time, minimally invasive, catheter procedure, Pulse Field Ablation, a novel energy source that is non-thermal, for the treatment of atrial fibrillation, and transcatheter mitral and tricuspid therapy products lead by our Intrepid system. Medical Surgical Medical Surgical’s products span the entire continuum of patient care from diagnosis to recovery, with a focus on diseases of the gastrointestinal tract, lungs, pelvic region, kidneys, obesity, and preventable complications. The products include those for advanced and general surgical products, surgical stapling devices, vessel sealing instruments, wound closure, electrosurgery products, hernia mechanical devices, mesh implants, advanced ablation, interventional lung, ventilators, airway products, renal care products, and sensors and monitors for pulse oximetry, capnography, level of consciousness and cerebral oximetry. Medical Surgical’s net sales for fiscal year 2021 were $8.7 billion, an increase of 5 percent as compared to fiscal year 2020. Currency had a favorable impact on net sales of $87 million for fiscal year 2021. Net sales growth was primarily driven by the recovery in procedure volumes experienced from the downturn experienced in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020 from the pandemic and increased demand for COVID-19 related diagnostics and therapies, particularly ventilator and airway products, as compared to fiscal year 2020. The charts below illustrate the percent of Medical Surgical net sales by division for fiscal years 2021 and 2020: Surgical Innovations (SI) net sales for fiscal year 2021 decreased 1 percent as compared to fiscal year 2020, with declines experienced across many product lines due to the deceleration of surgical procedure recovery. The decline in surgical volumes, particularly Bariatric, Colorectal, Hernia, and Thoracic procedures, resulted in lower demand for Advanced Stapling products and General Surgery products. This decline in demand was partially offset by new product launches driving growth in Advanced Energy. 39 Respiratory, Gastrointestinal, & Renal (RGR) net sales for fiscal year 2021 increased 16 percent as compared to fiscal year 2020. Net sales growth was primarily attributable to increased demand for Respiratory Interventions products due to COVID-19, driven by the Puritan Bennett high acuity ventilator portfolio. In addition to the general impacts of COVID-19 on our Company as described in the Executive Level Overview, looking ahead we expect Medical Surgical could be affected by the following: • Continued acceptance and future growth of Open-to-MIS techniques and tools supported by our efforts to transition open surgery to MIS (minimally invasive surgery). The Open-to-MIS initiative focuses on furthering our presence in and working to optimize open surgery globally, while capturing the market opportunity that exists in transitioning open procedures to MIS, whether through traditional MIS, or advanced technologies including robotics. • Continued acceptance and future growth of powered stapling and energy platform, along with our ability to execute ongoing strategies to develop, gain regulatory approval, and commercialize new products including our surgical soft tissue robotics platform. • Our ability to execute ongoing strategies in order to address the competitive pressure of reprocessing of our vessel sealing disposables and growth of surgical soft tissue robotics procedures in the U.S. • Our ability to create markets and drive products and procedures into emerging markets. We have high quality and cost-effective surgical products designed for customers in emerging markets such as the ValleyLab LS10 single channel vessel sealing generator, which is compatible with our line of LigaSure instruments and designed for simplified use and affordability. • Continued acceptance and growth within the end stage renal disease market. The population of patients treated for end stage renal disease globally is expected to double over the next decade. • Continued elevation of the standard of care for respiratory compromise, a progressive condition impacting a patient’s ability to breathe effectively, which leverages our market leading MicroStream capnography technology. • Continued acceptance and growth in patient monitoring, airway, and ventilation management. Key products in this area include the Puritan Bennett 980 ventilator, Microstream Capnography, Nellcor pulse oximetry system with OxiMax technology, Shiley tracheostomy and endotracheal tubes, and McGRATH MAC video laryngoscopes. • Continued and future acceptance of less invasive standards of care in Gastrointestinal and Hepatology products, including the areas of GI Diagnostic and Therapeutic product lines. Recently launched products include the PillCam COLON capsule endoscopy, the Barrx platform through ablation with the Barrx 360 Express catheter, EndoFLIP imaging systems, Bravo Calibration-free reflux testing, and the Emprint ablation system with Thermosphere Technology, which maintains predictable spherical ablation zones throughout procedures reducing procedure time and cost. • Continued and future acceptance of Interventional Lung Solutions. Products include our Illumisite navigation platform, combined with our portfolio of biopsy tools including the Arcpoint pulmonary needle, and to access lesions outside the airway, the CrossCountry transbronchial access tool. This comprehensive portfolio gives the power to display position and access lung nodules in the periphery of the lungs, in a minimally invasive approach to accessing difficult-to-reach areas of the lung, which may aid in the diagnosis of lung cancer. • Expanding the use of less invasive treatments and furthering our commitment to improving options for women with abnormal uterine bleeding. Our expanded and strengthened surgical offerings are expected to complement our global gynecology business. • Our ability to successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval of products within our pipeline, which include our PillCam Genius endoscopy module, a noninvasive process to localize pre-cancerous lesions and our Hugo robotic assisted surgery system, designed to help reduce unwanted variability, improve patient outcomes, and, by extension, lower per-procedure cost. 40 Neuroscience Neuroscience's products include various spinal implants, bone graft substitutes, biologic products, image-guided surgery and intra-operative imaging systems, robotic guidance systems used in the robot-assisted spine procedures, and systems that incorporate advanced energy surgical instruments. Neuroscience's products also focus on the treatment of overactive bladder, urinary retention, fecal incontinence, gastroparesis, as well as products to treat ear, nose, and throat (ENT), and therapies to treat the diseases of the vasculature in and around the brain, including coils, neurovascular stents and flow diversion products. Neuroscience also manufactures products related to implantable neurostimulation therapies and drug delivery systems for the treatment of chronic pain, movement disorders, and epilepsy. Neuroscience’s net sales for fiscal year 2021 were $8.2 billion, an increase of 6 percent as compared to fiscal year 2020. Currency had a favorable impact on net sales for fiscal year 2021 of $75 million. Neuroscience’s net sales growth was observed across all divisions and reflected the recovery of global procedural volumes, particularly on deferrable procedures, from the downturn experienced in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020 as a result of the pandemic. The graphs below illustrate the percent of Neuroscience net sales by division for fiscal years 2021 and 2020: Cranial & Spinal Technologies (CST) net sales for fiscal year 2021 increased 5 percent as compared to fiscal year 2020. Growth was experienced by both Enabling Technologies and Spine. Enabling Technologies results, though still impacted by the challenging environment for capital equipment due to COVID-19, were driven by recovery on sales of the Midas Rex MR8 high-speed drill system and the StealthStation S8 Navigation System. Spine net sales growth was driven by recovery in procedural volumes in fiscal year 2021. Specialty Therapies (Specialty) net sales for fiscal year 2021 increased 7 percent as compared to fiscal year 2020. Net sales growth was primarily driven by strength in Pelvic Health and Neurovascular. Pelvic Health saw continued recovery and growth throughout the fiscal year, driven by the launch of the InterStim Micro neurostimulator and SureScan MRI lead in the U.S. Neurovascular's growth continued to be driven by strength in coils and aspiration catheters, as well as general strength in emerging markets. This growth was partially offset by declines in flow diversion products due to recent competitive entrants. ENT experienced modest net sales growth due to the recovery of deferrable procedure volumes. Neuromodulation (NM) net sales for fiscal year 2021 increased 7 percent as compared to fiscal year 2020. Sales growth occurred in both Pain Therapies and Brain Modulation and reflected a recovery in procedural volumes. Net sales growth was driven by strong adoption of the DTM (differential target multiplexed) proprietary waveform in Pain Therapies, and the Percept PC deep brain stimulation (DBS) device with BrainSense technology in Brain Modulation. 41 In addition to the general impacts of COVID-19 on our Company as described in the Executive Level Overview, looking ahead we expect Neuroscience could be affected by the following: • Continued growth from Enabling Technologies StealthStation and O-Arm Imaging Systems, Midas, and ENT Navigation and Power Systems, as well as acceptance of the Stealth Autoguide cranial robotic guidance platform. • Continued sales of Mazor robotic units and associated market adoption of robot-assisted spine procedures, including the Mazor X Stealth, our integrated robotics and navigation platform. • Strengthening of our position in the spine titanium interbody implant marketplace as a result of the June 2019 acquisition of Titan Spine. • Continued adoption of our integrated solutions through the Surgical Synergy strategy, which integrates our spinal implants with enabling technologies such as imaging, navigation, power instruments, nerve monitoring, and Mazor robotics. • Market acceptance and continued global adoption of innovative new spine products and procedural solutions within our CST business such as our Infinity OCT System and Prestige LP cervical disc system. • Growth in the broader vertebral compression fracture (VCF) and adjacent markets as we continue to pursue the development of other therapies to treat more patients with VCF, including continued success of both the Kyphon V vertebroplasty system and the Osteocool RF Spinal Tumor ablation system. • Continued acceptance and growth of our ENT and Pelvic Health therapies within our Specialty Therapies division, including our InterStim therapy with InterStim II and InterStim Micro neurostimulators, which received CE mark approval in January 2020 and U.S. FDA approval in August 2020, for the treatment of the symptoms of overactive bladder, urinary retention, and bowel incontinence, and capital equipment sales of the Stealth Station ENT surgical navigation system and intraoperative NIM nerve monitoring system. • Continued acceptance and growth of the Solitaire FR revascularization device for treatment of acute ischemic stroke and the Pipeline Embolization Devices, endovascular treatments for large or giant wide-necked brain aneurysms. • Continued acceptance of our React Catheter and Riptide aspiration system, along with our next-generation Solitaire revascularization device. • Market acceptance and continued global adoption of our Intellis spinal cord stimulator, DTM proprietary waveform, Evolve workflow algorithm, and Snapshot reporting to treat chronic pain in major markets around the world. • Continued acceptance and growth of our Percept PC DBS device with BrainSense technology, which received CE Mark approval in January 2020 and U.S. FDA approval in June 2020, including its treatment of Parkinson's Disease, epilepsy, and other movement disorders. • Ongoing obligations under the U.S. FDA consent decree entered in April 2015 relating to the SynchroMed drug infusion system and the Neuromodulation quality system. The U.S. FDA lifted its distribution requirements on our implantable drug pump in October 2017 and its warning letter in November 2017. • Our ability to successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval of the products within our pipeline, which include our closed-loop Percept PC and RC devices with adaptive DBS (aDBS) within Neuromodulation, as well as our hemorrhagic stroke intrasaccular device within Specialty Therapies, and our next-generation spine enabling technologies within CST. Diabetes Diabetes' products include insulin pumps, continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) systems, insulin pump consumables, and smart insulin pen systems. Diabetes' sales for fiscal year 2021 were $2.4 billion, an increase of 2 percent as compared to fiscal year 2020. Currency had a favorable impact on net sales for fiscal year 2021 of $37 million. Diabetes' net sales increases for fiscal year 2021 were primarily attributable to growth in the MiniMed 780G insulin pump system and integrated CGM in the international markets. This growth was partially offset by declines in the U.S. due to new patient start delays and continued competitive pressures. 42 In addition to the general impacts of COVID-19 on our Company as described in the Executive Level Overview, looking ahead we expect Diabetes could be affected by the following: • Patient demand for the MiniMed 770G insulin pump system, which received U.S. FDA approval in August 2020 and launched in November 2020. The system is powered by SmartGuard technology, as featured in the MiniMed 670G system, with the added benefits of smartphone connectivity and an expanded age indication to children as young as age two. • Continued future growth internationally for the MiniMed 780G system. The MiniMed 780G system was approved in the E.U. in June 2020 and launched in over 30 countries on four continents outside the U.S., primarily in Europe, starting in October 2020. The global adoption of sensor-augmented insulin pump systems has resulted in strong sensor attachment rates. • Continued acceptance and growth of the Guardian Connect CGM system, which displays glucose information directly to a smartphone. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, we introduced the Guardian Connect system for Android devices to ensure patients have access to their glucose levels seamlessly and discretely. The Guardian Connect CGM system is available on Apple iOS and Android devices. • Strengthening our position in the diabetes market as a result of the September 10, 2020 acquisition of Companion Medical. Companion Medical offers a U.S. FDA cleared InPen smart pen system that combines the freedom of a reusable Bluetooth pen with the intelligence of an intuitive mobile application that helps users administer the appropriate insulin dose. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2021, we integrated our CGM data into the Companion Medical InPen Application, which allows users to have their CGM readings in real-time alongside insulin dose information, all in one view. • Continued pump and CGM competition in an expanding global market. • Changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs, along with additional payor coverage on insulin pumps. • Our ability to successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval of the products within our pipeline, which include our adult and pediatric MiniMed 780G and the Guardian 4 sensor, which have been submitted to the U.S. FDA. These technologies feature our next-generation algorithms by further automating insulin delivery. 43 COSTS AND EXPENSES The following is a summary of cost of products sold, research and development, and selling, general, and administrative expenses as a percent of net sales: Cost of Products Sold Cost of products sold for fiscal years 2021 and 2020 was $10.5 billion and $9.4 billion, respectively. The increase in cost of products sold as a percentage of net sales in fiscal year 2021, as compared to fiscal year 2020, was largely due to increased expenses as a result of a full fiscal year impact of COVID-19, primarily due to period expensing of some of our fixed overhead costs due to idle capacity at certain manufacturing facilities and increases in reserves for excess and obsolete inventory, as well as charges associated with recent field corrective actions. Going forward, we will continue to focus on reducing our costs of production through supplier management, manufacturing improvements, and optimizing our manufacturing network. Research and Development Expense We remain committed to accelerating the development of meaningful innovations to deliver better patient outcomes at appropriate costs that lead to enhanced quality of life and may be validated by clinical and economic evidence. We are also focused on expanding access to quality healthcare. In fiscal year 2021, we entered into arrangements with third parties to fund the development of certain technologies in our Diabetes segment. As there is a substantive and genuine transfer of risk to the third parties, the development funding provided is recognized as an obligation to perform contractual services, and therefore is recorded as income in other operating expense, net in the consolidated statements of income in the period the corresponding research and development expenses are incurred. If the technologies receive regulatory approval and are successfully commercialized, we will pay royalties to the third parties. During fiscal year 2021, no projects were significant, either individually or in aggregate, to our consolidated results. Selling, General, and Administrative Expense Our goal is to continue to leverage selling, general, and administrative expense initiatives. Selling, general, and administrative expense primarily consists of salaries and wages, other administrative costs, such as professional fees and marketing expenses, and certain acquisition and restructuring expenses. Selling, general, and administrative expense for fiscal years 2021 and 2020 was $10.1 billion. The decrease in selling, general, and administrative expense as a percentage of net sales in fiscal year 2021, as compared to 2020, was primarily due to net sales growth, coupled with reduced travel and discretionary spending due to the pandemic, offset by higher annual incentive accruals and increased restructuring and associated costs. Selling, general, and administrative expense in fiscal year 2021 includes $196 million of restructuring and associated costs, as compared to $168 million in fiscal year 2020. Additionally, for fiscal year 2020, selling, general, and administrative expense includes $103 million of acquisition-related costs, as compared to $3 million for fiscal year 2021. 44 The following is a summary of other costs and expenses: Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization of intangible assets includes the amortization expense of our definite-lived intangible assets, consisting of purchased patents, trademarks, tradenames, customer relationships, purchased technology, and other intangible assets. Restructuring Charges, Net Enterprise Excellence In the third quarter of fiscal year 2018, we announced a multi-year global Enterprise Excellence Program designed to drive long-term business growth and sustainable efficiency. The Enterprise Excellence Program is expected to further leverage our global size and scale as well as enhance the customer and employee experience. The Enterprise Excellence Program is focused on three objectives: • Global Operations – integrating and enhancing global manufacturing and supply processes, systems and site presence to improve quality, delivery cost and cash flow • Functional Optimization – enhancing and leveraging global operating models and systems across several enabling functions to improve productivity and employee experience • Commercial Optimization – optimizing certain processes, systems and models to improve productivity and the customer experience The Enterprise Excellence Program is designed to drive operating margin improvement as well as fund investment in strategic growth initiatives, with expected gross savings of more than $3.0 billion from cost reductions and leverage of our fixed infrastructure by the end of fiscal year 2022. Approximately $500 million to $700 million of gross annual savings are expected to be achieved through the end of fiscal year 2022. The Enterprise Excellence Program is expected to result in pre-tax restructuring charges of approximately $1.6 billion to $1.8 billion, the vast majority of which are expected to be incurred by the end of fiscal year 2022 and result in cash outlays to be substantially complete by the end of fiscal year 2023. Approximately 40 percent of estimated charges are related to employee termination benefits. The remaining charges are costs associated with the restructuring program, such as salaries and benefits for employees supporting the program, including program management and transition teams, and strategic and operational consulting services related to the three objectives of the program discussed above. We expect these costs to be recognized within restructuring charges, net, cost of products sold, and selling, general and administrative expense in the consolidated statements of income. During fiscal year 2021, we recognized net charges of $349 million, including $52 million recognized within restructuring charges, net in the consolidated statements of income which were primarily comprised of employee termination benefits. For fiscal year 2021, charges also included costs incurred as a direct result of the restructuring program, such as salaries for employees supporting the program and consulting expenses, including $128 million recognized within cost of products sold and $169 million recognized within selling, general and administrative expense in the consolidated statements of income. During fiscal year 2020, we recognized net charges of $441 million, including $118 million recognized within restructuring charges, net in the consolidated statements of income primarily comprised of employee termination benefits. For fiscal year 2020, charges also included costs incurred as a direct result of the restructuring program, such as salaries for employees supporting the program and consulting expenses, including $149 million recognized within cost of products sold and $165 million recognized within selling, general and administrative expense in the consolidated statements of income. 45 Simplification In the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, we initiated our Simplification restructuring program, designed to make the Company a more nimble and competitive organization focused on accelerating innovation, enhancing the customer experience, driving revenue growth, and winning market share, while also more efficiently and effectively leveraging our enterprise scale. Under the oversight of the portfolio leaders, this new operating model, which became fully operational the beginning of the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2021, will simplify our organizational structure and accelerate decision-making and execution. Primary activities of the restructuring program will include reorganizing our business into a portfolio-level structure, including the creation of highly focused, accountable and empowered Operating Units (OUs), consolidating operations at the enterprise level, establishing Technology Development Centers in areas where we have deep core technology competencies to be leveraged by multiple OUs, and forming dedicated sales organizations that leverage our scale but move with the same agility as our smaller, local competitors. The Simplification program designed to streamline our operating model, improve competitiveness, and enhance the customer and employee experience will result in substantial reduction in selling, general, and administrative expenses, the majority of which are expected to be achieved through the end of fiscal year 2022. Annual savings of approximately $450 million to $475 million are expected to be realized by the various components of the Simplification program. We estimate that, in connection with the Simplification restructuring program, we will recognize pre-tax exit and disposal costs and other costs across all segments of approximately $400 million to $450 million, the majority of which are expected to be incurred by the end of fiscal year 2022. Approximately three quarters of the estimated charges are related to employee termination benefits. The remaining charges are costs associated with the restructuring program, such as salaries for employees supporting the program and consulting expenses to execute the reorganization of our business into a portfolio-like structure as discussed above. These charges are recognized within restructuring charges, net and selling, general, and administrative expense in the consolidated statements of income. During fiscal year 2021, we recognized net charges of $268 million, including $241 million within restructuring charges, net in the consolidated statements of income. For fiscal year 2021, charges included $97 million of incremental defined benefit pension and post-retirement related expenses for employees that accepted voluntary early retirement packages within restructuring charges, net in the consolidated statements of income. For fiscal year 2021, charges also included costs incurred as a direct result of the restructuring program, such as salaries for employees supporting the program and consulting expenses, including $27 million recognized within selling, general, and administrative expense in the consolidated statements of income. For additional information, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Certain Litigation Charges We classify litigation charges and gains related to significant legal matters as certain litigation charges. For additional information, refer to Note 18 of the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other Operating Expense, Net Other operating expense, net primarily includes royalty income and expense, currency remeasurement and derivative gains and losses, Puerto Rico excise taxes, changes in fair value of contingent consideration, changes in amounts accrued for certain contingent liabilities for a recent acquisition, a commitment to the Medtronic Foundation, charges associated with business exits, impairment charges, in-process research and development (IPR&D) charges, and income from funded research and development arrangements. The increase in other operating expense, net from fiscal year 2020 to 2021 was primarily driven by our remeasurement and hedging programs, which, combined, resulted in a loss of $47 million for fiscal year 2021 as compared to a gain of $295 million for fiscal year 2020. Additionally, for fiscal year 2021, other operating expense, net includes a $132 million gain related to amounts accrued for certain contingent liabilities for a recent acquisition and impairment charges of $76 million related to the abandonment of certain intangible assets. Also contributing to the increase were changes in fair value of contingent consideration resulting in a loss of $36 million for fiscal year 2021 as compared to a gain of $33 million for fiscal year 2020. For fiscal year 2020, other operating expense, net includes an $80 million charge associated with a commitment to the Medtronic Foundation and charges of $52 million associated with the exit of businesses. Other Non-Operating Income, Net Other non-operating income, net includes the non-service components of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit cost, investment gains and losses, and interest income. The decrease in other non-operating income, net from fiscal year 2020 to 2021 was primarily attributable to the decrease in interest income as a result of the lower interest rate environment. Interest income was $192 million and $300 million for fiscal years 2021 and 2020, respectively. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in gains recognized on minority investments. Gains on minority investments were $61 million for fiscal year 2021 as compared to losses of $19 million for fiscal year 2020. 46 Interest Expense Interest expense includes interest incurred on our outstanding borrowings, amortization of debt issuance costs and debt premiums or discounts, amortization of gains or losses on terminated or de-designated interest rate derivative instruments, and charges recognized in connection with the tender and early redemption of senior notes. The decrease in interest expense from fiscal year 2020 to 2021 was primarily due to a decrease in charges related to debt tender and redemption transactions, which were $308 million for fiscal year 2021, as compared to $413 million for fiscal year 2020. Also contributing to the decrease was a decrease in the weighted-average interest rate of outstanding debt obligations due to the aforementioned debt issuance and tender transactions. Refer to the "Debt and Capital" section of this Management's Discussion and Analysis for additional information on the debt issuances, tenders, and early redemptions. INCOME TAXES Many of the countries we operate in have statutory tax rates lower than our U.S. statutory rate, thereby resulting in an overall effective tax rate less than the U.S. statutory rate of 21.0 percent. A significant portion of our earnings are generated from operations in Puerto Rico, Switzerland, and Ireland. The statutory tax rates for these jurisdictions range from 12.5 percent to 43.75 percent. Our earnings in Puerto Rico are subject to certain tax incentive grants which provide for tax rates lower than the country’s statutory tax rates. Unless our tax incentive grants are extended, they will expire between fiscal years 2022 and 2030. The tax incentive grants, which expired during fiscal year 2021, did not have a material impact on our financial results. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. Our effective tax rate for fiscal year 2021 was 6.8 percent, as compared to (18.5) percent in fiscal year 2020. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the impacts from certain tax adjustments and year-over-year changes in operational results by jurisdiction. Our Non-GAAP Nominal Tax Rate for fiscal year 2021 was 11.8 percent, as compared to 14.3 percent in fiscal year 2020. The decrease in our Non-GAAP Nominal Tax Rate for fiscal year 2021 as compared to fiscal year 2020 was primarily due to the year-over-year changes in operational results by jurisdiction. During fiscal year 2021, we recognized $51 million of operational tax benefits. The operational tax benefits included a $46 million benefit from excess tax benefits associated with stock-based compensation and a $5 million net benefit associated with the resolution of certain income tax audits, finalization of certain tax returns, changes to uncertain tax position reserves, legal entity reorganizations, and changes to certain deferred income tax balances. During fiscal year 2020, we recognized $138 million of operational tax benefits. The operational tax benefits included a $63 million benefit from excess tax benefits associated with stock-based compensation and a $75 million net benefit associated with the resolution of certain income tax audits, finalization of certain tax returns, changes to uncertain tax position reserves, and changes to certain deferred income tax balances. An increase in our Non-GAAP Nominal Tax Rate of one percent would result in an additional income tax provision for fiscal years 2021 and 2020 of approximately $68 million and $73 million, respectively. 47 Certain Tax Adjustments During fiscal year 2021, the net benefit from certain tax adjustments of $41 million, recognized in income tax provision (benefit) in the consolidated statement of income, included the following: • A net benefit of $106 million associated with the resolution of an audit at the IRS Appellate level for fiscal years 2012, 2013, and 2014. The issues resolved relate to the utilization of certain net operating losses and the allocation of income between Medtronic, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiary operating in Puerto Rico for businesses that are not the subject of the U.S. Tax Court Case for fiscal years 2005 and 2006. • A net cost of $73 million related to a tax basis adjustment of previously established deferred tax assets from intercompany intellectual property transactions. The cumulative amount of deferred tax benefit previously recognized from intercompany intellectual property transactions and recorded as Certain Tax Adjustments is $1.5 billion. The corresponding deferred tax assets will be amortized over a period of approximately 20 years. • A cost of $50 million associated with the amortization of the previously established deferred tax assets from intercompany intellectual property transactions. • A net cost of $25 million associated with an internal restructuring and intercompany sale of assets. • A benefit of $83 million related to the capitalization of certain research and development costs for U.S. income tax purposes and the establishment of a deferred tax asset at the U.S. federal statutory tax rate. During fiscal year 2020, the net benefit from certain tax adjustments of $1.2 billion, recognized in income tax provision (benefit) in the consolidated statement of income, included the following: • A net benefit of $63 million related to the finalization of certain state tax impacts from U.S. Tax Reform, and the issuance of certain final U.S. Treasury Regulations associated with U.S. Tax Reform. The primary impact of these regulations resulted in the Company re-establishing its permanently reinvested assertion on certain foreign earnings and reversing the previously accrued tax liability. This benefit was partially offset by additional tax associated with a previously executed internal reorganization of certain foreign subsidiaries. • A benefit of $252 million related to tax legislative changes in Switzerland, which abolished certain preferential tax regimes the Company benefited from and replaced them with a new set of internationally accepted measures. The legislation provided for higher effective tax rates but allowed for a transitional period whereby an amortizable asset was created for Swiss federal income tax purposes that will be amortized and deducted over a 10-year period. • A benefit of $658 million related to the release of a valuation allowance previously recorded against certain net operating losses. Luxembourg enacted tax legislation during the year requiring the company to reassess the realizability of certain net operating losses. The Company evaluated both the positive and negative evidence and released valuation allowance equal to the expected benefit from the utilization of certain net operating losses in connection with a planned intercompany sale of intellectual property. • A net benefit of $269 million associated with the intercompany sale of intellectual property and the establishment of a deferred tax asset. Certain tax adjustments will affect the comparability of our operating results between periods. Therefore, we consider these Non-GAAP Adjustments. Refer to the "Executive Level Overview" section of this Management's Discussion and Analysis for further discussion of these adjustments. 48 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES We are currently in a strong financial position, despite the impact COVID-19 had on our business and financial results during fiscal years 2021 and 2020. We believe our balance sheet and liquidity provide us with flexibility, and our cash, cash equivalents, and current investments, along with our credit facility and related commercial paper programs will satisfy our foreseeable operating needs. Our liquidity and capital structure are evaluated regularly within the context of our annual operating and strategic planning processes. We consider the liquidity necessary to fund our operations, which includes working capital needs, investments in research and development, property, plant, and equipment, and other operating costs. We also consider capital allocation alternatives that balance returning value to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases, satisfying maturing debt, and acquiring businesses and technology. Summary of Cash Flows The following is a summary of cash provided by (used in) operating, investing, and financing activities, the effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents, and the net change in cash and cash equivalents: Operating Activities The $994 million decrease in net cash provided was primarily driven by a decrease in cash collected from customers and an increase in cash paid for income taxes, partially offset by a decrease in cash paid to employees, a decrease in payments made for employer taxes, and a decrease in retirement benefit plan contributions. The decrease in cash collected from customers was primarily related to COVID-19 driving decreased sales in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020 and first quarter of fiscal year 2021, when compared to the prior fiscal year. The increase in cash paid for income taxes was primarily due to increased estimated federal tax payments and tax payments associated with IRS audit settlements in fiscal year 2021. Cash paid to employees decreased due to lower annual incentive plan payouts compared the prior fiscal year. Payments made for employer taxes decreased due to the deferral of payment on the Company's share of Social Security taxes allowed by the CARES Act in the current fiscal year. For information on retirement benefit plan contributions, refer to Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Investing Activities The $337 million decrease in net cash used was primarily attributable to a decrease in net purchases of investments of $1.0 billion, partially offset by a decrease in cash paid for acquisitions of $506 million as compared to fiscal year 2020. Financing Activities The $62 million decrease in net cash used included a number of largely offsetting items. Contributing to the decrease in cash used was a decrease in share repurchases of $674 million. Partially offsetting this decrease was a net decrease in short-term borrowings of $294 million and an increase in dividends paid to shareholders of $226 million. For fiscal year 2021, financing cash flows were impacted by the Mizuho Bank term loan under which we borrowed ¥300 billion in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, which was subsequently repaid in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2021. Fiscal year 2021 financing cash flows were also impacted by the issuance of $7.2 billion of Euro-denominated senior notes offset by the early redemption of $6.0 billion of senior notes for $6.3 billion of total consideration, and repayment of an additional $911 million of Euro-denominated senior notes. For comparison, financing cash flows for fiscal year 2020 reflect the issuance of $5.6 billion of Euro-denominated senior notes, offset by the tender of $5.2 billion of senior notes for $5.6 billion of total consideration. We also repaid $500 million of senior notes at maturity during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020. For more information on the aforementioned Mizuho Bank term loan, and issuances and redemptions of senior notes, refer to the Debt and Capital section. Debt and Capital Our capital structure consists of equity and interest-bearing debt. We primarily utilize unsecured senior debt obligations to meet our financing needs and, to a lesser extent, bank borrowings. From time to time, we may repurchase our outstanding debt obligations in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions. 49 Total debt at April 30, 2021 was $26.4 billion, as compared to $24.8 billion at April 24, 2020. The increase in total debt was primarily driven by fluctuations in exchange rates as it pertains to our Euro-denominated senior notes and, to a lesser extent, the net impact of the issuance and redemption of senior notes, both of which are described below. In September 2020, we issued six tranches of Euro-denominated senior notes with an aggregate principal of €6.3 billion, with maturities ranging from fiscal year 2023 to fiscal year 2051, resulting in cash proceeds of approximately $7.2 billion, net of discounts and issuance costs. The Euro-denominated debt is designated as a net investment hedge of certain of our European operations. We used the net proceeds of the offering to fund the early redemption of $6.0 billion of senior notes for $6.3 billion of total consideration in October 2020. Additionally, we used the proceeds to repay our €750 million floating rate senior notes at maturity in March 2021. We recognized a loss on debt extinguishment of $308 million in fiscal year 2021, which primarily included cash premiums and accelerated amortization of deferred financing costs and debt discounts and premiums. The loss on debt extinguishment was recognized in interest expense in the consolidated statements of income. In May 2020, we entered into an unsecured term loan agreement with Mizuho Bank, Ltd. for an aggregate principal amount of up to ¥300 billion, or approximately $2.8 billion, with a term of six months and the option to extend for an additional six months. On May 13, 2020, Medtronic Luxco borrowed the entire amount of the term loan under the Loan Agreement. The proceeds of the loan were used for general corporate purposes. The Japanese Yen denominated debt was designated as a net investment hedge of certain of our Japanese operations. On November 12, 2020, we exercised our option to extend the term of the loan for an additional six months. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2021, we de-designated the Yen denominated debt as a net investment hedge and repaid the term loan in full, including interest. We repurchase our ordinary shares from time to time as part of our focus on returning value to our shareholders. In March 2019, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of $6.0 billion of the Company's ordinary shares. There is no specific time period associated with these repurchase authorizations. During fiscal years 2021 and 2020, we repurchased a total of 4 million and 12 million shares, respectively, under these programs at an average price of $126.80 and $106.22, respectively. At April 30, 2021, we had approximately $5.4 billion remaining under the share repurchase programs authorized by our Board of Directors. For more information on credit arrangements, see Note 6 of the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Liquidity Our liquidity sources at April 30, 2021 include $3.6 billion of cash and cash equivalents and $7.2 billion of current investments. Additionally, we maintain commercial paper programs (no commercial paper outstanding at April 30, 2021) and a Credit Facility. Our investments primarily include available-for-sale debt securities, including U.S. and non-U.S. government and agency securities, corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed securities, and other asset-backed securities. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on our investments. We maintain multicurrency commercial paper programs for short-term financing, which allows us to issue unsecured commercial paper notes on a private placement basis up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of $3.5 billion. At both April 30, 2021 and April 24, 2020, we had no commercial paper outstanding. The issuance of commercial paper reduces the amount of credit available under our existing line of credit, as explained below. We also have a $3.5 billion five-year syndicated credit facility (Credit Facility), which expires in December 2025. The Credit Facility provides backup funding for the commercial paper programs and may also be used for general corporate purposes. The Credit Facility provides us with the ability to increase our borrowing capacity by an additional $1.0 billion at any time during the term of the agreement. At each anniversary date of the Credit Facility, but not more than twice prior to the maturity date, we could also request a one-year extension of the maturity date. At April 30, 2021 and April 24, 2020, no amounts were outstanding under the Credit Facility. Interest rates on advances of our Credit Facility are determined by a pricing matrix based on our long-term debt ratings assigned by Standard & Poor's Rating Services (S&P) and Moody's Investor Service (Moody’s). Facility fees are payable on the Credit Facility and are determined in the same manner as the interest rates. We are in compliance with all covenants related to the Credit Facility. 50 The following table is a summary of our S&P and Moody's long-term debt ratings and short-term debt ratings: (1)    Agency ratings are subject to change, and there is no assurance that an agency will continue to provide ratings and/or maintain its current ratings. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating agency, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. S&P and Moody's long-term debt ratings and short-term debt ratings at April 30, 2021 were unchanged as compared to the ratings at April 24, 2020. We do not expect the S&P and Moody's ratings to have a significant impact on our liquidity or future flexibility to access additional liquidity given our balance sheet, Credit Facility, and related commercial paper programs. 51 Contractual Obligations and Cash Requirements We have future contractual obligations and other minimum commercial commitments that are entered into in the normal course of business, some of which are recorded in our consolidated balance sheet. We believe our off-balance sheet arrangements do not have a material current or anticipated future effect on our consolidated earnings, financial position, and/or cash flows. Presented below is a summary of our off-balance sheet contractual obligations and other minimum commercial commitments at April 30, 2021, as well as long-term contractual obligations reflected in the balance sheet at April 30, 2021. (1) Includes commitments related to the funding of minority investments, estimated milestone payments, and royalty obligations. While it is not certain if and/or when payments will be made, the maturity dates included in the table reflect our best estimates. (2) Includes the contractual interest payments on our outstanding debt and excludes the impacts of debt premium and discount amortization. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on our debt agreements. (3) Includes inventory purchase commitments, research and development, and other arrangements that are legally binding and specify minimum purchase quantities or spending amounts. These purchase commitments do not exceed our projected requirements and are in the normal course of business. Excludes open purchase orders with a remaining term of less than one year. (4) Excludes defined benefit plan obligations, guarantee obligations, uncertain tax positions, non-current tax liabilities, and litigation settlements for which we cannot make a reliable estimate of the period of cash settlement. For further information, see Notes 13, 15, and 18 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. (5) Includes the current and non-current portion of our Senior Notes and bank borrowings. Excludes debt premium and discount, unamortized gains from terminated interest rate swap agreements, and commercial paper. See Notes 6 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on our debt agreements and interest rate swap agreements, respectively. (6) Includes the fair value of our current and non-current portions of contingent consideration. While it is not certain if and/or when payments will be made, the maturity dates included in this table reflect our best estimates. (7) Represents the tax obligations associated with the transition tax that resulted from U.S. Tax Reform. The transition tax will be paid over an eight-year period and will not accrue interest. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. In the normal course of business, we periodically enter into agreements that require us to indemnify customers or suppliers for specific risks, such as claims for injury or property damage arising as a result of our products or the negligence of our personnel or claims alleging that our products infringe third-party patents or other intellectual property. Our maximum exposure under these indemnification provisions is unable to be estimated, and we have not accrued any liabilities within our consolidated financial statements or included any indemnification provisions in the table above. Historically, we have not experienced significant losses on these types of indemnification agreements. 52 Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K provides information regarding amounts we have accrued related to legal matters. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we record a liability in our consolidated financial statements for these matters when a loss is known or considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Actual settlements may be different than estimated and could have a material effect on our consolidated earnings, financial position, and/or cash flows. We record tax liabilities in our consolidated financial statements for amounts that we expect to repatriate from subsidiaries (to the extent the repatriation would be subject to tax); however, no tax liabilities are recorded for amounts we consider to be permanently reinvested. We expect to have access to the majority of our cash flows in the future. In addition, we continue to evaluate our legal entity structure supporting our business operations, and to the extent such evaluation results in a change to our overall business structure, we may be required to accrue for additional tax obligations. Beyond the contractual obligations and other minimum commercial commitments outlined above, we have recurring cash requirements arising from the normal operation of our business that include capital expenditures, research and developments costs, and other operational costs. We believe our balance sheet and liquidity provide us with flexibility, and our cash, cash equivalents, current investments, Credit Facility and related commercial paper programs as well as our ability to generate operating cash flows will satisfy our current and future contractual obligations and cash requirements. We regularly review our capital needs and consider various investing and financing alternatives to support our requirements. ACQUISITIONS Information regarding acquisitions is included in Notes 3 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES We have used various accounting policies to prepare the consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our significant accounting policies are disclosed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements, in conformity with U.S. GAAP, requires us to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses. These estimates reflect our best judgment about economic and market conditions and the potential effects on the valuation and/or carrying value of assets and liabilities based upon relevant information available. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our critical accounting estimates include the following: Litigation Contingencies We are involved in a number of legal actions involving product liability, intellectual property and commercial disputes, shareholder related matters, environmental proceedings, tax disputes, and governmental proceedings and investigations. The outcomes of these legal actions are not completely within our control and may not be known for prolonged periods of time. In some actions, the enforcement agencies or private claimants seek damages, as well as other civil or criminal remedies (including injunctions barring the sale of products that are the subject of the proceeding), that could require significant expenditures or result in lost revenues or limit our ability to conduct business in the applicable jurisdictions. Estimating probable losses from our litigation and governmental proceedings is inherently difficult, particularly when the matters are in early procedural stages, with incomplete scientific facts or legal discovery; involve unsubstantiated or indeterminate claims for damages; potentially involve penalties, fines, or punitive damages; or could result in a change in business practice. Our significant legal proceedings are discussed in Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Income Tax Reserves We establish reserves when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, we believe that certain positions are likely to be challenged and that we may or may not prevail. Under U.S. GAAP, if we determine that a tax position is more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, based solely on the technical merits of the position, we recognize the benefit. We measure the benefit by determining the amount that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon settlement. We presume that all tax positions will be examined by a taxing authority with full knowledge of all relevant information. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. We regularly monitor our tax positions and tax liabilities. We reevaluate the technical merits of our tax positions and recognize an uncertain tax benefit, or derecognize a previously recorded tax benefit, when there is (i) a completion of a tax audit, (ii) effective settlement of an issue, (iii) a change 53 in applicable tax law including a tax case or legislative guidance, or (iv) the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations. Significant judgment is required in accounting for tax reserves. Although we believe that we have adequately provided for liabilities resulting from tax assessments by taxing authorities, positions taken by these tax authorities could have a material impact on our effective tax rate, consolidated earnings, financial position and/or cash flows. Valuation of Intangible Assets and Goodwill When we acquire a business, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded at their respective fair values at the acquisition date. Goodwill is the excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair value of net assets of acquired businesses. Intangible assets primarily include patents, trademarks, tradenames, customer relationships, purchased technology, and IPR&D. Determining the fair value of intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination requires us to make significant estimates. These estimates include the amount and timing of projected future cash flows of each project or technology, the discount rate used to discount those cash flows to present value, the assessment of the asset’s life cycle, and the consideration of legal, technical, regulatory, economic, and competitive risks. The test for goodwill impairment requires us to make several estimates to determine fair value, most of which are based on projected future cash flows. Our estimates associated with the goodwill impairment test are considered critical due to the amount of goodwill recorded on our consolidated balance sheets and the judgment required in determining fair value. We assess the impairment of goodwill at the reporting unit level annually as of the first day of the third quarter and whenever an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired. We test definite-lived intangible assets for impairment when an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate the carrying amount of the assets or asset group may be impaired. Our tests are based on future cash flows that require significant judgment with respect to future revenue and expense growth rates, appropriate discount rates, asset groupings, and other assumptions and estimates. We use estimates that are consistent with the highest and best use of the assets based on a market participant's view of the assets being evaluated. Actual results may differ from our estimates due to a number of factors including, among others, changes in competitive conditions, timing of regulatory approval, results of clinical trials, changes in worldwide economic conditions, and fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We assess the impairment of indefinite-lived intangible assets annually in the third quarter and whenever an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired. Our impairment tests of indefinite-lived intangible assets require us to make several estimates to determine fair value, including projected future cash flows and discount rates. NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Information regarding new accounting pronouncements is included in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 54 SUPPLEMENTAL GUARANTOR FINANCIAL INFORMATION Medtronic plc and Medtronic Global Holdings S.C.A. (Medtronic Luxco), a wholly-owned subsidiary guarantor, each have provided full and unconditional guarantees of the obligations of Medtronic, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary issuer, under the Senior Notes (Medtronic Senior Notes) and full and unconditional guarantees of the obligations of Covidien International Finance S.A. (CIFSA), a wholly-owned subsidiary issuer, under the Senior Notes (CIFSA Senior Notes). The guarantees of the CIFSA Senior Notes are in addition to the guarantees of the CIFSA Senior Notes by Covidien Ltd. and Covidien Group Holdings Ltd., both of which are wholly-owned subsidiary guarantors of the CIFSA Senior Notes. Medtronic plc and Medtronic, Inc. each have provided a full and unconditional guarantee of the obligations of Medtronic Luxco under the Senior Notes (Medtronic Luxco Senior Notes). The following is a summary of these guarantees: Guarantees of Medtronic Senior Notes • Parent Company Guarantor - Medtronic plc • Subsidiary Issuer - Medtronic, Inc. • Subsidiary Guarantor - Medtronic Luxco Guarantees of Medtronic Luxco Senior Notes • Parent Company Guarantor - Medtronic plc • Subsidiary Issuer - Medtronic Luxco • Subsidiary Guarantor - Medtronic, Inc. Guarantees of CIFSA Senior Notes • Parent Company Guarantor - Medtronic plc • Subsidiary Issuer - CIFSA • Subsidiary Guarantors - Medtronic Luxco, Covidien Ltd., and Covidien Group Holdings Ltd. (CIFSA Subsidiary Guarantors) The following tables present summarized financial information for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2021 for the obligor groups of Medtronic and Medtronic Luxco Senior Notes, and CIFSA Senior Notes. The obligor group consists of the parent company guarantor, subsidiary issuer, and subsidiary guarantors for the applicable senior notes. The summarized financial information is presented after elimination of (i) intercompany transactions and balances among the guarantors and issuers and (ii) equity in earnings from and investments in any subsidiary that is a non-guarantor or issuer. The summarized results of operations information for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2021 was as follows: The summarized balance sheet information for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2021 was as follows: (1) The Medtronic Senior Notes and Medtronic Luxco Senior Notes obligor group consists of the following entities: Medtronic plc, Medtronic Luxco, and Medtronic, Inc. Refer to the guarantee summary above for further details. (2) The CIFSA Senior Notes obligor group consists of the following entities: Medtronic plc, Medtronic Luxco, CIFSA, and CIFSA Subsidiary Guarantors. Please refer to the guarantee summary above for further details. (3) Includes receivables due from non-guarantor subsidiaries of $21.4 billion and $9.0 billion for Medtronic & Medtronic Luxco Senior Notes, and CIFSA Senior Notes, respectively. (4) Includes loans receivable due from non-guarantor subsidiaries of $6.5 billion and $8.0 billion for Medtronic & Medtronic Luxco Senior Notes, and CIFSA Senior Notes, respectively. (5) Includes payables due to non-guarantor subsidiaries of $26.4 billion and $17.3 billion for Medtronic & Medtronic Luxco Senior Notes, and CIFSA Senior Notes, respectively. (6) Includes loans payable due to non-guarantor subsidiaries of $29.0 billion and $43.5 billion for Medtronic & Medtronic Luxco Senior Notes, and CIFSA Senior Notes, respectively. 55