********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this section and elsewhere in this report or in any other of our filings with the SEC could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In evaluating us, you should consider carefully, among other things, the risks described below. Summary of Risk Factors The following is a summary of the principal risks that could adversely affect our business, operations and financial results. Risks Related to Our Substantial Financial Commitments • Our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments, including the fixed component of our rent payments and guarantees we provide on the indebtedness of Bellagio BREIT Venture and MGP BREIT Venture could adversely affect our operations and financial results and impact our ability to satisfy our obligations. • Current and future economic, capital and credit market conditions could adversely affect our ability to service our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments or make planned expenditures. • The agreements governing our senior credit facility and other senior indebtedness contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity, and therefore could adversely affect our results of operations. • We are required to pay a significant portion of our cash flows as rent, which could adversely affect our ability to fund our operations and growth initiatives, service our indebtedness and limit our ability to react to competitive and economic changes. Risks Related to Our Announced Transactions • The VICI Transaction, The Cosmopolitan transaction, and The Mirage transaction each remain subject to the satisfaction of certain closing conditions, including the receipt of certain regulatory approvals, and any anticipated benefits from such transactions may take longer to realize than expected or may not be realized at all. • The potential litigation instituted against us, our transaction counterparties, or our respective directors challenging the VICI Transaction may prevent such transaction from becoming effective within the expected timeframe or at all. Risks Related to Our Business, Industry, and Market Conditions • The global COVID-19 pandemic has continued to materially impact our business, financial results and liquidity, and such impact could worsen and last for an unknown period of time. • We face significant competition with respect to destination travel locations generally and with respect to our peers in the industries in which we compete, including increased competition through online sports betting and iGaming, and failure to compete effectively could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. • Our business is affected by economic and market conditions in the jurisdictions in which we operate and in the locations in which our customers reside. • We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of our cost savings initiatives, including those associated with our MGM 2020 Plan. 15 • Our ability to pay ongoing regular dividends to our stockholders is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and may be limited by our holding company structure, existing and future debt agreements entered into by us or our subsidiaries and state law requirements. • All of our domestic gaming facilities are leased and could experience risks associated with leased property, including risks relating to lease termination, lease extensions, charges and our relationship with the lessor, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. • Paul Salem, our Chairman, Daniel J. Taylor, one of our directors, and Corey Sanders, and John M. McManus, members of our senior management, may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their positions at MGP. • Despite our ability to exercise control over the affairs of MGP as a result of our ownership of the single outstanding Class B share of MGP, MGP has adopted a policy under which certain transactions with us, including transactions involving consideration in excess of $25 million, must be approved in accordance with certain specified procedures, which could affect our ability to execute our operational and strategic objectives. • Because a significant number of our major gaming resorts are concentrated on the Las Vegas Strip, we are subject to greater risks than a gaming company that is more geographically diversified. • We extend credit to a large portion of our customers and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables. • We may incur impairments to goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, or long-lived assets which could negatively affect our future profits. • Leisure and business travel, especially travel by air, are particularly susceptible to global geopolitical events, such as terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or acts of war or hostility or the outbreak of infectious diseases. • Co-investing in properties or businesses, including our investment in BetMGM, decreases our ability to manage risk. • Any of our future construction, development or expansion projects will be subject to significant development and construction risks, which could have a material adverse impact on related project timetables, costs and our ability to complete the projects. • Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer. In addition, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain similar insurance coverage in the future. • Any failure to protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on the value of our brand names and adversely affect our business. • A significant portion of our labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements. • Our business is particularly sensitive to energy prices and a rise in energy prices could harm our operating results. • We may seek to expand through investments in other businesses and properties or through alliances or acquisitions, and we may also seek to divest some of our properties and other assets, any of which may be unsuccessful. • The failure to maintain the integrity of our computer systems and customer information could result in damage to our reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits and restrictions on our use of data. • We are subject to risks related to corporate social responsibility and reputation. • We are subject to risks and costs related to climate change. Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters and Changes in Public Policy • Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations may adversely affect our business and results of operations. • Any violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or any other similar anti-corruption laws could have a negative impact on us. • If the jurisdictions in which we operate increase gaming taxes and fees, as well as other taxes and fees, our results could be adversely affected. • The future recognition of our foreign tax credit deferred tax asset is uncertain, and the amount of valuation allowance we may apply against such deferred tax asset may change materially in future periods. • We face risks related to pending claims that have been, or future claims that may be, brought against us. Risks Related to Our Macau Operations • We have agreed not to have any interest or involvement in gaming businesses in China, Macau, Hong Kong and Taiwan, other than through MGM China. • The Macau government can terminate MGM Grand Paradise’s subconcession under certain circumstances without compensating MGM Grand Paradise, exercise its redemption right with respect to the subconcession, or refuse to grant MGM Grand Paradise an extension of the subconcession in 2022, or MGM Grand Paradise may be unsuccessful in obtaining a gaming concession when a new public tender is held by the Macau government, any of 16 which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. • We are subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the United States. • Conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of MGM China, the holding company for MGM Grand Paradise which owns and operates MGM Macau and MGM Cotai. For a more complete discussion of the material risks facing our business, please see below. Risks Related to Our Substantial Financial Commitments Our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments, including the fixed component of our rent payments and guarantees we provide of the indebtedness of Bellagio BREIT Venture and MGP BREIT Venture could adversely affect our operations and financial results and impact our ability to satisfy our obligations . As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately $12.9 billion of principal amount of indebtedness outstanding on a consolidated basis, including $4.3 billion of outstanding indebtedness of the Operating Partnership and $3.1 billion of outstanding indebtedness of MGM China. Any increase in the interest rates applicable to our existing or future borrowings would increase the cost of our indebtedness and reduce the cash flow available to fund our other liquidity needs. We do not guarantee MGM China’s or the Operating Partnership’s obligations under their respective debt agreements and, to the extent MGM China or the Operating Partnership were to cease to produce cash flow sufficient to service their indebtedness, our ability to make additional investments into such entities is limited by the covenants in our existing senior credit facility. In addition, our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could have important negative consequences on us, including: • increasing our exposure to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital requirements, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy (including returning value to our shareholders) or other general operating requirements; • making it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness; or • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less-leveraged competitors. We currently also provide shortfall guarantees of the $3.01 billion and $3.0 billion principal amount of indebtedness (and any interest accrued and unpaid thereon) of Bellagio BREIT Venture and MGP BREIT Venture, respectively. The terms of each guarantee provide that, after the lenders have exhausted certain remedies to collect on the obligations under the underlying indebtedness, we would then be responsible for any shortfall between the value of the collateral and the debt obligation, which amount may be material, and we may not have sufficient cash on hand to fund any such obligation to the extent it is triggered in the future. If we do not have sufficient cash on hand, we may need to raise capital, including incurring additional indebtedness, in order to satisfy our obligation. There can be no assurance that any financing will be available to us, or, if available, will be on terms that are satisfactory to us. Moreover, our businesses are capital intensive. For our owned, leased and managed resorts to remain attractive and competitive, we must periodically invest significant capital to keep the properties well-maintained, modernized and refurbished. The leases for our operating properties have fixed rental payments (with annual escalators) and also require us to apply a percentage of net revenues generated at the leased properties to capital expenditures at those properties. Such investments require an ongoing supply of cash and, to the extent that we cannot fund expenditures from cash generated by operations, funds must be borrowed or otherwise obtained. Similarly, development projects, including any potential future development of an integrated resort in Japan, strategic initiatives, including positioning BetMGM as a leader in online sports betting and iGaming, and acquisitions could require significant capital commitments, the incurrence of additional debt, guarantees of third-party debt or the incurrence of contingent liabilities, any or all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Current and future economic, capital and credit market conditions could adversely affect our ability to service our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments or make planned expenditures . Our ability to make payments on our substantial indebtedness and other significant financial commitments, including the rent payments under our leases, and to fund planned or committed capital expenditures and other investments depends on our ability to generate cash flow, receive distributions from our unconsolidated affiliates and subsidiaries (including MGM China and the Operating Partnership), and borrow under our senior credit facility or incur new indebtedness. In 2020 and 2021, the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in significant deterioration to the global economy, and substantial declines in our revenues from operations and expected distributions from our unconsolidated affiliates and subsidiaries. We expect that the recent 17 emergence and global spread of COVID-19 variants may continue to impact consumer spending levels in 2022 and potentially thereafter, and if we fail to generate cash sufficient to fund our liquidity needs or satisfy the financial and other covenants in our debt and lease instruments, we cannot assure you that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior secured credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or fund our other liquidity needs or that we will be able to access the capital markets in the future to borrow additional debt on terms favorable to us, or at all. In addition, we have a significant amount of indebtedness maturing in 2022, and thereafter. Our ability to fund or timely refinance and replace our indebtedness will depend upon the economic and credit market conditions discussed above. If we are unable to fund or refinance our indebtedness on a timely basis, we might be forced to seek alternate forms of financing, dispose of certain assets or minimize capital expenditures and other investments. There is no assurance that any of these alternatives would be available to us, if at all, on satisfactory terms, on terms that would not be disadvantageous to us, or on terms that would not require us to breach the terms and conditions of our existing or future debt agreements or leases. The agreements governing our senior credit facility and other senior indebtedness contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity, and therefore could adversely affect our results of operations . Covenants governing our senior secured credit facility and certain of our debt securities restrict, among other things, our ability to: • pay dividends or distributions, repurchase equity, prepay certain debt or make certain investments; • incur additional debt; • incur liens on assets; • sell assets or consolidate with another company or sell all or substantially all of our assets; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • allow certain subsidiaries to transfer assets or enter into certain agreements; and • enter into sale and lease-back transactions. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. The breach of any such covenants or obligations not otherwise waived or cured could result in a default under the applicable debt obligations and could trigger acceleration of those obligations, which in turn could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements governing our long-term indebtedness. Any default under our senior credit facility or the indentures governing our other debt could adversely affect our growth, our financial condition, our results of operations and our ability to make payments on our debt and other financial commitments. In addition, each of MGM China and the Operating Partnership has issued debt securities and is a borrower under credit facilities, all of which contain covenants that restrict the respective borrower’s ability to engage in certain transactions, require them to satisfy certain financial covenants and impose certain operating and financial restrictions on them and their respective subsidiaries. These restrictions include, among other things, limitations on their ability to pay dividends or distributions to us, incur additional debt, make investments or engage in other businesses, merge or consolidate with other companies, or transfer or sell assets. We are required to pay a significant portion of our cash flows as rent, which could adversely affect our ability to fund our operations and growth initiatives, service our indebtedness and limit our ability to react to competitive and economic changes . As of December 31, 2021 we are required to make annual rent payments of $1.6 billion, in the aggregate, under the triple-net lease agreements, which leases are also subject to annual escalators as described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The leases also require us to spend a certain amount on capital expenditures at the leased properties. In addition, the leases governing the Bellagio, MGM Grand Las Vegas, Mandalay Bay, Aria (including Vdara) real estate assets require us to comply with certain financial covenants which, if not met, will require us to deposit cash collateral or issue letters of credit for the benefit of the applicable landlord equal to 1 year of rent under the MGM Grand Las Vegas and Mandalay Bay lease and the Aria lease and 2 years of rent under the Bellagio lease. As a result of the foregoing rent and capital expenditure obligations, our ability to fund our operations, raise capital, make acquisitions, make investments, service our debt and otherwise respond to competitive and economic changes may be adversely affected. For example, our obligations under the leases may: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness and to obtain additional indebtedness; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to making rent payments, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, development projects, pay dividends, repurchase shares and other general corporate purposes; 18 • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • restrict our ability to make acquisitions, divestitures and engage in other significant transactions; and • cause us to lose our rights with respect to the applicable leased properties if we fail to pay rent or other amounts or otherwise default on the leases. Any of the above factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Announced Transactions The VICI Transaction, The Cosmopolitan transaction and The Mirage transaction each remain subject to the satisfaction of certain closing conditions, including the receipt of certain regulatory approvals, and any anticipated benefits from such transactions may take longer to realize than expected or may not be realized at all. Each of the VICI Transaction, The Cosmopolitan transaction and The Mirage transaction is subject to certain closing conditions, which may not be satisfied within the anticipated timeframe or at all. For example, completion of the transactions remains subject to the receipt of certain regulatory approvals. There can be no assurance that any required regulatory approvals will be obtained, and the regulatory authorities from which approvals are required may impose conditions on the consummation of the transaction or require changes to the terms of the transaction or agreements to be entered into in connection with the transaction. Such conditions or changes and the process of obtaining regulatory approvals could have the effect of delaying or impeding the completion of the transactions, which might reduce the anticipated benefits to us of the transaction or have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The completion of the VICI Transaction is also subject to the satisfaction of additional closing conditions, including, among others, (i) receipt of approval of VICI’s shareholders (which was obtained on October 29, 2021), (ii) the absence of any restraining order, injunction or other judgment, order or decree from any applicable governmental authority prohibiting the consummation of the transaction, (iii) the effectiveness of the registration statement for VICI’s shares to be issued in the VICI Transaction and the authorization for listing of those shares on the New York Stock Exchange, (iv) the absence of a material adverse effect on the parties to the master transaction agreement, (v) the accuracy of each party’s representations and warranties in the master transaction agreement, subject to customary materiality standards, and (vi) compliance of each party with its respective covenants under the master transaction agreement. No assurance can be given that these or any other required conditions to closing will be satisfied. If the conditions precedent to the VICI Transaction are not satisfied, the VICI Transaction will not be completed unless such conditions are validly waived. Such conditions may jeopardize or delay the completion of the transaction or may reduce the anticipated benefits of the transaction. If any of the transactions are not completed, or are not completed on a timely basis, our business may be adversely affected and, without realizing any of the benefits of having completed such transactions, we may be subject to additional risks, costs and expenses, including, but not limited to, the following: • we will be required to pay our costs relating to such transactions, such as legal, accounting, financial advisory and printing fees, whether or not the transactions are completed; • the diversion of time and resources committed by our management to matters relating to the transactions could otherwise have been devoted to pursuing other beneficial opportunities; • we may be subject to negative publicity or be negatively perceived by the investment or business communities as a result of the failure to consummate any or all of the transactions; • the price of our shares may decline to the extent that the current market price of our shares reflects a higher price than it otherwise would have based on the assumption that any or all of the transactions will be consummated; • we would have incurred significant expenses relating to such transactions that we may be unable to recover, including termination fees if applicable; and • we may be subject to litigation related to the failure to consummate the transactions or to perform our obligations under the respective transaction agreements. In addition, we entered into the transactions as part of our current growth strategy. Even if the transactions are completed as currently anticipated, there can be no assurances that any anticipated benefits from the transactions will be realized as expected or that such benefits will be achieved within the anticipated time frame or at all. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of the transactions could adversely affect our results of operations or cash flows, cause dilution to our earnings per share, decrease or delay any accretive effect of such transactions and negatively impact the price of our common stock. The potential litigation instituted against us, our transaction counterparties, or our respective directors challenging the proposed VICI Transaction may prevent such transaction from becoming effective within the expected timeframe or at all. Potential litigation related to the VICI Transaction may result in injunctive or other relief prohibiting, delaying or otherwise adversely affecting the parties’ ability to complete the VICI Transaction. One of the conditions to the 19 VICI Transaction under the master transaction agreement is that no temporary restraining order, preliminary or permanent injunction or other judgment, order or decree issued by any governmental authority of competent jurisdiction prohibiting consummation of the VICI Transaction or any other transactions contemplated by the master transaction agreement shall be in effect. Accordingly, any such injunctive or other relief may prevent the VICI Transaction from becoming effective within the expected timeframe or at all. In addition, defending against such claims may be expensive and divert management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business and the businesses of the counterparties to such transactions. Risks Related to Our Business, Industry, and Market Conditions The global COVID-19 pandemic has continued to materially impact our business, financial results and liquidity, and such impact could worsen and last for an unknown period of time. As of the date of this annual report, there continues to be uncertainty around the COVID-19 pandemic, its duration, and its impact on U.S. and global economic activity and consumer behavior. The omicron variant of COVID-19, which appears to be the most transmissible and contagious variant to date, has caused an increase in COVID-19 cases globally. The impact of the omicron variant, or of any other variants that may emerge, cannot be predicted at this time, and could depend on numerous factors, including the availability of vaccines in different parts of the world, vaccination rates among the population, the effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines against the variants, and the response by governmental bodies to reinstate mandated business closures, orders to “shelter in place,” occupancy limitations, and travel and transportation restrictions. While restrictions have eased throughout 2021, new restrictions to combat the spread of the variants, such as restrictions and bans on travel or transportation, stay-at-home directives, limitations on the size of gatherings, closures of work facilities, schools, public buildings and businesses, cancellation of events, including sporting events, concerts, conferences and meetings, and quarantines and lock-downs may be put into place in the future. In addition, the spread of new variants, including omicron, has had a material impact on domestic and international travel, which has resulted in reduced demand for hotel rooms, convention space and other casino resorts amenities. In Macau, while all of our properties were open during 2021, several travel and entry restrictions were in place in Macau, Hong Kong and mainland China (including the temporary suspension of ferry services between Hong Kong and Macau, the nucleic acid test result certificate and mandatory quarantine requirements for returning residents, for visitors from Hong Kong, Taiwan, and certain regions in mainland China, and bans on entry on other visitors) which significantly impacted visitation to MGM Macau and MGM Cotai. In addition, from time to time during 2021 local COVID-19 cases were identified in Macau. Upon such occurrences, a state of immediate prevention was declared and mass mandatory nucleic acid testing was imposed in Macau, the validity period of negative test results for re-entry into mainland China was shortened and quarantine requirements were imposed, certain events were cancelled or suspended, and in some instances certain entertainment and leisure facilities were closed throughout Macau. Although gaming and hotel operations have remained open during these states of immediate prevention, such measures have had a negative effect on MGM Grand Paradise's operations and it is uncertain whether further closures, including the closure of MGM Grand Paradise's properties, or travel restrictions to Macau will be implemented if additional local COVID-19 cases are identified. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic and new variants continue to impact our business, results of operations, and financial results, including the duration and magnitude of such effects, will depend on numerous evolving factors that we may not be able to accurately predict or assess, including, but not limited to: the duration and scope of the pandemic (and whether there is a, or multiple, further resurgences in the future); the efficacy of the vaccine against existing and new variants of the COVID-19 virus; the adoption rate of vaccines and the ability to effectively and efficiently distribute vaccines domestically and internationally to allow travel to resume to pre-pandemic levels; the negative impact the pandemic has on global and regional economies and economic activity, including the duration and magnitude of its impact on unemployment rates and consumer discretionary spending; its short and longer-term impact on the demand for travel, transient and group business, and levels of consumer confidence even after travel advisories and restrictions are lifted; our and our business partners' ability to successfully navigate the impacts of the pandemic; actions governments, businesses and individuals take in response to the pandemic (including the rise of variant strains of the virus), such as limiting or banning travel and limiting or banning leisure, casino and entertainment (including sporting events) activities, including the complete or partial closures of our properties; and how quickly economies, travel activity, and demand for gaming, entertainment and leisure activities recovers after the pandemic subsides. We may also face unforeseen liability or be subject to additional obligations as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, including as a result of claims alleging exposure to COVID-19 in connection with our operations or facilities or to the extent we are subject to a governmental enforcement action as a result of health and safety compliance. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic may also have the effect of exacerbating many of the other risks described in this section or in any other filings with the SEC. As a result of the foregoing, we cannot predict the ultimate scope, duration and impact the COVID-19 pandemic will have on our results of operations, but it may continue to have a material impact on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations (including revenues and profitability) and stock price. 20 We face significant competition with respect to destination travel locations generally and with respect to our peers in the industries in which we compete, including increased competition through online sports betting and iGaming, and failure to compete effectively could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows . The hotel, resort, entertainment, and gaming industries are highly competitive. We do not believe that our competition is limited to a particular geographic area, and hotel, resort, entertainment, and gaming operations in other states or countries, as well as the increased availability of online sports betting and iGaming, could attract our customers. To the extent that new casinos enter our markets or hotel room capacity is expanded by others in major destination locations, competition will increase. Major competitors, including potential new entrants, may also expand their hotel room capacity, expand their range of amenities, improve their level of service, or construct new resorts in Las Vegas, Macau or in the domestic regional markets in which we operate, all of which could attract our customers. Also, the growth of retail gaming in areas outside Las Vegas has increased the competition faced by our operations in Las Vegas and elsewhere. For instance, local referendums were recently passed to allow retail gaming in Virginia and Nebraska, with active lobbying occurring in additional states. While we believe our principal competitors are major gaming and hospitality resorts with well-established and recognized brands, we also compete against smaller hotel offerings and peer-to-peer inventory sources, which allow travelers to book short-term rentals of homes and apartments from owners. We expect that we will continue to face increased competition from new channels of distribution, innovations in consumer-facing technology platforms and other transformations in the travel industry that could impact our ability to attract and retain customers and related business. We have also seen significant expansion across the United States in legalized forms of iGaming and online sports betting and expect additional jurisdictions will likely legalize iGaming and online sports betting in the future. We participate in the domestic iGaming and online sports betting market through our venture, BetMGM, which faces significant competition from other industry participants as well as the broader gaming and entertainment industries. If BetMGM is unable to sustain or grow interest in its offerings it may not be able to gain the scale necessary to successfully compete in the growing market and, as a result, we may not receive the anticipated benefits from our investment. In addition, the expansion of iGaming, online sports betting, and other types of gaming may further compete with our land-based operations by reducing customer visitation and spend at our properties. In addition, competition could increase if changes in gaming restrictions in the United States and elsewhere are enacted, including the addition of new gaming establishments located closer to our customers than our casinos. For example, while our Macau operations compete to some extent with casinos located elsewhere in or near Asia, certain areas in the region have legalized casino gaming (including Japan) and others (such as Taiwan and Thailand) may legalize casino gaming (or iGaming) in the future. Furthermore, currently MGM Grand Paradise holds one of only six gaming concessions authorized by the Macau government to operate casinos in Macau. If the Macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in Macau through the grant of additional concessions or if current concessionaires and subconcessionaires open additional facilities, we would face increased competition. Similarly, as a result of Macau’s Gaming Inspection and Co-ordination Bureau increasing scrutiny and restrictions imposed on gaming promoters, we along with certain other casino operators in Macau, suspended our primary gaming promoters, which has led to substantial declines in revenues from gaming promoters. As a result, we expect competition for the mass market segment amongst Macau operators will grow and if we are unable to maintain and further develop our mass market business and replace revenue previously obtained through use of gaming promoters, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Most jurisdictions where casino gaming is currently permitted place numerical and/or geographical limitations on the issuance of new gaming licenses. Although a number of jurisdictions in the United States and foreign countries are considering legalizing or expanding casino gaming, in some cases new gaming operations may be restricted to specific locations and we expect that there will be intense competition for any attractive new opportunities (which may include acquisitions of existing properties) that do arise. In addition to competition with other hotels, resorts and casinos, we compete with destination travel locations outside of the markets in which we operate. Our failure to compete successfully in our various markets and to continue to attract customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business is affected by economic and market conditions in the jurisdictions in which we operate and in the locations in which our customers reside . Our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending and corporate spending on conventions, trade shows and business development. Adverse macroeconomic conditions, including inflation, economic contraction, economic uncertainty or the perception by our customers of weak or weakening economic conditions may cause a decline in demand for hotels, casino resorts, trade shows and conventions, and for the type of luxury amenities we offer. In addition, changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences could be driven by factors such as the increased cost of travel, an unstable job market, perceived or actual disposable consumer income and wealth, outbreaks of contagious diseases or fears of war and acts of terrorism or other 21 acts of violence. Consumer preferences also evolve over time due to a variety of factors, including demographic changes, which, for instance, have resulted in recent growth in consumer demand for non-gaming offerings. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the preferences of consumers and timely react to these trends, and any failure to do so may negatively impact our results of operations. In particular, Aria, Bellagio and MGM Grand Las Vegas may be affected by economic conditions in the Far East, and all of our Nevada resorts are affected by economic conditions in the United States, and California in particular. A recession, economic slowdown or any other significant economic condition, including inflationary pressures, affecting consumers, corporations, or the supply chain, generally is likely to cause a reduction in visitation to our resorts, which would adversely affect our operating results. In addition, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, our business has also been impacted by labor shortages and global supply chain disruptions. If we are unable to hire and retain sufficient employees to operate our properties or procure necessary supplies, our business, results of operations and reputation could be negatively impacted. In addition, since we expect a significant number of customers to come to MGM Macau and MGM Cotai (and, to a lesser extent, our domestic properties) from mainland China, general economic, regulatory, geopolitical and market conditions in China could impact our financial prospects. Any slowdown in economic growth or changes to China’s current restrictions on travel and currency conversion or movements, including continued market impacts from the COVID-19 outbreak and market impacts resulting from China’s anti-corruption campaign and related tightening of liquidity provided by non-bank lending entities and cross-border currency monitoring (including increased restrictions on Union Pay withdrawals and other ATM limits on the withdrawal of patacas and facial recognition technology on ATM machines in Macau to strictly enforce the "know your customer" regulations for mainland Chinese bank cardholders), could disrupt the number of visitors from mainland China and/or the amounts they are willing to spend at our properties. It is unclear whether these and other measures will continue to be in effect, become more restrictive, or be readopted in the future. These developments have had, and any future policy developments that may be implemented may have, the effect of reducing the number of visitors to Macau from mainland China, which could adversely impact tourism and the gaming industry in Macau. Furthermore, our operations in Macau may be impacted by competition for limited labor resources and our ability to retain and hire employees. We compete with a large number of casino resorts for a limited number of employees and we anticipate that such competition will grow in light of the opening of new developments in Macau. While we seek employees from outside of Macau to adequately staff our resorts, certain Macau government policies limit our ability to import labor in certain job classifications (for instance, the Macau government requires that we only hire Macau residents as dealers in our casinos) and any future government policies that freeze or cancel our ability to import labor could cause labor costs to increase (including limitations on our ability to import labor as a result of temporary travel restrictions adopted as part of the COVID-19 mitigation efforts). Finally, because additional casino projects have commenced operations and other projects are under construction, the existing transportation infrastructure may need to be expanded to accommodate increased visitation to Macau. If transportation facilities to and from Macau are inadequate to meet the demands of an increased volume of gaming customers visiting Macau, the desirability of Macau as a gaming destination, as well as the results of operations at our developments in Macau, could be negatively impacted. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of our cost savings initiatives, including those associated with our MGM 2020 Plan. As part of our MGM 2020 Plan, we undertook several initiatives to reduce costs and further position us for growth by the end of 2020. In addition, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented several additional cost savings initiatives in 2020 to improve our operating model. However, we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully implement these cost savings initiatives in the time frames contemplated or at all, that we will ultimately be able to realize the expected benefits of these or any other cost savings initiatives, or that any new additional costs or increases in existing expenses will not offset any cost savings. If we fail to achieve the anticipated benefits of any current or future cost savings initiatives, our profitability and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Our ability to pay ongoing regular dividends to our stockholders is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and may be limited by our holding company structure, existing and future debt agreements entered into by us or our subsidiaries and state law requirements. During the COVID-19 pandemic we significantly reduced our historic dividend rate. Although we intend to pay ongoing regular quarterly cash dividends on our common stock; our board of directors may, in its sole discretion, change the amount or frequency of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is restricted by certain covenants in our credit agreement, and because we are a holding company with no material direct operations, we are dependent on receiving cash from our operating subsidiaries to generate the funds from operations necessary to pay dividends on our common stock. Our subsidiaries ability to generate the cash flow necessary to maintain quarterly dividend payments on our common stock is subject to their operating results, cash requirements and financial condition. In addition, our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions to us is subject to any applicable provisions of state law that may limit the amount of funds available to us, and compliance with covenants and financial ratios related to existing or future agreements governing any indebtedness at such subsidiaries and any limitations in other agreements such subsidiaries may have with third parties. In addition, each of the companies in our 22 corporate chain must manage its assets, liabilities and working capital in order to meet all of their respective cash obligations. As a consequence of these various limitations and restrictions, future dividend payments may be further reduced or eliminated in their entirety. Any change in the level of our dividends or the suspension of the payment thereof could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. All of our domestic gaming facilities are leased and could experience risks associated with leased property, including risks relating to lease termination, lease extensions, charges and our relationship with the lessor, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. All of our domestic properties are subject to triple-net leases that, in addition to rent, require us to pay: (1) all facility maintenance, (2) all insurance required in connection with the leased properties and the business conducted on the leased properties, (3) taxes levied on or with respect to the leased properties (other than taxes on the income of the lessor), (4) all capital expenditures, and (5) all utilities and other services necessary or appropriate for the leased properties and the business conducted on the leased properties. We are responsible for paying these expenses notwithstanding the fact that many of the benefits received in exchange for such costs shall accrue in part to the landlords as the owners of the associated facilities. Furthermore, our obligation to pay rent as well as the other costs described above is absolute in virtually all circumstances, regardless of the performance of the properties and other circumstances that might abate rent in leases that now place these risks on the tenant, such as certain events of casualty and condemnation. Finally, our leases limit our ability to cease operations at our properties, subject to certain limited exceptions. Paul Salem, our Chairman, Daniel J. Taylor, one of our directors, and Corey Sanders, and John M. McManus, members of our senior management, may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their positions at MGP . Paul Salem serves as our Chairman and as the Chairman of MGP. In addition, Daniel J. Taylor, one of our directors, is also a director of MGP, and Corey Sanders and John M. McManus, members of our senior management, are also directors of MGP. While we have procedures in place to address such situations and the organizational documents with respect to MGP contain provisions that reduce or eliminate duties (including fiduciary duties) to any MGP shareholder to the fullest extent permitted by law, these overlapping positions could nonetheless create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when our or MGP’s management and directors pursue the same corporate opportunities, such as potential acquisition targets, or face decisions that could have different implications for us and MGP. Further, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between us and MGP (or its subsidiaries) regarding the terms of the agreements governing the separation and the relationship, between us and MGP, such as under the master lease. Potential conflicts of interest could also arise if we and MGP enter into any commercial or other adverse arrangements with each other in the future. Despite our ability to exercise control over the affairs of MGP as a result of our ownership of the single outstanding Class B share of MGP, MGP has adopted a policy under which certain transactions with us, including transactions involving consideration in excess of $25 million, must be approved in accordance with certain specified procedures, which could affect our ability to execute our operational and strategic objectives. We own the single outstanding Class B share of MGP. The Class B Share is a non-economic interest in MGP which does not provide its holder any rights to profits or losses or any rights to receive distributions from operations of MGP or upon liquidation or winding up of MGP, and which represents a majority of the voting power of MGP’s shares so long as the holder of the Class B share and its controlled affiliates’ (excluding MGP) aggregate beneficial ownership of the combined economic interests in MGP and the Operating Partnership does not fall below 30%. We, therefore, have the ability to exercise significant control over MGP’s affairs, including control over the outcome of all matters submitted to MGP’s shareholders for approval. MGP’s operating agreement, however, provides that whenever a potential conflict of interest exists or arises between us or any of our affiliates (other than MGP and its subsidiaries), on the one hand, and MGP or any of its subsidiaries, on the other hand, any resolution or course of action by MGP’s board of directors in respect of such conflict of interest shall be conclusively deemed to be fair and reasonable to MGP if it is (i) approved by a majority of a conflicts committee which consists solely of “independent” directors (which MGP refers to as “Special Approval”) (such independence determined in accordance with the NYSE’s listing standards, the standards established by the Exchange Act to serve on an audit committee of a board of directors and certain additional independence requirements in our operating agreement), (ii) determined by MGP’s board of directors to be fair and reasonable to MGP or (iii) approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of MGP’s outstanding voting shares (excluding voting shares owned by us and our affiliates). Furthermore, MGP’s operating agreement provides that any transaction with a value, individually or in the aggregate, over $25 million between us or any of our affiliates (other than MGP and its subsidiaries), on the one hand, and MGP or any of its subsidiaries, on the other hand (any such transaction (other than the exercise of rights by us or any of our affiliates (other than MGP and its subsidiaries) under any of the material agreements entered into on the closing day of MGP’s formation transactions), a “Threshold Transaction”), shall be permitted only if (i) Special Approval is obtained or (ii) such transaction is approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of MGP’s outstanding voting shares (excluding voting shares owned by us and our affiliates). As a result, certain transactions, including any Threshold Transactions that we may want to pursue with MGP and that could have significant benefit to us may require Special Approval. There can be no assurance that the required approval will be 23 obtained with respect to these transactions either from a conflicts committee comprised of independent MGP directors or the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares not held by us and our affiliates. The failure to obtain such requisite consent could materially affect our ability and the cost to execute our operational and strategic objectives. Because a significant number of our major gaming resorts are concentrated on the Las Vegas Strip, we are subject to greater risks than a gaming company that is more geographically diversified . Given that a significant number of our major resorts are concentrated on the Las Vegas Strip, our business may be significantly affected by risks common to the Las Vegas tourism industry. For example, the cost and availability of air services and the impact of any events that disrupt air travel to and from Las Vegas can adversely affect our business. We cannot control the number or frequency of flights to or from Las Vegas, but we rely on air traffic for a significant portion of our visitors. Reductions in flights by major airlines as a result of higher fuel prices or lower demand, as a result of limitations on travel imposed to address the COVID-19 pandemic or otherwise, can impact the number of visitors to our resorts. Additionally, there is one principal interstate highway between Las Vegas and Southern California, where a large number of our customers reside. Capacity constraints of that highway or any other traffic disruptions may also affect the number of customers who visit our facilities. We extend credit to a large portion of our customers and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables . We conduct a portion of our gaming activities on a credit basis through the issuance of markers which are unsecured instruments. Table games players typically are issued more markers than slot players, and high-end players typically are issued more markers than patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. High-end gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a significant positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. Furthermore, the loss or a reduction in the play of the most significant of these high-end customers could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We issue markers to those customers whose level of play and financial resources warrant, in the opinion of management, an extension of credit. Uncollectible receivables from high-end customers could have a significant impact on our results of operations. While gaming debts evidenced by markers and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws of Nevada, and Nevada judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states under the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the U.S. Constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. Although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the U.S. of foreign debtors may be reached to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from United States courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. Furthermore, we expect that MGM China will be able to enforce its gaming debts only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including Macau. To the extent MGM China gaming customers are from other jurisdictions, MGM China may not have access to a forum in which it will be able to collect all of its gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and MGM China may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. Moreover, under applicable law, MGM China remains obligated to pay taxes on uncollectible winnings from customers. Even where gaming debts are enforceable, they may not be collectible. Our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. We may incur impairments to goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, or long-lived assets which could negatively affect our future profits . We review our goodwill, intangible assets and long-lived assets on an annual basis and during interim reporting periods in accordance with the authoritative guidance. Significant negative trends, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates or lack of growth have resulted in write-downs and impairment charges in the past and, if one or more of such events occurs in the future, additional impairment charges or write-downs may be required in future periods. If we are required to record additional impairment charges or write-downs, this could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations. Leisure and business travel , especially travel by air , are particularly susceptible to global geopolitical events , such as terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or acts of war or hostility or the outbreak of infectious diseases . We are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel by air. Since most of our customers travel by air to our Las Vegas and Macau properties, any terrorist act or other acts of violence, outbreak of hostilities, escalation of war, or any actual or perceived threat to the security of travel by air, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the outbreak of infectious diseases, such as COVID-19, has severely disrupted, and is expected to continue to disrupt, domestic and international travel. The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in governments, public institutions and other organizations imposing or recommending, and businesses and individuals implementing, restrictions on various activities or other actions to combat its spread, such as restrictions and bans on travel or transportation, stay-at-home directives, limitations on the size of gatherings, closures of work facilities, schools, public buildings and businesses, 24 cancellation of events, including sporting events, concerts, conferences and meetings, and quarantines and lock-downs.  Even when those restrictions are removed, consumer willingness to attend large scale conferences may be impacted for the foreseeable future due to continued concerns over safety and social distancing. See “—The global COVID-19 pandemic has continued to materially impact our business, financial results and liquidity, and such impact could worsen and last for an unknown period of time.” Furthermore, although we have been able to purchase some insurance coverage for certain types of terrorist acts, insurance coverage against physical loss or business interruption resulting from war and some forms of terrorism continues to be unavailable. Co-investing in properties or businesses, including our investment in BetMGM, decreases our ability to manage risk . In addition to acquiring or developing hotels and resorts or acquiring companies that complement our business directly, we have from time to time invested, and expect to continue to invest, in properties or businesses as a co-investor. Co-investors often have shared control over the operation of the property or business. Therefore, the operation of such properties or businesses is subject to inherent risk due to the shared nature of the enterprise and the need to reach agreements on material matters. In addition, investments with other investors may involve risks such as the possibility that the co-investor might become bankrupt or not have the financial resources to meet its obligations, or have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, or be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. Consequently, actions by a co-investor might subject the properties or businesses owned by such entities to additional risk. Further, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our co-investors, or our co-investors could take actions binding on the property without our consent. Additionally, should a co-investor become bankrupt, we could become liable for its share of liabilities. For example, we share control of BetMGM with Entain with all major operating, investing and financial activities requiring the consent of both members. Disagreements between us and Entain could arise in the future, including with respect to the amount and timing of capital contributions. If we and Entain are unable to support the future funding of BetMGM, then BetMGM may not have the resources to execute on the development or implementation of its strategies, including funding efforts to increase its market share, which could result in us not receiving the anticipated benefits from our investment. In addition, if we are awarded a concession to develop an integrated casino resort in Japan, we would do so in a consortium with ORIX and other local investors. As a result, we could be subject to additional risks related to being unable to directly control development activities or the timing of development completion, which may impact our ability to complete the project on our anticipated timeline, or at all, or within the agreed upon specifications. Any of our future construction, development or expansion projects will be subject to significant development and construction risks, which could have a material adverse impact on related project timetables, costs and our ability to complete the projects . Although our business model is primarily asset-light, we intend to continue to evaluate opportunities for future construction, development or expansion projects. Any of our future construction, development or expansion projects, such as our proposed integrated resort in Japan, will be subject to a number of risks, including: • lack of sufficient, or delays in the availability of, financing; • changes to plans and specifications; • engineering problems, including defective plans and specifications; • shortages of, and price increases in, energy, materials and skilled and unskilled labor; • pricing inflation, including wage inflation, in key supply markets; • delays in obtaining or inability to obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals; • changes in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation and enforcement of laws and regulations, applicable to gaming, leisure, residential, real estate development or construction projects; • labor disputes or work stoppages; • availability of qualified contractors and subcontractors; • disputes with and defaults by contractors and subcontractors; • personal injuries to workers and other persons; • environmental, health and safety issues, including site accidents and the spread of viruses; • weather interferences or delays; • fires, typhoons and other natural disasters; • geological, construction, excavation, regulatory and equipment problems; and • other unanticipated circumstances or cost increases. The occurrence of any of these development and construction risks could increase the total costs, delay or prevent the construction, development, expansion or opening or otherwise affect the design and features of any future projects 25 which we might undertake. In addition, the regulatory approvals associated with our development projects may require us to open future casino resorts by a certain specified time and to the extent we are unable to meet those deadlines, and any such deadlines are not extended, we may lose our regulatory approval to open a casino resort in a proposed jurisdiction, or incur payment penalties in connection with any delays which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We also make significant capital expenditures to maintain and upgrade our resorts, which may disrupt operations and displace revenue at the properties, including revenue lost while rooms, restaurants and meeting spaces are under renovation and out of service. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer. In addition, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain similar insurance coverage in the future . Although we have “all risk” property insurance coverage for our operating properties, which covers damage caused by a casualty loss (such as fire, natural disasters, or terrorism or other acts of violence), each policy has certain exclusions. In addition, our property insurance coverage is in an amount that may be significantly less than the expected replacement cost of rebuilding the facilities if there was a total loss. Our level of insurance coverage also may not be adequate to cover all losses in the event of a major casualty. In addition, certain casualty events, such as labor strikes, nuclear events, acts of war, loss of income due to cancellation of room reservations or conventions due to fear of terrorism or other acts of violence, loss of electrical power due to catastrophic events, rolling blackouts or otherwise, deterioration or corrosion, insect or animal damage, and pollution, may not be covered at all under our policies. Therefore, certain acts could expose us to substantial uninsured losses. In addition to the damage caused to our properties by a casualty loss, we may suffer business disruption as a result of these events or be subject to claims by third parties that may be injured or harmed. While we carry business interruption insurance and general liability insurance, this insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses in any such event. Furthermore, the leases we entered into in connection with the MGP BREIT Venture Transaction and the Bellagio sale-leaseback transaction require us to maintain specified insurance coverage. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to obtain the types and limits of insurance coverage required by these leases and, to the extent such required insurance coverage cannot be obtained at commercially reasonable cost or at all, then we would need to obtain amendments to the leases or face a default by the applicable tenant under the lease, which could have material adverse effect on our business. We renew our insurance policies on an annual basis. The cost of coverage may become so high that we may need to further reduce our policy limits, further increase our deductibles or self-insured retentions, or agree to certain exclusions from our coverage. Any failure to protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on the value of our brand names and adversely affect our business . The development of intellectual property is part of our overall business strategy, and we regard our intellectual property to be an important element of our success. While our business as a whole is not substantially dependent on any one trademark or combination of several of our trademarks or other intellectual property, we seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our business operations through the use of trademarks. We file applications for, and obtain trademarks in, the United States and in foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, parties may infringe our trademarks and our rights may be invalidated or unenforceable. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the United States. Monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of resource. We cannot assure you that all of the steps we have taken to protect our trademarks in the United States and foreign countries will be adequate to prevent imitation of our trademarks by others. The unauthorized use or reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brand and its market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business. A significant portion of our labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements. Work stoppages and other labor problems could negatively affect our business and results of operations. As of December 31, 2021, approximately 35,000 of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. A prolonged dispute with the covered employees or any labor unrest, strikes or other business interruptions in connection with labor negotiations or others could have an adverse impact on our operations, and adverse publicity in the marketplace related to union messaging could further harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services. Also, wage and/or benefit increases resulting from new labor agreements may be significant and could also have an adverse impact on our results of operations. To the extent that our non-union employees seek union representation or elect union representation, we would have exposure to risks associated with representation proceedings, labor negotiations and/or economic impacts of newly negotiated labor agreements. Furthermore, we may have, or acquire in the future, multi-employer plans that are classified as “endangered,” 26 “seriously endangered,” or “critical” status. For instance, Borgata’s most significant plan is the Legacy Plan of the UNITE HERE Retirement Fund, which has been listed in “critical status” and is subject to a rehabilitation plan. Plans in these classifications must adopt measures to improve their funded status through a funding improvement or rehabilitation plan, which may require additional contributions from employers (which may take the form of a surcharge on benefit contributions) and/or modifications to retiree benefits. In addition, while Borgata has no current intention to withdraw from these plans, a withdrawal in the future could result in the incurrence of a contingent liability that would be payable in an amount and at such time (or over a period of time) that would vary based on a number of factors at the time of (and after) withdrawal. Any such additional costs may be significant. Our business is particularly sensitive to energy prices and a rise in energy prices could harm our operating results . We are a large consumer of electricity and other energy and, therefore, higher energy prices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Accordingly, increases in energy costs may have a negative impact on our operating results. Additionally, higher electricity and gasoline prices that affect our customers may result in reduced visitation to our resorts and a reduction in our revenues. We may seek to expand through investments in other businesses and properties or through alliances or acquisitions, and we may also seek to divest some of our properties and other assets, any of which may be unsuccessful . We intend to consider strategic and complementary acquisitions and investments in other businesses, properties or other assets. Furthermore, we may pursue any of these opportunities in alliance with third parties, including MGP. Acquisitions and investments in businesses, properties or assets, as well as these alliances, are subject to risks that could affect our business, including risks related to: • spending cash and incurring debt; • assuming contingent liabilities; • unanticipated issues in integrating information, communications and other systems; • unanticipated incompatibility of purchasing, logistics, marketing and administration methods; • retaining key employees; and • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify opportunities or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, even if we are able to identify any such opportunities and complete transactions, we cannot assure you that we will realize the anticipated synergies and benefits of our acquisitions or that they will be accretive to our results of operations. Our estimates and assumptions regarding expected synergies and benefits of our acquisitions could materially change, including as a result of factors beyond our control, and could delay, decrease or eliminate the expected accretive effect of the acquisitions. In addition, even if we are able to successfully integrate new assets and businesses, the integration of such assets and businesses may result in unanticipated costs, competitive responses, loss of customer or other business relationships and the diversion of management attention, and the expansion of our operations in general, whether through acquisition, development or internal growth, could also cause us to incur substantial costs, including legal, professional and consulting fees. In addition, we periodically review our business to identify properties or other assets that we believe either are non-core, no longer complement our business, are in markets which may not benefit us as much as other markets or could be sold at significant premiums. From time to time, we may attempt to sell these identified properties and assets. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to complete dispositions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The failure to maintain the integrity of our computer systems and customer information could result in damage to our reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits and restrictions on our use of data. We collect and process information relating to our employees, guests, and others for various business purposes, including marketing and promotional purposes. The collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations enacted by the various states, the United States and other jurisdictions around the world. Privacy laws and regulations continue to evolve and on occasion may be inconsistent (or conflict) between jurisdictions. Various federal, state and foreign legislative or regulatory bodies may enact or adopt new or additional laws and regulations concerning privacy, data retention, data transfer, and data protection. For example, the European Union has adopted a data protection regulation known as the General Data Protection Regulation, which became fully enforceable in May 2018, that includes operational and compliance requirements with significant penalties for non-compliance. California has enacted a comprehensive privacy law, known as the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, which went into effect on January 1, 2020 and provides some of the strongest privacy requirements in the United States. In addition, new privacy requirements in California, Colorado, and Virginia generally go into effect on January 1, 2023. Compliance with applicable privacy laws and regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our guests. In addition, non-compliance with applicable 27 privacy laws and regulations by us (or in some circumstances non-compliance by third parties engaged by us), including accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure, unapproved dissemination or a breach of security on systems storing our data may result in damage to our reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. We rely on proprietary and commercially available systems, software, and tools to provide security for processing of customer and employee information, such as payment card and other confidential or proprietary information. Our data security measures are reviewed and evaluated regularly; however, they might not protect us against increasingly sophisticated and aggressive threats including, but not limited to, computer malware, viruses, hacking and phishing attacks by third parties. In addition, while we maintain cyber risk insurance to assist in the cost of recovery from a significant cyber event, such coverage may not be sufficient . We also rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, maintain information and manage our businesses. Disruptions in the availability of our computer systems, through cyber-attacks or otherwise, could impact our ability to service our customers and adversely affect our sales and the results of operations. For instance, there has been an increase in criminal cyber security attacks against companies where customer and company information has been compromised and company data has been destroyed. Our information systems and data, including those we maintain with our third-party service providers, have been subject to cyber security breaches in the past and may be subject to cyber security breaches in the future. In addition, our third-party information system service providers face risks relating to cyber security similar to ours, and we do not directly control any of such parties’ information security operations. A significant theft, loss or fraudulent use of customer or company data maintained by us or by a third-party service provider could have an adverse effect on our reputation, cause a material disruption to our operations, and result in remediation expenses, regulatory penalties and litigation by customers and other parties whose information was subject to such attacks, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to risks related to corporate social responsibility and reputation. Many factors influence our reputation and the value of our brands including the perception held by our customers, business partners, other key stakeholders and the communities in which we do business. Our business faces increasing scrutiny related to environmental, social and governance factors and risk of damage to our reputation and the value of our brands if we fail to act responsibly in several areas including diversity and inclusion, community engagement and philanthropy, environmental sustainability, plastic pollution, climate change, responsible gaming, supply chain management, workplace conduct, human rights, and many others, some of which may be unforeseen. Any harm to our reputation could further impact employee engagement and retention and the willingness of customers and our partners to do business with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to risks and costs related to climate change. Extreme weather conditions, potentially exacerbated by climate change, may cause property damage or interrupt business, which could harm our business and results of operations. Certain of our properties are located in areas that may be subject to extreme weather conditions, including, but not limited to, hurricanes, floods, tornados, wildfires, and winter storms in the United States and severe typhoons in Macau. Such extreme weather conditions may interrupt our operations or the operations of critical suppliers, damage our properties, and reduce the number of customers who visit our facilities in such areas. In addition, our operations or the operations of critical suppliers could be adversely impacted by a drought or other cause of water stress or shortage. A severe drought of extensive duration experienced in Las Vegas or in the other regions in which we operate or source critical supplies could adversely affect our business. Although we maintain both property and business interruption insurance coverage for certain extreme weather conditions, such coverage is subject to deductibles and limits on maximum benefits, including limitation on the coverage period for business interruption, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to fully insure such losses or fully collect, if at all, on claims resulting from such extreme weather conditions. Furthermore, such extreme weather conditions may result in reduced availability or increased price volatility of certain critical supplies, may interrupt or impede access to our affected properties, and may cause visits to our affected properties to decrease for an indefinite period. Additionally, many states and municipalities have begun to adopt laws and policies on climate change and emission reduction targets. Changes in federal, state, and local legislation and regulation based on concerns about climate change could result in increased regulatory costs, which may include capital expenditures on our existing properties to ensure compliance with any new or updated regulations, which may potentially adversely affect our operations. There can be no assurance that the potential impacts of climate change and severe weather will not have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations or business. 28 Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters and Changes in Public Policy Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations may adversely affect our business and results of operations . Our ownership and operation of gaming facilities is subject to extensive regulation by the countries, states and provinces in which we operate. These laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. As such, our gaming regulators can require us to disassociate ourselves from suppliers or business partners found unsuitable by the regulators or, alternatively, cease operations in that jurisdiction. In addition, unsuitable activity on our part or on the part of our domestic or foreign unconsolidated affiliates or subsidiaries in any jurisdiction could have a negative effect on our ability to continue operating in other jurisdictions. The regulatory environment in any particular jurisdiction may change in the future and any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Furthermore, our iGaming and online sports betting initiatives may be particularly subject to risks related to potential changes in the regulatory environment as a result of the continued development of regulations in this industry. For example, in 2018, the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) reversed its previously-issued opinion published in 2011, which stated that interstate transmissions of wire communications that do not relate to a “sporting event or contest” fall outside the purview of the Wire Act of 1961 (“Wire Act”). The DOJ’s updated opinion concluded instead that the Wire Act was not uniformly limited to gaming relating to sporting events or contests and that certain of its provisions apply to non-sports-related wagering activity. In June 2019, a federal district court in New Hampshire ruled that the DOJ’s new interpretation of the Wire Act was erroneous and vacated DOJ’s new opinion. The DOJ appealed the decision of the district court to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit. In January 2021, the Court of Appeals essentially affirmed the decision of the district court, and the DOJ did not file a further appeal. For a summary of gaming and other regulations that affect our business, see “Regulation and Licensing” and Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Further, our directors, officers, key employees and investors in our properties must meet approval standards of certain state and foreign regulatory authorities. If state regulatory authorities were to find such a person or investor unsuitable, we would be required to sever our relationship with that person or the investor may be required to dispose of his, her or its interest in the property. State regulatory agencies may conduct investigations into the conduct or associations of our directors, officers, key employees or investors to ensure compliance with applicable standards. Certain public and private issuances of securities, borrowings under credit agreements, guarantees of indebtedness and other transactions also require the approval of certain regulatory authorities. Macau laws and regulations concerning gaming and gaming concessions are complex, and a court or administrative or regulatory body may in the future render an interpretation of these laws and regulations, or issue new or modified regulations, that differ from MGM China’s interpretation, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, MGM Grand Paradise's activities in Macau are subject to administrative review and approval by various government agencies. We cannot assure you that MGM Grand Paradise will be able to obtain all necessary approvals, and any such failure to do so may materially affect its long-term business strategy and operations. Macau laws permit redress to the courts with respect to administrative actions; however, to date such redress is largely untested in relation to gaming issues. In addition to gaming regulations, we are also subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations affecting businesses in general. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, smoking, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. For instance, we are subject to certain federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances, including the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the Energy Policy Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, Renewable Portfolio Standards, the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, and many others. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, an owner or operator of real property may be held liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances or wastes located on its property, regardless of whether or not the present owner or operator knows of, or is responsible for, the presence of such substances or wastes. Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. In addition, effective January 1, 2019, smoking in casinos in Macau, including MGM Macau and MGM Cotai, is only permitted inside specially ventilated smoking rooms, rather than outside smoking areas or VIP areas. The likelihood or outcome of similar legislation in other jurisdictions and referendums in the future cannot be predicted, though any smoking ban would be expected to negatively impact our financial performance. We also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to recordkeeping and reporting obligations as required by various anti-money laundering laws and regulations. For instance, we are subject to regulation under the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, commonly known as the “Bank Secrecy Act”, which, among other things, requires us to report to the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) any currency transactions in excess of $10,000 that occur within a 24-hour gaming day, including identification of the individual(s) involved in the currency 29 transaction. We are also required to report certain suspicious activity where we know, suspect or have reason to suspect transactions, among other things, involve funds from illegal activity or are intended to evade federal regulations or avoid reporting requirements or have no business or lawful purpose. In addition, under the Bank Secrecy Act we are subject to various other rules and regulations involving reporting, recordkeeping and retention. Our compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act is subject to periodic examinations by the IRS. Any such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. Any violations of the anti-money laundering laws, including the Bank Secrecy Act, or regulations by any of our properties could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Furthermore, the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in governments, public institutions and other organizations imposing or recommending restrictions on various activities or other actions to combat its spread. See “—The global COVID-19 pandemic has continued to materially impact our business, financial results and liquidity, and such impact could worsen and last for an unknown period of time.” In addition to the pandemic-related restrictions that resulted in the temporary closures of our properties during 2020, governmental or other COVID-19-related restrictions have been extended or reimposed from time-to-time and new restrictions may be imposed in the future. Any violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or any other similar anti-corruption laws could have a negative impact on us . Historically, a significant portion of our revenue was derived from operations outside the United States, which exposes us to complex foreign and U.S. regulations inherent in doing cross-border business and in each of the countries in which we transact business. We are subject to compliance with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and other similar anti-corruption laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. While our employees and agents are required to comply with these laws, we cannot be sure that our internal policies and procedures will always protect us from violations of these laws, despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics. Violations of these laws by us or our non-controlled ventures may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties against us, and the SEC and U.S. Department of Justice continue to vigorously pursue enforcement of the FCPA. The occurrence or allegation of these types of risks may adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. If the jurisdictions in which we operate increase gaming taxes and fees, as well as other taxes and fees, our results could be adversely affected . State and local authorities raise a significant amount of revenue through taxes and fees, including taxes and fees on gaming activities. From time to time, legislators and government officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. Periods of economic downturn or uncertainty and budget deficits may intensify such efforts to raise revenues through increases in gaming or other taxes, the imposition of new taxes or changes to tax laws that result in increased taxes to us. If the jurisdictions in which we operate were to increase taxes, impose new taxes or change existing tax laws, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The future recognition of our foreign tax credit deferred tax asset is uncertain, and the amount of valuation allowance we may apply against such deferred tax asset may change materially in future periods. We currently have significant deferred tax assets resulting from foreign tax credit carryforwards that are available to reduce taxes attributable to potential taxable foreign-sourced income in future periods, including the recapture of overall domestic losses to the extent of 50 percent of U.S. taxable income per year. We evaluate our foreign tax credit deferred tax asset for recoverability and record a valuation allowance to the extent that we determine it is not more likely than not such asset will be recovered. This evaluation is based on all available evidence, including assumptions concerning future U.S. operating profits and foreign source income. As a result, significant judgment is required in assessing the possible need for a valuation allowance and changes to our assumptions could result in a material change in the valuation allowance with a corresponding impact on the provision for income taxes in the period including such change. We face risks related to pending claims that have been , or future claims that may be , brought against us . Claims have been brought against us and our subsidiaries in various legal proceedings, and additional legal and tax claims arise from time to time. We may not be successful in the defense or prosecution of our current or future legal proceedings, which could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. Please see the further discussion in “Legal Proceedings” and Note 12 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Risks Related to Our Macau Operations We have agreed not to have any interest or involvement in gaming businesses in China, Macau, Hong Kong and Taiwan, other than through MGM China . As a result of the extension of the Macau gaming subconcession, we entered into a First Renewed Deed of Non-Compete Undertakings with MGM China and Ms. Ho, Pansy Catilina Chiu King (“Ms. 30 Ho”), pursuant to which we are restricted from having any interest or involvement in gaming businesses in the People’s Republic of China, Macau, Hong Kong and Taiwan, other than through MGM China. While gaming is currently prohibited in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan, if it is legalized in the future our ability to compete in these locations could be limited until the earliest of (i) the date MGM China’s ordinary shares cease to be listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited or (ii) the last day of MGM Grand Paradise's subconcession for operation of casino games (or any extension thereof); or (iii) the date when our ownership of MGM China shares is less than 20% of the then-issued share capital of MGM China. The Macau government can terminate MGM Grand Paradise’s subconcession under certain circumstances without compensating MGM Grand Paradise , exercise its redemption right with respect to the subconcession, or refuse to grant MGM Grand Paradise an extension of the subconcession in 2022 , or MGM Grand Paradise may be unsuccessful in obtaining a gaming concession when a new public tender is held by the Macau government, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business , financial condition , results of operations and cash flows . The Macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate the subconcession in the event of fundamental non-compliance by MGM Grand Paradise with applicable Macau laws or MGM Grand Paradise’s basic obligations under the subconcession contract. MGM Grand Paradise has the opportunity to remedy any such non-compliance with its fundamental obligations under the subconcession contract within a period to be stipulated by the Macau government. Upon such termination, all of MGM Grand Paradise’s casino area premises and gaming-related equipment would be transferred automatically to the Macau government without compensation to MGM Grand Paradise, and we would cease to generate any revenues from these operations. We cannot assure you that MGM Grand Paradise will perform all of its obligations under the subconcession contract in a way that satisfies the requirements of the Macau government. Furthermore, under the subconcession contract, MGM Grand Paradise is obligated to comply with any laws and regulations that the Macau government might promulgate in the future. We cannot assure you that MGM Grand Paradise will be able to comply with these laws and regulations or that these laws and regulations would not adversely affect our ability to construct or operate our Macau businesses. If any disagreement arises between MGM Grand Paradise and the Macau government regarding the interpretation of, or MGM Grand Paradise’s compliance with, a provision of the subconcession contract, MGM Grand Paradise will be relying on a consultation and negotiation process with the Macau government. During any consultation or negotiation, MGM Grand Paradise will be obligated to comply with the terms of the subconcession contract as interpreted by the Macau government. Currently, there is no precedent concerning how the Macau government will treat the termination of a concession or subconcession upon the occurrence of any of the circumstances mentioned above. The loss of the subconcession would require us to cease conducting gaming operations in Macau, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the subconcession contract expires on June 26, 2022. Pursuant to the current Macau gaming law, upon reaching the maximum duration of 20 years, the term of the concessions may be extended one or more times by order of the Chief Executive, which period may not exceed, in total, 5 years. On January 14, 2022, the Macau Government disclosed the content of a bill to amend Macau gaming law, which followed a 45-day public consultation process regarding draft amendment proposals that were issued in September 2021. Under the bill, the existing subconcessions will be discontinued and a maximum of six concessions will be awarded for a term to be specified in the concession contract that may not exceed 10 years and which may be extended by three years, under certain circumstances. The bill is subject to debate and approval by the Macau Legislative Assembly. The approval of the new gaming law bill will precede the public tender for the awarding of new gaming concessions and to date the Macau Government has provided no indication as to whether the public tender will take place before expiry of the existing gaming concessions and subconcessions, which is on June 26, 2022, but acknowledged that it could consider the extension of the existing concessions and subconcessions beyond their current term if the public tender is held at a later date. Unless MGM Grand Paradise's gaming subconcession is extended, or legislation with regard to reversion of casino premises is amended, the casino area premises and gaming-related equipment subject to reversion will automatically be transferred to the Macau Government upon expiration, and MGM Grand Paradise will cease to generate any revenues from such gaming operations. In addition, certain events relating to the loss, termination, rescission, revocation or modification of MGM Grand Paradise’s gaming subconcession in Macau, where such events have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, business, properties, or results of operations of MGM China, taken as a whole, may result in a special put option triggering event under MGM China’s senior notes and an event of default under MGM China’s revolving credit facilities. Beginning on April 20, 2017, the Macau government may redeem the subconcession contract by providing us at least 1 year prior notice. In the event the Macau government exercises this redemption right, MGM Grand Paradise is entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. The amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of gaming and non-gaming revenue generated by MGM Grand Paradise, excluding the convention and exhibition facilities, during the taxable year prior to the redemption, before deducting interest, depreciation and amortization, multiplied by the number of remaining years before expiration of the subconcession. We cannot assure you that MGM Grand Paradise will be able to obtain an extension of the subconcession contract or be awarded a new gaming concession on terms favorable to MGM Grand Paradise or at all. In 31 addition, there is uncertainty on the terms associated with any extension, which could include additional fees or other financial commitments that may have an adverse impact on the financial position of MGM Grand Paradise. We also cannot assure you that if the subconcession is redeemed, the compensation paid to MGM Grand Paradise will be adequate to compensate for the loss of future revenues. We are subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the United States . Our operations outside of the United States are subject to risks that are inherent in conducting business under non-United States laws, regulations and customs. In particular, the risks associated with the operation of MGM China or any future operations in which we may engage in any other foreign territories, include: • changes in laws and policies that govern operations of companies in Macau or other foreign jurisdictions; • changes in non-United States government programs; • possible failure by our employees or agents to comply with anti-bribery laws such as the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions; • general economic conditions and policies in China, including restrictions on travel and currency movements; • difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing non-United States operations; • different labor regulations; • changes in environmental, health and safety laws; • outbreaks of diseases or epidemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic; • potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws; • political instability and actual or anticipated military and political conflicts; • economic instability and inflation, recession or interest rate fluctuations; and • uncertainties regarding judicial systems and procedures. These risks, individually or in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are also exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. If the United States dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of other countries, our United States dollar reported income from sources where revenue is denominated in the currencies of other such countries will decrease. Conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of MGM China , the holding company for MGM Grand Paradise which owns and operates MGM Macau and MGM Cotai . As a result of the initial public offering of shares of MGM China common stock in 2011, MGM China has stockholders who are not affiliated with us, and we and certain of our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of MGM China may have conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and to the minority stockholders of MGM China. Decisions that could have different implications for us and MGM China, including contractual arrangements that we have entered into or may in the future enter into with MGM China, may give rise to the appearance of a potential conflict of interest or an actual conflict of interest.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

This management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations includes discussion as of and for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to December 31, 2020. Discussion of our financial condition and results of operations as of and for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to December 31, 2019 can be found in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on February 26, 2021. Description of our business and key performance indicators Our primary business is the operation of casino resorts, which offer gaming, hotel, convention, dining, entertainment, retail and other resort amenities. We operate several of the finest casino resorts in the world and we continually reinvest in our resorts to maintain our competitive advantage. Most of our revenue is cash-based, through customers wagering with cash or paying for non-gaming services with cash or credit cards. We rely on the ability of our resorts to generate operating cash flow to fund capital expenditures, provide excess cash flow for future development, repay debt financings, and return capital to our shareholders. We make significant investments in our resorts through newly remodeled hotel rooms, restaurants, entertainment and nightlife offerings, as well as other new features and amenities. Our results of operations are affected by decisions we make related to our capital allocation, our access to capital and our cost of capital. While we continue to be focused on improving our financial position and returning capital to shareholders, we are also dedicated to capitalizing on strategic development or initiatives. Our results of operations do not tend to be seasonal in nature, though a variety of factors may affect the results of any interim period, including the timing of major conventions, Far East baccarat volumes, the amount and timing of marketing and special events for our high-end gaming customers, and the level of play during major holidays, including New Year and Lunar New Year. While our results do not depend on key individual customers, a significant portion of our operating income is generated from high-end gaming customers, which can cause variability in our results. In addition, our success in marketing to customer groups such as convention customers and the financial health of customer segments such as business travelers or high-end gaming customers from a specific country or region can affect our results. Financial Impact of COVID-19 The spread of COVID-19 and developments surrounding the global pandemic have had a significant impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in 2020 and 2021 and may continue to impact our business in 2022 and thereafter. In March 2020, all of our domestic properties were temporarily closed pursuant to state and local government restrictions imposed as a result of COVID-19. Throughout the second and third quarters of 2020, all of our properties that were temporarily closed re-opened to the public, with temporary re-closures and re-openings occurring for certain of our properties or portions thereof into the first quarter of 2021. Upon re-opening, the properties continued to operate without certain amenities and subject to certain occupancy limitations, with restrictions varying by jurisdiction. Beginning in the latter part of the first quarter of 2021 and continuing into the second quarter of 2021, our domestic jurisdictions eased and removed prior operating restrictions, including capacity and occupancy limits, as well as social distancing policies. Although all of our properties have re-opened, in light of the unpredictable nature of the pandemic, including the emergence and spread of COVID-19 variants, the properties may be subject to new operating restrictions and/or temporary, complete, or partial shutdowns in the future. At this time, we cannot predict whether jurisdictions, states or the federal government will adopt similar or more restrictive measures in the future than in the past, including stay-at-home orders or the temporary closure of all or a portion of our properties as a result of the pandemic. In Macau, following a temporary closure of our properties on February 5, 2020, operations resumed on February 20, 2020, subject to certain health safeguards, such as limiting the number of seats available at each table game, slot machine spacing, reduced operating hours at a number of restaurants and bars, temperature checks, and mask protection. Although the issuance of tourist visas (including the individual visit scheme) for residents of Zhuhai, Guangdong Province and all other provinces in mainland China to travel to Macau resumed on August 12, 2020, August 26, 2020 and September 23, 2020, respectively, several travel and entry restrictions in Macau, Hong Kong and mainland China remain in place (including the temporary suspension of ferry services between Hong Kong and Macau, the negative nucleic acid test result certificate, and mandatory quarantine requirements for returning residents, for visitors from Hong Kong, Taiwan, and 37 mainland China, and bans on entry on other visitors), which significantly impacted visitation to our Macau properties. In the third and fourth quarters of 2021, local COVID-19 cases were identified in Macau. Upon such occurrences, a state of immediate prevention was declared and mass mandatory nucleic acid testing was imposed in Macau, the validity period of negative test results for re-entry into mainland China was shortened and quarantine requirements were imposed, certain events were cancelled or suspended, and in some instances, certain entertainment and leisure facilities were closed throughout Macau. Although gaming and hotel operations have remained open during these states of immediate prevention, such measures have had a negative effect on our operations and it is uncertain whether further closures, including the closure of our properties, or travel restrictions to Macau will be implemented if additional local COVID-19 cases are identified. The Las Vegas Strip segment results of operations are heavily impacted by visitor volume and trends. During the year ended December 31, 2021, Las Vegas visitor volume increased 69% compared to the prior year period according to information published by the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority. The Las Vegas market has had the addition of new sporting events and venues, the expansion of convention centers, as well as music and entertainment events, which have positively impacted visitation, along with the easing of COVID-19 related restrictions, as discussed above. The MGM China segment results of operations also are heavily impacted by visitor volume and trends. During the year ended December 31, 2021, Macau visitor arrivals increased 31% compared to the prior year period according to statistics published by the Statistics and Census Service of the Macau Government, as the prior year period was more negatively affected by travel and entry restrictions in Macau than in the current year period. For a discussion of the risks to our business resulting from COVID-19, please see “Item 1A. Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business, Industry, and Market Conditions.” Other Developments As of December 31, 2021, we lease the real estate assets of The Mirage, Luxor, New York-New York, Park MGM, Excalibur, The Park, Gold Strike Tunica, MGM Grand Detroit, Beau Rivage, Borgata, Empire City, MGM National Harbor, MGM Northfield Park, and MGM Springfield pursuant to a master lease agreement with MGP. See Note 1 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information regarding MGP and the Operating Partnership, which we consolidate in our financial statements. All intercompany transactions, including transactions under the master lease with MGP, have been eliminated in consolidation. As further discussed below, we lease the real estate assets of Bellagio pursuant to a lease agreement with Bellagio BREIT Venture, the real estate assets of Mandalay Bay and MGM Grand Las Vegas pursuant to a lease agreement with MGP BREIT Venture, and the real estate assets of Aria (including Vdara) pursuant to a lease agreement with a fund managed by Blackstone, as further discussed below. In April 2019, we acquired the membership interests of Northfield Park Associates, LLC (“Northfield”), an Ohio limited liability company that owned the real estate assets and operations of the Hard Rock Rocksino Northfield Park,  from MGP and MGP retained the real estate assets. We then rebranded the property to MGM Northfield Park, and added it to the master lease between us and MGP. See Note 18 in the accompanying financial statements for information regarding this acquisition. Also, in January 2019, we acquired the real property and operations associated with Empire City in Yonkers, New York for consideration of approximately $865 million. Subsequently, MGP acquired the developed real property associated with Empire City from us and Empire City was added to the master lease between us and MGP. In addition, pursuant to the master lease amendment, we agreed to provide MGP a right of first offer with respect to certain undeveloped land adjacent to the property to the extent that we develop additional gaming facilities and choose to sell or transfer such property in the future. See Note 4 and Note 18 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information regarding this acquisition. In March 2019, we entered into an amendment to the master lease between us and MGP with respect to improvements made by us related to the rebranding of the Park MGM and NoMad Las Vegas. See Note 18 in the accompanying financial statements for information regarding this transaction with MGP, which is eliminated in consolidation. In November 2019, we completed the Bellagio transaction, pursuant to which Bellagio BREIT Venture was formed, which acquired the Bellagio real estate assets from us and entered into a lease agreement to lease the real estate assets back to us. The Bellagio lease has an initial term of 30 years with two 10-year renewal periods, exercisable at our option. The initial term of the lease provides for an initial annual rent of $245 million with a fixed 2% escalator for the first 10 years 38 and, thereafter, an escalator equal to the greater of 2% and the CPI increase during the prior year, subject to a cap of 3% during the 11th through 20th years and 4% thereafter. In addition, the lease obligates us to spend a specified percentage of net revenues at the property on capital expenditures and that we comply with certain financial covenants, which, if not met, would require us to maintain cash security or provide one or more letters of credit in favor of the landlord in an amount equal to rent for the succeeding 2-year period. In exchange for the contribution of the real estate assets, we received total consideration of $4.25 billion, which consisted of a 5% equity interest in the venture and cash of approximately $4.2 billion. We also provide a shortfall guarantee of the principal amount of indebtedness of Bellagio BREIT Venture (and any interest accrued and unpaid thereon). As a result of the sale, we recorded a gain of approximately $2.7 billion. See Note 1, Note 11, and Note 12 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information regarding this transaction, lease agreement, and shortfall guarantee, respectively. In December 2019, we sold Circus Circus Las Vegas and adjacent land for $825 million, which consisted of $663 million paid in cash and a secured note due 2024 with a face value of $163 million and fair value of $134 million. In connection with our review of the carrying value of assets to be sold due to the offer for sale received during the third quarter of 2019, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $219 million. Upon completion of the sale in the fourth quarter, we recorded a loss of $2 million. See Note 1 and Note 16 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information regarding this transaction. In February 2020, we completed the MGP BREIT Venture Transaction pursuant to which the real estate assets of MGM Grand Las Vegas and Mandalay Bay (including Mandalay Place) were contributed to MGP BREIT Venture, owned 50.1% by the Operating Partnership and 49.9% by a subsidiary of BREIT. In exchange for the contribution of the real estate assets, MGM and MGP received total consideration of $4.6 billion, which was comprised of $2.5 billion of cash, $1.3 billion of the Operating Partnership’s secured indebtedness assumed by MGP BREIT Venture, and the Operating Partnership’s 50.1% equity interest in MGP BREIT Venture. In addition, the Operating Partnership issued approximately 3 million Operating Partnership units to us representing 5% of the equity value of MGP BREIT Venture. We also provide a shortfall guarantee of the principal amount of indebtedness of MGP BREIT Venture (and any interest accrued and unpaid thereon). On the closing date, BREIT also purchased approximately 5 million MGP Class A shares for $150 million. See Note 1, Note 11, and Note 12 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information regarding this transaction, lease agreement, and shortfall guarantee, respectively. In connection with the MGP BREIT Venture Transaction, MGP BREIT Venture entered into a lease with us for the real estate assets of Mandalay Bay and MGM Grand Las Vegas. The lease has an initial term of 30 years with two 10-year renewal periods, exercisable at our option. The initial term of the lease provides for an initial annual rent of $292 million with a fixed 2% escalator for the first 15 years and, thereafter, an escalator equal to the greater of 2% and the CPI increase during the prior year, subject to a cap of 3%. In addition, the lease obligates us to spend a specified percentage of net revenues at the properties on capital expenditures and that we comply with certain financial covenants, which, if not met, would require us to maintain cash security or provide one or more letters of credit in favor of the landlord in an amount equal to the rent for the succeeding 1-year period. See Note 11 in the accompanying financial statements for information regarding this lease agreement. In connection with the MGP BREIT Venture Transaction, the master lease with MGP was modified to remove the Mandalay Bay property and the annual cash rent under the MGP master lease was reduced by $133 million, as further discussed in Note 18. Also, in January 2020, we, the Operating Partnership, and MGP entered into an agreement for the Operating Partnership to waive its right following the closing of the MGP BREIT Venture Transaction to issue MGP Class A shares, in lieu of cash, to us in connection with us exercising our right to require the Operating Partnership to redeem the Operating Partnership units we hold, at a price per unit equal to a 3% discount to the ten day average closing price prior to the date of the notice of redemption . The waiver was effective upon closing of the transaction on February 14, 2020 and was scheduled to terminate on the earlier of February 14, 2022 or upon our receipt of cash proceeds of $1.4 billion as consideration for the redemption of our Operating Partnership units. On May 18, 2020 the Operating Partnership redeemed approximately 30 million Operating Partnership units that we held for $700 million, or $23.10 per unit, and on December 2, 2020, the Operating Partnership redeemed approximately 24 million Operating Partnership units that we held for the remaining $700 million, or $29.78 per unit. As a result, the waiver terminated in accordance with its terms. In March 2021, we delivered a notice of redemption to MGP covering approximately 37 million Operating Partnership units that we held which was satisfied with aggregate cash proceeds of approximately $1.2 billion, using cash on hand together with the proceeds from MGP's issuance of Class A shares. See Note 13 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information regarding this transaction, which eliminates in consolidation. 39 In August 2021, we entered into an agreement with VICI and MGP whereby VICI will acquire MGP. Pursuant to the agreement, MGP Class A shareholders will receive 1.366 shares of newly issued VICI stock in exchange for each MGP Class A share outstanding and we will receive 1.366 units of the new VICI OP in exchange for each Operating Partnership unit we hold. The fixed exchange ratio represents an agreed upon price of $43 per share of MGP Class A share to the five-day volume weighted average price of VICI stock as of the close of business on July 30, 2021. In connection with the exchange, VICI OP will redeem the majority of our VICI OP units for cash consideration of $4.4 billion, with us retaining an approximate $370 million ownership interest in the VICI OP (based upon the close price of VICI stock as of August 3, 2021). MGP’s Class B share that we hold will be cancelled. As part of the transaction, we will enter into an amended and restated master lease with VICI. The new master lease will have an initial term of 25 years, with three 10-year renewals, and initial annual rent of $860 million, escalating annually at a rate of 2% per annum for the first 10 years and thereafter equal to the greater of 2% and the CPI increase during the prior year subject to a cap of 3%. The transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2022, subject to customary closing conditions, regulatory approvals, and approval by VICI stockholders (which was obtained on October 29, 2021). See “Item 1A. Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Announced Transactions — The VICI Transaction, The Cosmopolitan transaction, and The Mirage transaction each remain subject to the satisfaction of certain closing conditions, including the receipt of certain regulatory approvals, and any anticipated benefits from such transactions may take longer to realize than expected or may not be realized at all.” In September 2021, we entered into an agreement to acquire the operations of The Cosmopolitan for cash consideration of $1.625 billion, subject to customary working capital adjustments. Additionally, we will enter into a lease agreement for the real estate assets of The Cosmopolitan. The Cosmopolitan lease will have an initial term of 30 years with three subsequent 10-year renewal periods, exercisable at our option. The initial term of the lease provides for an initial annual cash rent of $200 million with a fixed 2% escalator for the first 15 years, and thereafter, an escalator equal to the greater of 2% and the CPI increase during the prior year, subject to a cap of 3%. Additionally, the lease will require us to spend a specified percentage of net revenues over a rolling 5-year period at the property on capital expenditures and for us to comply with certain financial covenants, which, if not met, would require us to maintain cash security or one or more letters of credit in favor of the landlord in an amount equal to rent for the succeeding 1-year period. The transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2022, subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. In September 2021, we completed the acquisition of the 50% ownership interest in CityCenter held by Infinity World for cash consideration of $2.125 billion. Upon the closing of the transaction, we own 100% of CityCenter and accordingly no longer account for our interest under the equity method of accounting, and we now consolidate CityCenter in our financial statements. See Note 4 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information regarding this transaction. In September 2021, we sold the real estate assets of Aria (including Vdara) for cash consideration of $3.89 billion and entered into a lease pursuant to which we lease back the real property. The lease has an initial term of 30 years with three 10-year renewal periods, exercisable at our option. The initial term of the lease provides for an initial annual rent of $215 million with a fixed 2% escalator  for the first 15 years and, thereafter, an escalator equal to the greater of 2% and the CPI increase during the prior year, subject to a cap of 3%. In addition, the lease obligates us to spend a specified percentage of net revenues at the properties on capital expenditures and that we comply with certain financial covenants, which, if not met, would require us to maintain cash security or provide a letter of credit in favor of the landlord in an amount equal to the rent for the succeeding 1-year period. See Note 11 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information regarding this lease. In October 2021, MGP acquired the real estate assets of MGM Springfield from us and MGM Springfield was added to the MGP master lease between us and MGP through which we lease back the real property. Transactions with MGP, including transactions under the MGP master lease, have been eliminated in our consolidation of MGP. Refer to Note 18 for further discussion of the master lease with MGP. In December 2021, we entered into an agreement to sell the operations of The Mirage to an affiliate of Hard Rock for cash consideration of $1.075 billion, subject to certain purchase price adjustments. Pursuant to the agreement, Hard Rock is obligated to use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the requisite antitrust and gaming regulatory approvals. The agreement may be terminated by either party if the closing has not occurred on or before December 13, 2022, which date may be extended by either party to March 13, 2023 under certain circumstances. The agreement contemplates a reverse termination fee of $322.5 million that is payable by Hard Rock to us in the event that the parties are unable to obtain antitrust or gaming regulatory approval. Upon closing, the master lease between us and VICI (or MGP in the event that the VICI Transaction is terminated) will be amended and restated to reflect a $90 million reduction in annual cash rent. The transaction is expected to close during the second half of 2022, subject to certain closing conditions, including, but not limited to, the consummation or termination of the VICI Transaction and receipt of regulatory approvals. 40 Key Performance Indicators Key performance indicators related to gaming and hotel revenue are: • Gaming revenue indicators: table games drop and slots handle (volume indicators); “win” or “hold” percentage, which is not fully controllable by us. Our normal table games hold percentage at our Las Vegas Strip Resorts is in the range of 25.0% to 35.0% of table games drop for Baccarat and 19.0% to 23.0% for non-Baccarat; however, reduced gaming volumes as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic could cause volatility in our hold percentages; and • Hotel revenue indicators: hotel occupancy (a volume indicator); average daily rate (“ADR,” a price indicator); and revenue per available room (“REVPAR,” a summary measure of hotel results, combining ADR and occupancy rate). Our calculation of ADR, which is the average price of occupied rooms per day, includes the impact of complimentary rooms. Complimentary room rates are determined based on standalone selling price. Because the mix of rooms provided on a complimentary basis, particularly to casino customers, includes a disproportionate suite component, the composite ADR including complimentary rooms is slightly higher than the ADR for cash rooms, reflecting the higher retail value of suites. Rooms that were out of service during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 as a result of closures due to the COVID-19 pandemic were excluded from the available room count when calculating hotel occupancy and REVPAR. Additional key performance indicators at MGM China are: • Gaming revenue indicators: MGM China utilizes “turnover,” which is the sum of nonnegotiable chip wagers won by MGM China calculated as nonnegotiable chips purchased plus nonnegotiable chips exchanged less nonnegotiable chips returned. Turnover provides a basis for measuring VIP casino win percentage. Win for VIP gaming operations at MGM China is typically in the range of 2.6% to 3.3% of turnover; however, reduced gaming volumes as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic could cause volatility in MGM China’s hold percentages. Results of Operations The following discussion is based on our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019. Summary Operating Results The following table summarizes our operating results: 41 Our domestic properties were temporarily closed due to COVID-19 on the dates shown below: Consolidated net revenues were $9.7 billion in 2021 compared to $5.2 billion in 2020, an  increase of 88%. The current year benefited from the inclusion of the net revenues of Aria subsequent to consolidation in September 2021 and the removal of mandated operational and capacity restrictions at our properties, as well as an increase in travel, while the prior year was negatively affected by temporary property closures at certain of our Las Vegas Strip Resorts and Regional Operations for a portion of the year due to the pandemic. At MGM China, the prior year was negatively affected by both property closures in the first quarter and was also more significantly impacted by travel and entry restrictions in Macau than in the current year. These factors resulted in a 111% increase in net revenues at our Las Vegas Strip Resorts, a 72% increase in net revenues at our Regional Operations, and an 84% increase in net revenues at MGM China. Consolidated operating income was $2.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to a loss of $642 million in 2020, due primarily to the temporary property closures in the prior year as well as the inclusion of the operating income of Aria subsequent to consolidation in September 2021, as discussed above. The current year included a gain on consolidation of CityCenter, net of $1.6 billion and the prior year included a $1.5 billion gain on REIT transactions, net and $26 million in restructuring costs. In addition, corporate expense decreased $37 million compared to the prior year. Corporate expense in the current year included $34 million in transaction costs, while the prior year included $44 million of CEO transition expense and $49 million of October 1 litigation settlement expense. Included in the CEO transition expense is $20 million of stock compensation expense, of which approximately $13 million related to the modification and accelerated vesting of outstanding stock compensation awards. Property transactions, net in the current year included a gain of $29 million related to a reduction in the estimate of contingent consideration related to the Empire City acquisition, a gain of $76 million relating to the sale of art, and an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $22 million related to an investment in an unconsolidated affiliate. Property transactions, net in the prior year included a $64 million other-than-temporary non-cash impairment charge on an equity method investment and $17 million related to a loss on production show costs. Depreciation expense decreased $60 million compared to the prior year primarily as a result of certain assets 42 becoming fully depreciated in the current year at MGM China, primarily at MGM Cotai. General and administrative expense increased $385 million compared to the prior year due primarily to the prior year reflecting the temporary property closures, the inclusion of rent expense for the Aria lease, which commenced in September 2021, and also due to a full period of rent expense for the MGM Grand Las Vegas and Mandalay Bay lease in the current year, partially offset by realized benefits from our cost savings initiatives at our domestic properties. Net Revenues by Segment The following table presents a detail by segment of net revenues: Las Vegas Strip Resorts Las Vegas Strip Resorts casino revenue was $1.5 billion in 2021, compared to $728 million in 2020, an increase of 113%, due primarily to the temporary property closures for a portion of 2020 and removal of mandated operational and capacity restrictions, as well as an increase in travel in the current year, and the inclusion of the operating results of Aria subsequent to consolidation in September 2021. 43 The following table shows key gaming statistics for our Las Vegas Strip Resorts: Las Vegas Strip Resorts rooms revenue was $1.4 billion in 2021, compared to $663 million in 2020, an increase of 112%, due primarily to the temporary property closures for a portion of the prior year and removal of mandated operational and capacity restrictions, as well as an increase in travel in the current year, and the inclusion of the operating results of Aria subsequent to consolidation in September 2021. The following table shows key hotel statistics for our Las Vegas Strip Resorts: (1) Rooms that were out of service, including full and midweek closures, during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic were excluded from the available room count when calculating hotel occupancy and REVPAR. Las Vegas Strip Resorts food and beverage revenue was $1.0 billion in 2021, compared to $472 million in 2020, an increase of 115%, due primarily to the temporary closures at certain properties and operational and capacity restrictions in the prior year and removal of those restrictions in the current year as well as an increase in travel in the current year, and the inclusion of the operating results of Aria subsequent to consolidation in September 2021. However, not all outlets were fully re-opened during the current year and the properties did not benefit from the removal of mandated operational and capacity restrictions as well as an increase in travel primarily until the latter part of the second quarter of the current year. Las Vegas Strip Resorts entertainment, retail and other revenue was $770 million in 2021, compared to $383 million in 2020, an increase of 101%, due primarily to the temporary property closures for a portion of the prior year and removal of mandated operational and capacity restrictions as well as an increase in travel in the current year, and the inclusion of the operating results of Aria subsequent to consolidation in September 2021. However, venue re-openings and events did not primarily occur until beginning in the latter part of the second quarter of the current year. Regional Operations Regional Operations casino revenue was $2.7 billion in 2021, compared to $1.6 billion in 2020, an increase of 73%, due primarily to the temporary property closures in the prior year and removal of mandated operational and capacity restrictions and, to a lesser extent, increase in travel in the current year. 44 The following table shows key gaming statistics for our Regional Operations: Regional Operations rooms revenue was $221 million in 2021, compared to $131 million in 2020, an increase of 69%, due primarily to the temporary property closures in the prior year and removal of mandated operational and capacity restrictions and, to a lesser extent, increase in travel in the current year. Regional Operations food and beverage revenue was $308 million in 2021, compared to $184 million in 2020, an increase of 67%, due primarily to the temporary property closures in the prior year and removal of mandated operational and capacity restrictions beginning primarily in the second quarter of the current year. Regional Operations entertainment, retail and other revenue was $142 million in 2021, compared to $83 million in 2020, an increase of 72%, due primarily to temporary property closures in the prior year and removal of mandated operational and capacity restrictions beginning primarily in the second quarter of the current year. MGM China The following table shows key gaming statistics for MGM China: MGM China net revenues were $1.2 billion in 2021, compared to $657 million in 2020, an increase of 84%. The prior year was negatively affected by both property closures in February 2020 and was more significantly impacted by travel and entry restrictions in Macau than in the current year. Corporate and other Corporate and other revenue includes revenues from other corporate operations, management services and reimbursed costs revenue primarily related to our CityCenter management agreement (which was terminated upon the acquisition of CityCenter in September 2021). Reimbursed costs revenue represents reimbursement of costs, primarily payroll-related, incurred by us in connection with the provision of management services and was $226 million, $245 million and $437 million for 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Reimbursed costs revenue for the year ended December 31, 2021 decreased compared to the prior year due primarily to the termination of the CityCenter management agreement as discussed above. See below for additional discussion of our share of operating results from unconsolidated affiliates. 45 Adjusted Property EBITDAR and Adjusted EBITDAR The following table presents Adjusted Property EBITDAR and Adjusted EBITDAR. Adjusted Property EBITDAR is our reportable segment generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) measure, which we utilize as the primary profit measure for our reportable segments. See Note 17 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements and “Reportable Segment GAAP measure” below for additional information. Las Vegas Strip Resorts Las Vegas Strip Resorts Adjusted Property EBITDAR was $1.7 billion in 2021 compared to $232 million in 2020. Las Vegas Strip Resorts Adjusted Property EBITDAR margin increased to 36.7% in 2021 compared to 10.3% in 2020. The current year benefited from the increase in revenues, as discussed above, as well as realized benefits from our cost savings initiatives. Regional Operations Regional Operations Adjusted Property EBITDAR was $1.2 billion in 2021 compared to $344 million in 2020. Regional Operations Adjusted Property EBITDAR margin increased to 35.9% in 2021 compared to 17.5% in 2020 as the current year benefited from the increase in revenues, as discussed above, as well as realized benefits from our cost saving initiatives. MGM China MGM China’s Adjusted Property EBITDAR was $25 million in 2021 compared to a loss of $194 million in 2020. The increase was due primarily to the temporary property closures in the prior year as well as the prior year being more significantly impacted by travel and entry restrictions in Macau and other operational restrictions related to the pandemic than in the current year. License fee expense was $21 million for 2021 and $11 million in the prior year. Operating Results – Details of Certain Charges Property transactions, net consisted of the following: See Note 16 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for discussion of property transactions, net. 46 Operating Results – Income from Unconsolidated Affiliates The following table summarizes information related to our share of operating income from unconsolidated affiliates: In September 2021, we completed the acquisition of the 50% ownership interest in CityCenter held by Infinity World and now own 100% of the equity interest in CityCenter. Accordingly, we no longer account for our interest in CityCenter under the equity method of accounting, and we now consolidate CityCenter in our financial statements. In June 2021, CityCenter closed the sale of its Harmon land for $80 million on which it recorded a $30 million gain. We recorded a $50 million gain, which included $15 million of our 50% share of the gain recorded by CityCenter and $35 million representing the reversal of certain basis differences in 2021. Our share of CityCenter’s operating income, including certain basis difference adjustments, was $128 million for the current year period through September 26, 2021 compared to our share of CityCenter's operating loss of $30 million in 2020, due primarily to the temporary property closures in the prior year and removal of mandated operational and capacity restrictions, an increase in travel beginning primarily in the second quarter of the current year, and the gain related to the sale of its Harmon land in the current year, as discussed above, partially offset by a shorter comparative period in the current year given that, as of September 2021, we no longer account for our interest in CityCenter under the equity method of accounting, as discussed above. Non-operating Results Interest expense. The following table summarizes information related to interest expense, net: Gross interest expense was $800 million in 2021 compared to $679 million in 2020. The increase in gross interest expense was due primarily to an increase in average debt outstanding related to senior notes due to the issuances by us,  the Operating Partnership and MGM China in 2020 and 2021, partially offset by a decrease in the weighted average interest rate of the senior notes. See Note 9 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional discussion on long-term debt and see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” for additional discussion on issuances and repayments of long-term debt and other sources and uses of cash. Other, net. Other income, net was $66 million in 2021 compared to other expense, net of $89 million in 2020. The current year included a $28 million net gain on change in fair value of an equity instrument, a $39 million gain on the Operating Partnership’s unhedged interest rate swaps, and $22 million of interest income, partially offset by $13 million of foreign currency remeasurement losses primarily related to MGM China’s U.S. dollar-denominated senior notes. The prior year included a $109 million loss incurred on the early retirement of debt related to our senior notes and the termination of our revolving facility, as well as an $18 million loss incurred on the early retirement of debt related to the Operating Partnership’s repayment of its term loan A facility and its term loan B facility, partially offset by $9 million of foreign currency remeasurement gains primarily related to MGM China’s U.S. dollar-denominated senior notes, and $32 million in interest income. 47 Income taxes. The following table summarizes information related to our income taxes: Our effective rate for 2021 was favorably impacted by the permanent exclusion of a portion of the gain on consolidation of CityCenter partially offset by the unfavorable impact of losses in Macau that we could not benefit. The effective rate for 2020 was unfavorably impacted by losses in Macau that we could not benefit and adjustments to valuation allowances for Macau deferred tax assets and foreign tax credits, partially offset by tax benefit resulting from carrying back net operating losses to tax years with a higher tax rate than is currently in effect. Cash taxes paid increased in 2021 compared to 2020 primarily due to an increase in federal income taxes paid resulting from increased U.S. taxable income following the recovery of the business from the impacts of COVID-19. Reportable Segment GAAP measure “Adjusted Property EBITDAR” is our reportable segment GAAP measure, which we utilize as the primary profit measure for our reportable segments and underlying operating segments. Adjusted Property EBITDAR is a measure defined as earnings before interest and other non-operating income (expense), taxes, depreciation and amortization, preopening and start-up expenses, gain on REIT transactions, net, restructuring costs (which represents costs related to severance, accelerated stock compensation expense, and consulting fees directly related to the operating model component of the MGM 2020 Plan), rent expense associated with triple-net operating and ground leases, income from unconsolidated affiliates related to investments in real estate ventures, property transactions, net, and also excludes gain on consolidation  of CityCenter, net, gain related to CityCenter's sale of Harmon land recorded within income from unconsolidated affiliates and corporate expense (which includes CEO transition expense and October 1 litigation settlement) and stock compensation expense, which are not allocated to each operating segment, and rent expense related to the master lease with MGP that eliminates in consolidation. We manage capital allocation, tax planning, stock compensation, and financing decisions at the corporate level. “Adjusted Property EBITDAR margin” is Adjusted Property EBITDAR divided by related segment net revenues. Non-GAAP Measure “Adjusted EBITDAR” is earnings before interest and other non-operating income (expense), taxes, depreciation and amortization, preopening and start-up expenses, property transactions, net, gain on REIT transactions, net, gain on consolidation of CityCenter, net, CEO transition expense, October 1 litigation settlement, restructuring costs (which represents costs related to severance, accelerated stock compensation expense, and consulting fees directly related to the operating model component of the MGM 2020 Plan), rent expense associated with triple-net operating and ground leases, gain related to CityCenter's sale of Harmon land recorded within income from unconsolidated affiliates, and income from unconsolidated affiliates related to investments in real estate ventures. Adjusted EBITDAR information is a valuation metric, should not be used as an operating metric, and is presented solely as a supplemental disclosure to reported GAAP measures because we believe this measure is widely used by analysts, lenders, financial institutions, and investors as a principal basis for the valuation of gaming companies. We believe that while items excluded from Adjusted EBITDAR may be recurring in nature and should not be disregarded in evaluation of our earnings performance, it is useful to exclude such items when analyzing current results and trends. Also, we believe excluded items may not relate specifically to current trends or be indicative of future results. For example, preopening and start-up expenses will be significantly different in periods when we are developing and constructing a major expansion project and will depend on where the current period lies within the development cycle, as well as the size and scope of the project(s). Property transactions, net includes normal recurring disposals, gains and losses on sales of assets related to specific assets within our resorts, but also includes gains or losses on sales of an entire operating resort or a group of resorts and impairment charges on entire asset groups or investments in unconsolidated affiliates, which may not be comparable period over period. However, as discussed herein, Adjusted EBITDAR should not be viewed as a measure of overall operating performance, considered in isolation, or as an alternative to net income, because this measure is not 48 presented on a GAAP basis and exclude certain expenses, including the rent expense associated with our triple-net operating and ground leases, and are provided for the limited purposes discussed herein. Adjusted EBITDAR should not be construed as an alternative to operating income or net income, as an indicator of our performance; or as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities, as a measure of liquidity; or as any other measure determined in accordance with GAAP. We have significant uses of cash flows, including capital expenditures, interest payments, taxes, real estate triple-net lease and ground lease payments, and debt principal repayments, which are not reflected in Adjusted EBITDAR. Also, other companies in the gaming and hospitality industries that report Adjusted EBITDAR information may calculate Adjusted EBITDAR in a different manner and such differences may be material. The following table presents a reconciliation of net income attributable to MGM Resorts International to Adjusted EBITDAR: Guarantor Financial Information As of December 31, 2021, all of our principal debt arrangements are guaranteed by each of our wholly owned material domestic subsidiaries that guarantee our senior credit facility. Our principal debt arrangements are not guaranteed by MGP, the Operating Partnership, MGM Grand Detroit, MGM National Harbor, Blue Tarp reDevelopment, LLC (the entity that operates MGM Springfield), and each of their respective subsidiaries. Our foreign subsidiaries, including MGM China and its subsidiaries, are also not guarantors of our principal debt arrangements. In the event that any subsidiary is no longer a guarantor of our credit facility or any of our future capital markets indebtedness, that subsidiary will be released and relieved of its obligations to guarantee our existing senior notes. The indentures governing the senior notes further provide that in the event of a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of, or capital stock in a subsidiary guarantor then such subsidiary guarantor will be released and relieved of any obligations under its subsidiary guarantee. 49 The guarantees provided by the subsidiary guarantors rank senior in right of payment to any future subordinated debt of ours or such subsidiary guarantors, junior to any secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such debt and effectively subordinated to any indebtedness and other obligations of our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the senior notes. In addition, the obligations of each subsidiary guarantor under its guarantee is limited so as not to constitute a fraudulent conveyance under applicable law, which may eliminate the subsidiary guarantor’s obligations or reduce such obligations to an amount that effectively makes the subsidiary guarantee lack value. The summarized financial information of us and our guarantor subsidiaries, on a combined basis, is presented below. Certain of our guarantor subsidiaries collectively own Operating Partnership units and each subsidiary accounts for its respective investment under the equity method within the summarized financial information presented below. These subsidiaries have also accounted for the MGP master lease as an operating lease, recording operating lease liabilities and operating ROU assets with the related rent expense of guarantor subsidiaries reflected within the summarized financial information. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flows – Summary Our cash flows consisted of the following: 50 Cash Flows Operating activities. Trends in our operating cash flows tend to follow trends in operating income, excluding non-cash charges, but can be affected by changes in working capital, the timing of significant interest payments, tax payments or refunds, and distributions from unconsolidated affiliates . Cash provided by operating activities was $1.4 billion in 2021 compared to cash used in operating activities of $1.5 billion in 2020. The change from the prior year was due primarily to the increase in Adjusted Property EBITDAR discussed within the results of operations section above, and due to the prior year being negatively affected by a change in working capital related to gaming and non-gaming deposits, gaming taxes and other gaming liabilities, and payroll related liabilities as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by an increase in triple-net lease rent payments and cash paid for interest and taxes. Investing activities. Our investing cash flows can fluctuate significantly from year to year depending on our decisions with respect to strategic capital investments in new or existing resorts, business acquisitions or dispositions, and the timing of maintenance capital expenditures to maintain the quality of our resorts. Capital expenditures related to regular investments in our existing resorts can also vary depending on timing of larger remodel projects related to our public spaces and hotel rooms . Cash provided by investing activities was $1.5 billion in 2021 compared to $2.2 billion in 2020 . In 2021, we received $3.9 billion in net cash proceeds from the sale of the real estate of Aria (including Vdara), received $107 million in net proceeds from the sale of property and equipment, primarily related to the sale of art, which were partially offset by our payments of $1.8 billion to acquire CityCenter, net of cash acquired, $491 million in capital expenditures, as further discussed below, and contributions of $225 million to BetMGM. In comparison, in the prior year we received $2.5 billion in net cash proceeds from the Mandalay Bay and MGM Grand Las Vegas real estate transaction, which were partially offset by $271 million in capital expenditures and $80 million in contributions to BetMGM. In the prior year period, distributions from unconsolidated affiliates included $51 million related to our share of a distribution paid by CityCenter. Capital Expenditures In 2021, we made capital expenditures of $491 million, of which $68 million related to MGM China. Capital expenditures at MGM China included $49 million primarily related to construction of the Emerald Tower project at MGM Cotai and $19 million related to projects at MGM Macau. Capital expenditures at our Las Vegas Strip Resorts, Regional Operations and corporate entities of $423 million primarily relate to expenditures in information technology and room remodels. In 2020, we made capital expenditures of $271 million, of which $108 million related to MGM China. Capital expenditures at MGM China included $95 million primarily related to construction close-out and projects at MGM Cotai and $13 million related to projects at MGM Macau. Capital expenditures at our Las Vegas Strip Resorts, Regional Operations and corporate entities of $162 million included expenditures relating to information technology, health and safety initiatives, and various room, restaurant, and entertainment venue remodels. Financing activities. Cash used in financing activities was $2.8 billion in 2021 compared to cash provided by financing activities of $2.1 billion in 2020. In 2021 , we had net repayments of debt of $1.3 billion, as further discussed below, distributed $324 million to noncontrolling interest owners, and we repurchased $1.8 billion of our common stock, partially offset by net proceeds received of $793 million from the issuance of MGP's Class A shares. In comparison, in the prior year period, we received net proceeds from the incurrence of the bridge loan facility in connection with the MGP BREIT Venture Transaction of $1.3 billion, net proceeds of $525 million from MGP’s Class A share issuances, net debt borrowings of $1.1 billion, as further discussed below, repurchased $354 million of our common stock, distributed $286 million to noncontrolling interest owners, and paid $78 million in dividends to our shareholders . Borrowings and Repayments of Long-term Debt In 2021, we had net repayments of debt of $1.3 billion, which consisted of the repayment of the $1.7 billion outstanding on CityCenter's credit facility in full, which was assumed in the acquisition, using cash on hand, and net repayments of $407 million on MGM China’s first revolving credit facility. These repayments were partially offset by MGM China’s March 2021 issuance of $750 million in aggregate principal amount of 4.75% senior notes due 2027 at an issue price of 99.97% and net draws of $40 million on the Operating Partnership's revolving credit facility, of which $35 million was used in connection with MGP's acquisition of MGM Springfield with the remainder used to fund the Operating Partnership's and MGP's distribution and dividend payments. The net proceeds from MGM China’s 4.75% senior notes due 2027 issuance were used to partially repay amounts outstanding under the MGM China first revolving credit facility and for general corporate purposes. 51 In 2020, we had net proceeds from the incurrence of the bridge loan facility in connection with the MGP BREIT Venture Transaction of $1.3 billion and net debt borrowings of $1.1 billion, which consisted of net borrowings on MGM China’s credit facility of $103 million, our issuance of $750 million of 4.75% senior notes and $750 million of 6.75% senior notes, the Operating Partnership’s issuance of $750 million of 3.875% senior notes and $800 million of 4.625% senior notes, and MGM China’s issuance of $500 million of 5.25% senior notes, partially offset by the tender of $750 million of our senior notes and the corresponding $97 million of tender offer costs, and the net repayment of $1.7 billion on the Operating Partnership's senior credit facility consisting of the repayment of $1.3 billion of its term loan B facility in full using the proceeds of the $1.3 billion bridge loan facility, which was then assumed by MGP BREIT Venture, the repayment of its $399 million term loan A facility in full using the net proceeds from MGP’s settlement of forward equity agreements, partially offset by a net draw of $10 million on its revolving credit facility. In March 2020, with certain of the proceeds from the MGP BREIT Venture Transaction, we completed cash tender offers for an aggregate amount of $750 million of our senior notes, comprised of $325 million principal amount of our outstanding 5.75% senior notes due 2025, $100 million principal amount of our outstanding 4.625% senior notes due 2026, and $325 million principal amount of our outstanding 5.5% senior notes due 2027. In May 2020, we issued $750 million in aggregate principal amount of 6.750% senior notes due 2025. The proceeds were used to further increase our liquidity position. In June 2020, the Operating Partnership issued $800 million in aggregate principal amount of 4.625% senior notes due 2025. The proceeds were used to repay borrowings on the Operating Partnership’s senior credit facility, which were used to fund the May 2020 redemption of $700 million of Operating Partnership units held by us. In June 2020, MGM China issued $500 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.25% senior notes due 2025. The proceeds were used to partially repay amounts outstanding under the MGM China credit facility and for general corporate purposes. In October 2020, we issued $750 million in aggregate principal amount of 4.75% senior notes due 2028. The proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. In November 2020, the Operating Partnership issued $750 million in aggregate principal amount of 3.875% senior notes due 2029. The proceeds were used for general corporate purposes, which included the December 2020 redemption of $700 million of the Operating Partnership units held by us. Dividends, Distributions to Noncontrolling Interest Owners and Share Repurchases In 2021, we repurchased and retired $1.8 billion of our common stock pursuant to our May 2018 $2.0 billion and February 2020 $3.0 billion stock repurchase programs. As a result of those repurchases, we completed our May 2018 $2.0 billion stock repurchase program, and the remaining availability under the February 2020 $3.0 billion stock repurchase program was $1.3 billion as of December 31, 2021. In 2020, we repurchased and retired $354 million of our common stock pursuant to our May 2018 $2.0 billion stock repurchase program. In March 2021, June 2021, September 2021, and December 2021, we paid dividends of $0.0025 per share, totaling $5 million for 2021. In March 2020, we paid a dividend of $0.15 per share, and in June 2020, September 2020 and December 2020, we paid dividends of $0.0025 per share, totaling $78 million for 2020. In 2020, MGM China paid the final dividend for 2019 of $41 million, of which we received $23 million and noncontrolling interests received $18 million. The Operating Partnership paid the following distributions to its partnership unit holders during 2021 and 2020: • $545 million of distributions paid in 2021, of which we received $243 million and MGP receiv ed $302 million, which MGP concurrently paid as a dividend to its Class A shareholders; and • $602 million of distributions paid in 2020, of which we received $358 million and MGP received $2 44 million, which MGP concurrently paid as a dividend to its Class A shareholders. Other Factors Affecting Liquidity and Anticipated Uses of Cash As previously discussed, the spread of COVID-19 and developments surrounding the global pandemic have had a significant impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows in 2020 and 2021 and may continue to impact our business in 2022 and thereafter . We require a certain amount of cash on hand to operate our resorts. 52 In addition to required cash on hand for operations, we utilize corporate cash management procedures to minimize the amount of cash held on hand or in banks. Funds are swept from the accounts at most of our domestic resorts daily into central bank accounts, and excess funds are invested overnight or are used to repay amounts drawn under our revolving credit facility. In addition, from time to time we may use excess funds to repurchase our outstanding debt and equity securities subject to limitations in our revolving credit facility and Delaware law, as applicable. We have significant outstanding debt, interest payments, rent payments, and contractual obligations in addition to planned capital expenditures and commitments, including acquiring the operations of The Cosmopolitan for cash consideration of $1.625 billion, as discussed further in Note 1 . As of December 31, 2021, we had cash and cash equivalents of $4.7 billion, of which MGM China held $399 million and the Operating Partnership held $8 million. In addition to our cash and cash equivalent balance, we have significant holdings: a 41.5% economic interest in MGP (refer to Note 1 for discussion on our agreement entered into in August 2021 regarding the VICI Transaction) and an approximate 56% interest in MGM China. At December 31, 2021, we had $12.9 billion in principal amount of indebtedness, including $360 million outstanding under the $1.25 billion MGM China first revolving credit facility and $50 million outstanding under the $1.35 billion Operating Partnership revolving credit facility. No amounts were drawn on our $1.675 billion revolving credit facility or the $400 million MGM China second revolving credit facility. We have $1.0 billion of debt maturing in the next twelve months, which we expect to repay with cash on hand. Due to the continued impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, in February 2021, MGM China further amended each of its first revolving credit facility and its second revolving credit facility to provide for waivers of the maximum leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio through the fourth quarter of 2022. In February 2022, MGM China further amended each of its first revolving credit facility and its second revolving credit facility to extend the financial covenant waivers through maturity. As of December 31, 2021, our expected cash interest payments, excluding MGP and MGM China, for 2022, 2023, and 2024 are approximately $300 million, $225 million, and $190 million, respectively, and our expected cash interest payments on a consolidated basis, which includes MGP if the VICI Transaction does not close and MGM China, for 2022, 2023, and 2024, are approximately $715 million, $625 million, and $585 million, respectively. We are also required as of December 31, 2021 to make annual cash rent payments of $1.6 billion, in the aggregate, under the triple-net lease agreements, which leases are also subject to annual escalators and also require us to pay substantially all costs associated with the lease, including real estate taxes, ground lease payments, insurance, utilities and routine maintenance, in addition to the annual cash rent. We have planned capital expenditures in 2022 of approximately $775 million to $815 million domestically and approximately $110 million to $130 million at MGM China, which is inclusive of the capital expenditures required under the triple-net lease agreements, each of which requires us to spend a specified percentage of net revenues, at the respective properties, on capital expenditures. We additionally have planned contributions to BetMGM in 2022 of approximately $225 million. We also expect to continue to repurchase shares pursuant to our February 2020 $3.0 billion share repurchase program. Subsequent to December 31, 2021, we repurchased approximately 15 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $43.88 per share for an aggregate amount of $670 million . Repurchased shares were retired. In January 2022, the Operating Partnership paid $141 million of distributions to its partnership unit holders, of which we received $59 million and MGP received $82 million, which MGP concurrently paid as a dividend to its Class A shareholders. On February 9, 2022 , our Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend of $0.0025 per share. The dividend will be payable on March 15, 2022 to holders of record on March 10, 2022 . Future determinations regarding the declaration and payment of dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on then-existing conditions, including our results of operations, financial condition, and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant . As previously discussed, the COVID-19 pandemic has caused, and is continuing to cause, significant economic disruption both globally and in the United States, and impacted our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows i n 2020 and 2021 and may continue to impact our business in 2022 and thereafter . As widespread vaccine distribution continues and operational restrictions have been removed, we have seen economic recovery in some of the market segments in which we operate, as shown in our Summary Operating Results. However, some areas continue to experience renewed outbreaks and surges in infection rates. As a result, our business segments continue to face many uncertainties and our operations remain vulnerable to reversal of these trends or other continuing negative effects caused by 53 the pandemic. We cannot predict the degree, or duration, to which our operations will be affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, and the effects could be material. We continue to monitor the evolving situation and guidance from international and domestic authorities, including federal, state and local public health authorities and may take additional actions based on their recommendations. In these circumstances, there may be developments outside our control requiring us to further adjust our operating plan, including the implementation or extension of new or existing restrictions, which may include the reinstatement of stay-at-home orders in the jurisdictions in which we operate or additional restrictions on travel and/or our business operations. Because the situation is ongoing, and because the duration and severity remain unclear, it is difficult to forecast any impacts on our future results. For additional information related to our long-term obligations, refer to the maturities of long-term debt table in Note 9 and the lease liability maturity table in Note 11. Principal Debt Arrangements See Note 9 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information regarding our debt agreements as of December 31, 2021. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management’s discussion and analysis of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources are based on our consolidated financial statements. To prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, we must make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. We regularly evaluate these estimates and assumptions, particularly in areas we consider to be critical accounting estimates, where the estimates and assumptions involve a significant level of estimation uncertainty and have had or are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. However, by their nature, judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty and therefore actual results can differ from our estimates. Loss Reserve for Casino Accounts Receivable Marker play represents a significant portion of the table games volume at certain of our Las Vegas resorts. Our other casinos do not emphasize marker play to the same extent, although we offer markers to customers at those casinos as well. MGM China extends credit to certain in-house VIP gaming customers and, historically, to gaming promoters. We maintain strict controls over the issuance of markers and aggressively pursue collection from our customers who fail to pay their marker balances timely. These collection efforts are similar to those used by most large corporations when dealing with overdue customer accounts, including the mailing of statements and delinquency notices, personal contacts, the use of outside collection agencies and civil litigation. Markers are generally legally enforceable instruments in the United States and Macau. Markers are not legally enforceable instruments in some foreign countries, but the United States assets of foreign customers may be reached to satisfy judgments entered in the United States. We consider the likelihood and difficulty of enforceability, among other factors, when we issue credit to customers at our domestic resorts who are not residents of the United States. MGM China performs background checks and investigates credit worthiness prior to issuing credit. Refer to Note 2 for further discussion of our casino receivables and those due from customers residing in foreign countries. We maintain a loss reserve for casino accounts at all of our operating casino resorts. The provision for doubtful accounts, an operating expense, increases the loss reserve. We regularly evaluate the loss reserve for casino accounts. At domestic resorts where marker play is not significant, the loss reserve is generally established by applying standard reserve percentages to aged account balances, which is supported by relevant historical analysis and any other known information such as the current economic conditions that could drive losses. At domestic resorts where marker play is significant, we apply standard reserve percentages to aged account balances under a specified dollar amount and specifically analyze the collectability of each account with a balance over the specified dollar amount, based on the age of the account, the customer’s current and expected future financial condition, collection history and current and expected future economic conditions. MGM China specifically analyzes the collectability of casino receivables on an individual basis taking into account the age of the account, the financial condition and the collection history of the customer or, historically, the gaming promoter. In addition to enforceability issues, the collectability of unpaid markers given by foreign customers at our domestic resorts is affected by a number of factors, including changes in currency exchange rates and economic conditions in the customers’ home countries. Because individual customer account balances can be significant, the loss reserve and the provision can change significantly between periods, as information about a certain customer becomes known or as changes in a region’s economy occur. 54 The following table shows key statistics related to our casino receivables, net of discounts: Approximately $63 million and $54 million of casino receivables and $31 million and $18 million of the loss reserve for casino accounts receivable relate to MGM China at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The loss reserve as a percentage of casino accounts receivable decreased in the current year due to a decrease in specific reserves at our domestic resorts, as well as the i nclusion of Aria in the current year, which had a lower loss reserve compared to our other domestic resorts due to the age of its outstanding receivables, partially offset by an increase in the loss reserve at MGM China primarily due to an increase in its specific reserves. At December 31, 2021, a 100 basis-point change in the loss reserve as a percentage of casino accounts receivable would change income before income taxes by $4 million. Fixed Asset Capitalization and Depreciation Policies Property and equipment are stated at cost. A significant amount of our property and equipment was acquired through business combinations and was therefore recognized at fair value at the acquisition date. Maintenance and repairs that neither materially add to the value of the property nor appreciably prolong its life are charged to expense as incurred. Depreciation and amortization are provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. When we construct assets, we capitalize direct costs of the project, including fees paid to architects and contractors, property taxes, and certain costs of our design and construction subsidiaries. In addition, interest cost associated with major development and construction projects is capitalized as part of the cost of the project. Interest is typically capitalized on amounts expended on the project using the weighted average cost of our outstanding borrowings. Capitalization of interest starts when construction activities begin and ceases when construction is substantially complete, or development activity is suspended for more than a brief period. We must make estimates and assumptions when accounting for capital expenditures. Whether an expenditure is considered a maintenance expense, or a capital asset is a matter of judgment. When constructing or purchasing assets, we must determine whether existing assets are being replaced or otherwise impaired, which also may be a matter of judgment. In addition, our depreciation expense is highly dependent on the assumptions we make about our assets’ estimated useful lives. We determine the estimated useful lives based on our experience with similar assets, engineering studies, and our estimate of the usage of the asset. Whenever events or circumstances occur which change the estimated useful life of an asset, we account for the change prospectively. Impairment of Long-lived Assets, Goodwill and Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets We evaluate our property and equipment and other long-lived assets for impairment based on our classification as held for sale or to be held and used. Several criteria must be met before an asset is classified as held for sale, including that management with the appropriate authority commits to a plan to sell the asset at a reasonable price in relation to its fair value and is actively seeking a buyer. For assets classified as held for sale, we recognize the asset at the lower of carrying value or fair market value less costs of disposal, as estimated based on comparable asset sales, offers received, or a discounted cash flow model. For assets to be held and used, we review for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. We then compare the estimated future cash flows of the asset, on an undiscounted basis, to the carrying value of the asset. If the undiscounted cash flows exceed the carrying value, no impairment is indicated. If the undiscounted cash flows do not exceed the carrying value, then an impairment is recorded based on the fair value of the asset. For operating assets, fair value is typically measured using a discounted cash flow model whereby future cash flows are discounted using a weighted average cost of capital, developed using a standard capital asset pricing model, based on guideline companies in our industry. If an asset is still under development, future cash flows include remaining construction costs. All recognized impairment losses, whether for assets to be held for sale or assets to be held and used, are recorded as operating expenses. There are several estimates, assumptions and decisions in measuring impairments of long-lived assets. First, management must determine the usage of the asset. To the extent management decides that an asset will be sold, it is more likely that an impairment may be recognized. Assets must be tested at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows exist. This means that some assets must be grouped, and management has some discretion in the grouping of assets. Future cash flow estimates are, by their nature, subjective and actual results may differ materially from our estimates. 55 On a quarterly basis, we review our major long-lived assets to determine if events have occurred or circumstances exist that indicate a potential impairment. Potential factors which could trigger an impairment include underperformance compared to historical or projected operating results, negative industry or economic factors, significant changes to our operating environment, or changes in intended use of the asset group. We estimate future cash flows using our internal budgets and probability weight cash flows in certain circumstances to consider alternative outcomes associated with recoverability of the asset group, including potential sale. Historically, undiscounted cash flows of our significant operating asset groups have exceeded their carrying values by a substantial margin. During 2019, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge relating to the carrying value of Circus Circus Las Vegas and adjacent land. Refer to Note 16 for further discussion. We review indefinite-lived intangible assets at least annually and between annual test dates in certain circumstances. We perform our annual impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. Indefinite-lived intangible assets consist primarily of license rights and trademarks. For our 2021 annual impairment tests, we utilized the option to perform a qualitative (“step zero”) analysis for certain of our indefinite-lived intangibles and concluded it was more likely than not that the fair values of such intangibles exceeded their carrying values by a substantial margin. We elected to perform a quantitative analysis for the MGM Northfield Park gaming license in 2021 primarily using the discounted cash flow approach, for which the fair value exceeded its carrying value by a substantial margin. As discussed below, management makes significant judgments and estimates as part of these analyses. If certain future operating results do not meet current expectations it could cause carrying values of the intangibles to exceed their fair values in future periods, potentially resulting in an impairment charge. We review goodwill at least annually and between annual test dates in certain circumstances. None of our reporting units incurred any goodwill impairment charges in 2021. For our 2021 annual impairment tests, we utilized the option to perform a step zero analysis for certain of our reporting units and concluded it was more likely than not that the fair values of such reporting units exceeded their carrying values by a substantial margin. As discussed below, management makes significant judgments and estimates as part of these analyses. If future operating results of our reporting units do not meet current expectations it could cause carrying values of our reporting units to exceed their fair values in future periods, potentially resulting in a goodwill impairment charge. There are several estimates inherent in evaluating these assets for impairment. In particular, future cash flow estimates are, by their nature, subjective and actual results may differ materially from our estimates. In addition, the determination of multiples, capitalization rates and the discount rates used in the impairment tests are highly judgmental and dependent in large part on expectations of future market conditions. See Note 2 and Note 7 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion of goodwill and other intangible assets. Impairment of Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates See Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for discussion of our evaluation of other-than-temporary impairment of investments in unconsolidated affiliates. During 2021 and 2020, we recorded $22 million and $64 million, respectively, in other-than-temporary impairment charges on equity method investments. Refer to Note 6 for further discussion. Our investments in unconsolidated affiliates had no material impairments in 2019. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, various state and local jurisdictions, and foreign jurisdictions, although the income taxes paid in foreign jurisdictions are not material. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities related to net operating losses, tax credit carryforwards and temporary differences with future tax consequences. We reduce the carrying amount of deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not such assets will not be realized. Accordingly, the need to establish valuation allowances for deferred tax assets is assessed at each reporting period based on such "more-likely-than-not" realization threshold. This assessment considers, among other matters, the nature, frequency and severity of current and cumulative losses, forecasts of future profitability, the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, the duration of statutory carryforward periods, and tax planning strategies. We recorded a valuation allowance on the net deferred tax assets of our domestic jurisdictions of $2.7 billion as of both December 31, 2021 and 2020, and a valuation allowance on certain net deferred tax assets of foreign jurisdictions of $149 million and $156 million as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. We reassess the realization of deferred tax assets each reporting period. In the event we were to determine that it is more likely than not that we will be unable to 56 realize all or part of our deferred tax assets in the future, we would increase the valuation allowance and recognize a corresponding charge to earnings or other comprehensive income in the period in which we make such a determination. Likewise, if we later determine that we are more likely than not to realize the deferred tax assets, we would reverse the applicable portion of the previously recognized valuation allowance. In order for us to realize our deferred tax assets, we must be able to generate sufficient taxable income in the jurisdictions in which the deferred tax assets are located. Furthermore, we are subject to routine corporate income tax audits in many of these jurisdictions. We believe that positions taken on our tax returns are fully supported, but tax authorities may challenge these positions, which may not be fully sustained on examination by the relevant tax authorities. Accordingly, our income tax provision includes amounts intended to satisfy assessments that may result from these challenges. Determining the income tax provision for these potential assessments and recording the related effects requires management judgments and estimates. The amounts ultimately paid on resolution of an audit could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax provision and, therefore, could have a material impact on our income tax provision, net income and cash flows. Refer to Note 10 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion relating to income taxes.