********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. Before you buy our Common Stock or Common Stock Non-Voting, you should know that making such an investment involves risks, including the risks described below. It is not possible for management to predict all such risks, nor can management assess the impact of all such risks on our business or the extent to which any risk, or combination of risks, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or are currently deemed to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations in the future. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Company, Business and Operations Deterioration of global economic conditions, an economic recession or slow growth, periods of inflation, or economic uncertainty in our key markets may adversely affect customer and consumer spending as well as demand for our products. Global economic conditions can be uncertain and volatile. Our business and results of operations have in the past been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by changes in global economic conditions including inflation, changes in prevailing interest rates, bank failures, the impact of any potential U.S. federal government shutdown, changes in governmental rules and approaches to taxation, fluctuations in foreign currency interest rates, availability 6 of capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs, the negative impacts caused by pandemics and public health crises, as well as the potential impacts of geopolitical uncertainties and international conflicts, including the ongoing conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and Israel and Hamas, and the effect of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions.  As global economic conditions continue to be volatile or economic uncertainty remains, trends in consumer spending also remain unpredictable and subject to reductions due to credit constraints and uncertainties about the future. We are a manufacturer and distributor of flavor products. As such, many of our products are purchased by our customers based on end-user demand from consumers. Some of the factors that may influence consumer spending include general economic conditions, high levels of unemployment, pandemics and public health crises, higher consumer debt levels, reductions in net worth based on market declines and uncertainty, home foreclosures and reductions in home values, fluctuating interest and foreign currency exchange rates and credit availability, fluctuating fuel and other energy costs, fluctuating commodity prices, inflationary pressure, tax rates and general uncertainty regarding the overall future economic environment. Unfavorable economic conditions may lead customers and consumers to delay or reduce purchases of our products. Consumer demand for our products may not reach our targets, or may decline, when there is an economic downturn or economic uncertainty in our key markets. Our sensitivity to economic cycles and any related fluctuation in customer and consumer demand may have a material negative impact on our business, financial conditions or results of operations. Damage to our reputation or brand name, loss of brand relevance, increase in use of private label or other competitive brands by customers or consumers, or product quality or safety concerns could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have many iconic brands with long-standing consumer recognition. Our success depends on our ability to maintain our brand image for our existing products, extend our brands to new platforms, and expand our brand image with new product offerings. We continually make efforts to maintain and improve relationships with our customers and consumers and to increase awareness and relevance of our brands through effective marketing and other measures. From time to time, our customers reevaluate their mix of product offerings, and consumers have the option to purchase private label or other competitive products instead of our branded products. In the event that we are unable to supply our products to customers in the time frame and quantities that they desire, whether due to increased demand or other factors, our customers may discontinue all or a portion of their purchases from us and source competitive brands. If a significant portion of our branded business was switched to private label or competitive products, it could have a material negative impact on our consumer segment. Our reputation for manufacturing high-quality products is widely recognized. In order to safeguard that reputation, we have adopted rigorous quality assurance and quality control procedures which are designed to ensure the safety of our products.  A serious breach of our quality assurance or quality control procedures, deterioration of our quality image, impairment of our customer or consumer relationships or failure to adequately protect the relevance of our brands may lead to litigation, customers purchasing from our competitors or consumers purchasing other brands or private label items that may or may not be manufactured by us, any of which could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The food industry generally is subject to risks posed by food spoilage and contamination, product tampering, product recall, import alerts and consumer product liability claims. For instance, we may be required to recall certain of our products should they be mislabeled, contaminated or damaged. Additionally, certain of our raw materials could be blocked from entering the country if they were subject to government-imposed actions. We have and may continue to become involved in lawsuits and legal proceedings if it is alleged that the consumption of any of our products could cause injury or illness, or that any of our products are mislabeled or fail to meet applicable legal requirements (even if the allegation is untrue). A product recall, import alert or an adverse result in any such litigation, or negative perceptions regarding food products and ingredients, could result in our having to pay fines or damages, incur additional costs or cause customers and consumers in our principal markets to lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain products or ingredients, any of which could have a negative effect on our business or financial results and, depending upon the significance of the affected product, that negative effect could be material to our business or financial results. Negative publicity about these concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage customers and consumers from buying our products or cause disruptions in production or distribution of our products and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The rising popularity of social networking and other consumer-oriented technologies has increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination (whether or not accurate), and, as a result, negative, inaccurate, or misleading posts or comments on websites may generate adverse publicity that could damage our reputation or brands. 7 Customer consolidation, consumer behaviors, and competitive, economic and other pressures facing our customers, may impact our financial condition or results of operations. A number of our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years and consolidation could continue. Such consolidation could present a challenge to margin growth and profitability in that it has produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories; resisting price increases; demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products; and shifting shelf space currently used for our products to private label and other competitive products. The economic and competitive landscape for our customers is constantly changing, such as the emergence of new sales channels like e-commerce, and our customers' responses to those changes could impact our business. The continued growth of e-commerce and its impact of consumer habits and preferences has accelerated in many of the markets we serve and our financial results may be impacted if we are unable to adapt to changing consumer preferences and market dynamics. In addition, our flavor solutions segment may be impacted if the reputation or perception of the customers of our flavor solutions segment declines. These factors could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The inability to maintain mutually beneficial relationships with large customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a number of major customers, including two large customers that, in the aggregate, constituted approximately 25% of consolidated sales in 2023. The loss of either of these large customers due to events beyond our control, or a material negative change in our relationship with these large customers or other major customers could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Issues regarding procurement of raw materials may negatively impact us. Our purchases of raw materials are subject to fluctuations in market price and availability caused by inflationary pressures, weather, growing and harvesting conditions, climate change, market conditions, governmental actions and other factors beyond our control, including outbreaks of illnesses, pandemics (such as the COVID-19 pandemic) or other local or global health issues. The most significant raw materials used by us in our business are dairy products, pepper, onion, garlic, capsicums (red peppers and paprika), tomato products, salts, and wheat products. While future price movements of raw material costs are uncertain, we seek to mitigate the market price risk in a number of ways, including strategic raw material purchases, purchases of raw material for future delivery, customer price adjustments and cost savings from our CCI program. We generally have not used derivatives to manage the volatility related to this risk. To the extent that we have used derivatives for this purpose, it has not been material to our business. Any actions we take in response to market price fluctuations may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to changes in raw material prices. Therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future raw material price fluctuations will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. In addition, we may have very little opportunity to mitigate the risk of availability of certain raw materials due to the effect of weather on crop yield, fire, natural disasters, growing and harvesting conditions, government actions, political unrest in producing countries, action or inaction by suppliers in response to laws and regulations, changes in agricultural programs and other factors beyond our control. Therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future raw material availability will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. Political, socio-economic, cultural, and geopolitical (including instability and international conflicts such as the ongoing conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and Israel and Hamas) conditions, as well as disruptions caused by terrorist activities or otherwise, could also create additional risks for regulatory compliance. Although we have adopted rigorous quality assurance and quality control procedures which are designed to ensure the safety of our imported products, we cannot provide assurance that such events will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. Disruption of our supply chain could adversely affect our business. Our ability to make, move, and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to raw material supplies or our manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, climate change, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, cyber-attack, health epidemics, pandemics or other contagious outbreaks, governmental restrictions or mandates, strikes, import/export restrictions, or other factors could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Many of our product lines are manufactured at a single location. The failure of third parties on which we rely, including those third parties who supply our ingredients, packaging, capital equipment and other necessary operating materials, contract manufacturers, commercial transport, distributors, contractors, and external business partners, to meet their obligations to us, or significant disruptions in their ability to do so, may negatively impact our operations. Our suppliers’ policies and practices can damage our reputation and the quality and safety of our products. Disputes 8 with significant suppliers, including disputes regarding pricing or performance, could adversely affect our ability to supply products to our customers and could materially and adversely affect our sales, financial condition, and results of operations. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, particularly when a product is manufactured from a single location, could adversely affect our business and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. Moreover, short term or sustained increases in consumer demand at our customers may exceed our production capacity or otherwise strain our supply chain. Our failure to meet the demand for our products could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our results of operations can be adversely affected by labor shortages, turnover and labor cost increases or any failure to effectively manage changes in our workforce. Labor is a primary component of operating our business. A number of factors may adversely affect the labor force available to us or increase labor costs such as the shift towards hybrid or remote work arrangements, higher unemployment subsidies, other government regulations and general macroeconomic factors. A sustained labor shortage or increased turnover rates within our employee base could lead to increased costs, such as increased overtime to meet demand and increased wage rates and employee benefits costs to attract and retain employees and could negatively affect our ability to efficiently operate our manufacturing and distribution facilities and overall business. If we are unable to hire and retain employees capable of performing at a high-level, or if mitigation measures we may take to respond to a decrease in labor availability, such as overtime and third-party outsourcing, have negative effects, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, we distribute our products and receive raw materials primarily by truck. Reduced availability of trucking capacity due to shortages of drivers has caused an increase in the cost of transportation for us and our suppliers. An overall labor shortage, lack of skilled labor, increased turnover or labor inflation could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. We may not be able to increase prices to fully offset inflationary pressures on costs, such as raw and packaging materials, labor and distribution costs, which may impact our financial condition or results of operations. As a manufacturer and distributor of flavor products, we rely on raw materials, packaging materials, plant labor, distribution resources, and transportation providers. During recent years, we have experienced significantly elevated commodity and supply chain costs, including the costs of raw materials, packaging materials, labor, energy, fuel, transportation and other inputs necessary for the production and distribution of our products, and we expect inflation to continue in 2024 but at a more modest rate than experienced in 2023 and 2022. In addition, many of these materials and costs are subject to price fluctuations from a number of factors, including, but not limited to, market conditions, demand for raw materials, weather, growing and harvesting conditions, climate change, energy costs, currency fluctuations, supplier capacities, governmental actions, import and export requirements (including tariffs), armed hostilities (including the ongoing conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and Israel and Hamas) and other factors beyond our control. Our attempts to offset these cost pressures, such as through increases in the selling prices of some of our products, may not be successful. Higher product prices may result in reductions in sales volume. Consumers may be less willing to pay a price differential for our branded products and may increasingly purchase lower-priced offerings, or may forego some purchases altogether, during an economic downturn or times of increased inflationary pressure. To the extent that price increases or packaging size decreases are not sufficient to offset these increased costs adequately or in a timely manner, and/or if they result in significant decreases in sales volume, our business, financial condition or operating results may be adversely affected. Furthermore, we may not be able to fully offset any cost increases through our productivity or efficiency initiatives. Our profitability may suffer as a result of competition in our markets. The food industry is intensely competitive. Competition in our product categories is based on price, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing and promotional activity, and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. Weak economic conditions, recessions, significant inflation and other factors, such as pandemics, could affect consumer preferences and demand. From time to time, we may need to reduce the prices for some of our products to respond to competitive and customer pressures, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty or significant inflation, which may adversely affect our profitability. Such pressures could reduce our ability to take appropriate remedial action to address commodity and other cost increases. 9 Ongoing political conflicts and the related implications may negatively impact our operations. In February 2022, Russia invaded Ukraine. As a result, the U.S. and certain other countries have imposed sanctions on Russia and could impose further sanctions that could damage or disrupt international commerce and the global economy. It is not possible to predict the broader or longer-term consequences of this conflict or the sanctions imposed to date, which could include further sanctions, embargoes, regional instability, geopolitical shifts and adverse effects on macroeconomic conditions, security conditions, energy and fuel prices, currency exchange rates and financial markets. Such geopolitical instability and uncertainty could have a negative impact on our ability to sell to, ship products to, collect payments from, and support customers in certain regions based on trade restrictions, embargoes and export control law restrictions, and logistics restrictions including closures of air space, and could increase the costs, risks and adverse impacts from supply chain and logistics challenges. The potential effects of the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine, as well as other conflicts, including between Israel and Hamas and in the Red Sea, could also impact many of the other risk factors described herein. These potential effects could include, but are not limited to, variations in the level of our profitability, changes in laws and regulations affecting our business, fluctuations in foreign currency markets, the availability of future borrowings, the cost of borrowings, credit risks of our customers and counterparties, and potential impairment of the carrying value of goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets. Given the evolving nature of these conflicts, the related sanctions, potential governmental actions and economic impact, such potential impacts remain uncertain. While we expect the impacts of these conflicts to continue to have an effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, we are unable to predict the extent or nature of these impacts at this time. Our operations may be impaired as a result of disasters, business interruptions or similar events. We could have an interruption in our business, loss of inventory or data, or be rendered unable to accept and fulfill customer orders as a result of a natural disaster, catastrophic event, epidemic, computer system failure, or cyber-attack. Natural disasters could include an earthquake, fire, floods, tornado or severe storm. A catastrophic event could include a terrorist attack. A health epidemic, pandemic, or other contagious outbreak could affect our operations, major facilities or employees’ and consumers’ health. In addition, some of our inventory and production facilities are located in areas that are susceptible to harsh weather; a major storm, flood, wildfires, heavy snowfall or other similar event could prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner and negatively impact consumer spending and demand in affected areas. Production of certain of our products is concentrated in a single manufacturing site. We cannot provide assurance that our disaster recovery plan will address all of the issues we may encounter in the event of a disaster or other unanticipated issue, and our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur from any of the foregoing. In the event that a natural disaster, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event were to destroy any part of our facilities or interrupt our operations for any extended period of time, or if harsh weather or health conditions prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner, our business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully consummate and manage ongoing acquisition, joint venture and divestiture activities which could have an impact on our results. From time to time, we may acquire other businesses and, based on an evaluation of our business portfolio, divest existing businesses. These acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures may present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulty with integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, increased expenses and raw material costs, assumption of unknown liabilities and indemnities, and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. In addition, we may be required to incur asset impairment charges (including charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets) in connection with acquired businesses, which may reduce our profitability. If we are unable to consummate such transactions, or successfully integrate and grow acquisitions and achieve contemplated revenue synergies and cost savings, our financial results could be adversely affected. Additionally, joint ventures inherently involve a lesser degree of control over business operations, thereby potentially increasing the financial, legal, operational, and/or compliance risks. An impairment of the carrying value of goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets could adversely affect our results. As of November 30, 2023, we had approximately $5.3 billion of goodwill and approximately $3.0 billion of other indefinite-lived intangible assets. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are initially recorded at fair value 10 and not amortized but are tested for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. We test goodwill at the reporting unit level by comparing the carrying value of the net assets of the reporting unit, including goodwill, to the unit's fair value. Similarly, we test indefinite-lived intangible assets by comparing the fair value of those assets to their carrying values. If the carrying values of the reporting unit or indefinite-lived intangible assets exceed their fair value, the goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets are considered impaired and reduced to their estimated fair value. Factors that could result in an impairment include a change in revenue growth rates, operating margins, weighted average cost of capital, future economic and market conditions, higher income tax rates, or assumed royalty rates. The impairment of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets would have a negative impact on our consolidated results of operations. Because indefinite-lived intangible assets are recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition of the related business, indefinite-lived intangible assets associated with recent business acquisitions, particularly those acquired in low interest rate environments, such as Cholula and FONA, are more susceptible to impairment in periods of rising interest rates than indefinite-lived intangible assets related to businesses acquired in periods of higher interest rates. Streamlining actions to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and improve our competitiveness may have a negative effect on employee relations. We regularly evaluate whether to implement changes to our organization structure to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and improve our competitiveness, and we expect to continue to evaluate such actions in the future. From time to time, those changes are of such significance that we may transfer production from one manufacturing facility to another; transfer certain selling and administrative functions from one location to another; eliminate certain manufacturing, selling and administrative positions; and exit certain businesses or lines of business. These actions may result in a deterioration of employee relations at the impacted locations or elsewhere in our business. If we are unable to fully realize the benefits from our CCI program or streamlining actions to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve our competitiveness, our financial results could be negatively affected. Our future success depends in part on our ability to be an efficient producer in a highly competitive industry, including our plan to eliminate costs under our CCI and Global Operating Effectiveness (GOE) programs. Any failure by us to achieve our planned cost savings and efficiencies under our CCI program, an ongoing initiative to improve productivity and reduce costs throughout the organization, or other similar programs, including our GOE program, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. Fluctuations in foreign currency markets may negatively impact us. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency in the following main areas: cash flows related to raw material purchases; the translation of foreign currency earnings to U.S. dollars; the effects of foreign currency on loans between subsidiaries and unconsolidated affiliates and on cash flows related to repatriation of earnings of unconsolidated affiliates. We have both translation and transaction exposures to the fluctuation of exchange rates.  Translation exposures relate to exchange rate impacts of measuring income statements of foreign subsidiaries that do not use the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. Transaction exposures relate to the impact from input costs that are denominated in a currency other than the local reporting currency and the revaluation of transaction-related working capital balances or loans between subsidiaries and unconsolidated affiliates denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. Historically, weakening of certain foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar have resulted in significant foreign exchange impacts leading to lower net sales, net earnings and cash flows. Primary exposures include the U.S. dollar versus the Euro, British pound sterling, Chinese renminbi, Canadian dollar,  Australian dollar, Polish zloty, Singapore dollar, Swiss franc, and Mexican peso, as well as the Euro versus the British pound sterling and Australian dollar, and Polish zloty, and finally the Canadian dollar versus British pound sterling. We routinely enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to facilitate managing certain of these foreign currency risks. However, these contracts may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to a decline in operating results due to foreign currency exchange changes. Therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future exchange rate fluctuations will not have a negative impact on our business, financial position or operating results. We face risks associated with certain pension assets and obligations. We hold investments in equity and debt securities in our qualified defined benefit pension plans and in a rabbi trust for our U.S. non-qualified pension plan. Deterioration in the value of plan assets resulting from a general financial downturn or otherwise, or an increase in the actuarial valuation of the plans' liability due to a low interest rate environment, could cause (or increase) an underfunded status of our defined benefit pension plans, thereby 11 increasing our obligation to make contributions to the plans. An obligation to make contributions to pension plans could reduce the cash available for working capital and other corporate uses, and may have an adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. Climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change, may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unseasonable or unusual weather or long-term climate changes may negatively impact the price or availability of spices, herbs and other raw materials. Scientific consensus shows that greenhouse gases in the atmosphere have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. In the event that such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity or practices, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products. As a result of climate change, we may also be subjected to decreased availability of water, deteriorated quality of water or less favorable pricing for water, which could adversely impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. In addition, such climate change may result in modifications to the eating preferences of the ultimate consumers of certain of our products, which may also unfavorably impact our sales and profitability. The physical effects and transitional costs of climate change and the legal, regulatory or market initiatives to address climate change could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. There is an increased focus by foreign, federal, state and local regulatory and legislative bodies regarding environmental policies relating to climate change, regulating greenhouse gas emissions (including carbon pricing, cap and trade systems, or carbon taxes), energy policies, and sustainability. Increased compliance costs and expenses due to the impacts of climate change and additional legal or regulatory requirements regarding climate change that are designed to reduce or mitigate the effects of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions on the environment may cause disruptions in, or an increase in the costs associated with, the running of our manufacturing facilities and our business, as well as increase distribution and supply chain costs. Moreover, compliance with any such legal or regulatory requirements may require us to make significant changes in our business operations and strategy, which will likely require us to devote substantial time and attention to these matters and cause us to incur additional costs. Even if we make changes to align ourselves with such legal or regulatory requirements, we may still be subject to significant penalties or potential litigation if such laws and regulations are interpreted and applied in a manner inconsistent with our practices. The effects of climate change and legal or regulatory initiatives to address climate change could have a long-term adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Additionally, we might fail to effectively address increased attention from the media, stockholders, activists and other stakeholders on climate change and related environmental sustainability matters. Such failure, or the perception that we have failed to act responsibly regarding climate change, whether or not valid, could result in adverse publicity and negatively affect our business and reputation. Moreover, from time to time we establish and publicly announce goals and commitments, including to reduce our impact on the environment. For example, we established science-based target 2025 – 2030 goals for Scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas emissions. Our ability to achieve any stated goal, target or objective is subject to numerous factors and conditions, many of which are outside of our control. Examples of such factors include evolving regulatory requirements affecting sustainability standards or disclosures or imposing different requirements, the pace of changes in technology, the availability of requisite financing and the availability of suppliers that can meet our sustainability and other standards and changing business dynamics including acquisitions. Furthermore, standards for tracking and reporting such matters continue to evolve. Our selection of voluntary disclosure frameworks and standards, and the interpretation or application of those frameworks and standards, may change from time to time or differ from those of others. Methodologies for reporting these data may be updated and previously reported data may be adjusted to reflect improvement in availability and quality of third-party data, changing assumptions, changes in the nature and scope of our operations (including from acquisitions and divestitures), and other changes in circumstances, which could result in significant revisions to our current goals, reported progress in achieving such goals, or ability to achieve such goals in the future. If we fail to achieve, or are perceived to have failed or been delayed in achieving, or improperly report our progress toward achieving these goals and commitments, it could negatively affect consumer or customer preference for our products or investor confidence in our stock, as well as expose us to enforcement actions and litigation. In addition, we could be criticized by ESG detractors for the scope or nature of our ESG initiatives or goals or for any revisions to these goals. We could also be subjected to negative responses by governmental actors (such as 12 anti-ESG legislation or retaliatory legislative treatment) or consumers (such as boycotts or negative publicity campaigns) that could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial performance and growth. ESG issues, including those related to climate change and sustainability, may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and damage our reputation. Companies across all industries are facing increasing scrutiny relating to their ESG policies. If we are unable to meet our ESG goals or evolving investor, industry or stakeholder expectations and standards, or if we are perceived to have not responded appropriately to the growing concern for ESG issues, customers and consumers may choose to stop purchasing our products or purchase products from another company or a competitor, and our reputation, business or financial condition may be adversely affected. Increased focus and activism on ESG topics may hinder our access to capital, as investors may reconsider their capital investment as a result of their assessment of our ESG practices. In particular, these constituencies are increasingly focusing on environmental issues, including climate change, water use, deforestation, plastic waste, and other sustainability concerns. Changing consumer preferences may result in increased demands regarding plastics and packaging materials, including single-use and non-recyclable plastic packaging, and other components of our products and their environmental impact on sustainability; a growing demand for natural or organic products and ingredients; or increased consumer concerns or perceptions (whether accurate or inaccurate) regarding the effects of ingredients or substances present in certain consumer products. These demands could impact the profitability of some of our products or cause us to incur additional costs, to make changes to our operations to make additional commitments, set targets or establish additional goals and take actions to meet them, which could expose us to market, operational and execution costs or risk. In addition to environmental issues these constituencies are also focused on social and other governance issues, including matters such as, but not limited to, human capital and social issues. We have established diversity, equity and inclusion goals as part of our ESG initiative. Our initiatives extend from individuals to entire communities, including those we serve and, just as importantly, those from which we source. Failure to attract, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified and diverse employee talent, especially in light of changing worker expectations and talent marketplace variability regarding flexible and hybrid work models, to meet our goals relating to fostering a diverse and inclusive culture or to adequately address potential increased scrutiny of our diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives could impact our ability to achieve our business objectives and adversely affect our future success. Concern over climate change, including plastics and packaging materials, in particular, may result in new or increased legal and regulatory requirements. Increased regulatory requirements related to environmental causes, and related ESG disclosure rules, including the SEC's recent disclosure proposal on climate change, may result in increased compliance costs or increased costs of energy, raw materials or compliance with emissions standards, which may cause disruptions in the manufacture of our products or an increase in operating costs. Any failure to achieve our ESG goals or a perception (whether or not valid) of our failure to act responsibly with respect to the environmental, human capital, or social issues, or to effectively respond to new, or changes in, legal or regulatory requirements concerning environmental or other ESG matters, or increased operating or manufacturing costs due to increased regulation or environmental causes could adversely affect our business and reputation and increase risk of litigation. Risks Relating to Credit and Capital Markets, Our Credit Rating, Borrowings and Dividends Increases in interest rates or changes in our credit ratings may negatively impact us. On November 30, 2023, we had total outstanding variable rate debt of approximately $320 million, including $272 million of short-term borrowings, at a weighted-average interest rate of approximately 5.5%. The interest rates under our revolving credit facilities can vary based on our credit ratings. We also regularly access the commercial paper markets for ongoing funding requirements. A downgrade in our credit ratings would increase our borrowing costs and could affect our ability to issue commercial paper. Additionally, disruptions in the commercial paper market or other effects of volatile economic conditions on the credit markets could also reduce the amount of commercial paper that we could issue and raise our borrowing costs. Our policy is to manage our interest rate risk by entering into both fixed and variable rate debt arrangements. We also use interest rate swaps to minimize worldwide financing cost and to achieve a desired mix of fixed and variable rate debt. On November 30, 2023, we had total outstanding fixed to variable interest rate swaps with a notional value of $600 million. We utilize derivative financial instruments to enhance our ability to manage risk, including interest rate exposures that exist as part of our ongoing business operations. We do not enter into contracts for trading purposes, nor are we a party to any leveraged derivative instruments. Our use of derivative financial instruments is monitored through regular communication with 13 senior management and the utilization of written guidelines. However, our use of these instruments may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to changes in interest rates. Therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future credit rating or interest rate changes will not have a material negative impact on our business, financial position or operating results. Our credit ratings impact the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, our cost of capital. Our credit ratings reflect each rating organization's opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations. Any reduction in our credit ratings may limit our ability to borrow as well as the interest rates that are associated with any such borrowing. If our credit ratings are downgraded or put on watch for a potential downgrade, we may not be able to sell additional debt securities or borrow money in the amounts, at the times or interest rates, or upon the more favorable terms and conditions that might be available if our current credit ratings were maintained. We may incur additional indebtedness to finance our acquisitions that may limit our ability to, among other matters, issue additional indebtedness, meet our debt service requirements, react to rising interest rates, comply with certain covenants and compete with less highly leveraged competitors. We have a significant amount of indebtedness outstanding. As of November 30, 2023, our indebtedness of McCormick and its subsidiaries is approximately $4.4 billion. This substantial level of indebtedness could have important consequences to our business, including, but not limited to: • increasing our debt service obligations, making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; • increasing our exposure to negative fluctuations in interest rates; • subjecting us to financial and other restrictive covenants, the non-compliance with which could result in an event of default; • increasing our vulnerability to, and reducing our flexibility to respond to, general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors, to the extent that they are not as highly leveraged. The deterioration of credit and capital markets may adversely affect our access to sources of funding. We rely on our revolving credit facilities, or borrowings backed by these facilities, to fund a portion of our working capital needs and other general corporate purposes, including funding of acquisitions. If any of the banks in the syndicates backing these facilities were unable to perform on its commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could adversely affect funding of seasonal working capital requirements. We engage in regular communication with all of the banks participating in our revolving credit facilities. During these communications, none of the banks have indicated that they may be unable to perform on their commitments. In addition, we periodically review our banking and financing relationships, considering the stability of the institutions, pricing we receive on services and other aspects of the relationships. Based on these communications and our monitoring activities, we believe the likelihood of one of our banks not performing on its commitment is remote. In addition, global capital markets have experienced volatility in the past, including related to recession, financial instability or inflation, that has tightened access to capital markets and other sources of funding, and such volatility and tightened access could reoccur in the future. In the event that we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time period. Our inability to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time period could have an adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. Uncertain global economic conditions expose us to credit risks from customers and counterparties. Consolidations in some of the industries in which our customers operate have created larger customers, some of which are highly leveraged. In addition, competition has increased with the growth in alternative channels through our customer base. These factors have caused some customers to be less profitable and increased our exposure to credit risk. Current credit markets are volatile, and some of our customers and counterparties are highly leveraged. A significant adverse change in the financial and/or credit position of a customer or counterparty could require us to 14 assume greater credit risk relating to that customer or counterparty and could limit our ability to collect receivables. This could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and liquidity. The declaration, payment and amount of dividends is made at the discretion of our board of directors and depends on a number of factors. The declaration, payment and amount of any dividends is made pursuant to our dividend policy and is subject to final determination each quarter by our board of directors in its discretion based on a number of factors that it deems relevant, including our financial position, results of operations, available cash resources, cash requirements and alternative uses of cash that our board of directors may conclude would be in the best interest of the company and our stockholders. Our dividend payments are subject to solvency conditions established by the Maryland General Corporation Law. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that any future dividends will be equal or similar in amount to any dividends previously paid or that our board of directors will not decide to reduce, suspend or discontinue the payment of dividends at any time in the future. Risks Related to Intellectual Property, Information Technology, and Cyber-Security Our intellectual property rights, and those of our customers, could be infringed, challenged or impaired, and reduce the value of our products and brands or our business with customers. We possess intellectual property rights that are important to our business, and we are provided access by certain customers to particular intellectual property rights belonging to such customers. These intellectual property rights include ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets which are important to our business and relate to some of our products, our packaging, the processes for their production, and the design and operation of equipment used in our businesses. We protect our intellectual property rights, and those of certain customers, globally through a variety of means, including trademarks, copyrights, patents and trade secrets, third-party assignments and nondisclosure agreements, and monitoring of third-party misuses of intellectual property in traditional retail and digital environments. If we fail to obtain or adequately protect our intellectual property (and the intellectual property of customers to which we have been given access), the value of our products and brands could be reduced and there could be an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations and reputation may be impaired if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or if we are the subject of a data breach or cyber-attack. Our information technology systems are critically important to operating our business.  We rely on our information technology systems, some of which are or may be managed or hosted by or outsourced to third party service providers, to manage our business data, communications, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment, and other business processes.  If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build, sustain, and protect appropriate information technology systems and infrastructure, or we do not effectively implement system upgrades or oversee third party service providers, our business or financial results could be negatively impacted.  The failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in transaction or reporting errors, processing inefficiencies and the loss of sales and customers, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. Furthermore, our information technology systems, and the systems of our customers, vendors, suppliers, and other third-party service providers, are subject to cyber-attacks or other security incidents including computer viruses or other malicious codes, phishing attacks, unauthorized access attempts, cyber extortion, business email compromise, deepfake or social engineering schemes, denial of service attacks, hacking, ransomware, or other cyberattacks attempting to exploit vulnerabilities. Cybercriminals have increasingly demonstrated advanced capabilities, such as use of zero-day vulnerabilities, and rapid integration of new technology such as generative artificial intelligence. Continued geographical turmoil, including the ongoing conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and Israel and Hamas, has heightened the risk of cyberattack.  Such incidents could result in unauthorized access to information including customer, consumer or other company confidential data as well as disruptions to operations. We, and the third-parties we do business with, have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience, cybersecurity threats and attacks, although to date none had a material impact on our operations or business. To address the risks to our information technology systems and data, we maintain an information security program that includes updating technology, developing security policies and procedures, implementing and assessing the effectiveness of controls, monitoring and routine testing of our information systems, conducting risk assessments of third-party service providers and designing business processes to mitigate the risk of such breaches. We believe 15 that these preventative actions provide adequate measures of protection against security breaches and generally reduce our cybersecurity risks. However, cyber-threats are constantly evolving, are becoming more sophisticated and are being made by groups of individuals with a wide range of expertise and motives, which increases the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. There can be no assurance that these measures will prevent or limit the impact of a future incident. Moreover, the development and maintenance of these measures requires continuous monitoring as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures evolve. Additionally, we rely on services provided by third-party vendors for certain information technology processes and functions, which makes our operations vulnerable to a failure by any one of these vendors to perform adequately or maintain effective internal controls. If we are unable to prevent or adequately respond to and resolve an incident, it may have a material, negative impact on our operations or business reputation, and we may experience other adverse consequences such as loss of assets, remediation costs, litigation, regulatory investigations, and the failure by us to retain or attract customers following such an event. If we are not able to successfully implement our business transformation initiative or utilize information technology systems and networks effectively, our ability to conduct our business may be negatively impacted. We continue to implement our multi-year business transformation initiative to execute significant change to our global processes, capabilities and operating model, including in our Global Business Services (GBS) operating model initiative, in order to provide a scalable platform for future growth, while reducing costs. As technology provides the backbone for greater process alignment, information sharing and scalability, we are also making investments in our information systems, including the multi-year program to replace our enterprise resource planning (ERP) system currently underway, which includes the transformation of our financial processing systems to enterprise-wide systems solutions. These systems implementations are part of our ongoing business transformation initiative, and we currently plan to implement these systems throughout all parts of our businesses. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper information technology infrastructure, or if we fail to achieve the expected benefits from this initiative, it may impact our ability to process transactions accurately and efficiently and remain in step with the changing needs of our business, which could result in the loss of customers and revenue. In addition, failure to either deliver the applications on time or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of customers and revenue. In connection with these implementations and resulting business process changes, we continue to enhance the design and documentation of business processes and controls, including our internal control over financial reporting processes, to maintain effective controls over our financial reporting. We utilize cloud-based services and systems and networks managed by third-party vendors to process, transmit and store information and to conduct certain of our business activities and transactions with employees, customers, vendors and other third parties. Our utilization of these cloud-based services and systems will increase as we implement our business transformation initiatives. If any of these third-party service providers or vendors do not perform effectively, or if we fail to adequately monitor their performance (including compliance with service-level agreements or regulatory or legal requirements), we may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers, our reputation could be harmed or we could be subject to litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, inquiries or investigations. Depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property or sensitive data through security breaches or otherwise, incorrect or adverse effects on financial reporting, litigation or remediation costs, or damage to our reputation, which could have a negative impact on employee morale. In addition, the management of multiple third-party service providers increases operational complexity and decreases our control. Risks Related to Our Global Business, Litigation, Laws and Regulations Laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. Food products are extensively regulated in most of the countries in which we sell our products. We are subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the growing, sourcing, manufacturing, storage, labeling, marketing, advertising and distribution of food products, as well as laws and regulations relating to financial reporting requirements, the environment, consumer protection, product design, competition, anti-corruption, privacy, machine learning and artificial intelligence, relations with distributors and retailers, foreign supplier verification, customs and trade laws, including the import and export of products and product ingredients, employment, and health and safety. Enforcement of existing laws and regulations, including changes in the enforcement priorities of regulators, changes in legal requirements, and/or evolving interpretations of existing regulatory requirements may result in increased 16 compliance costs and create other obligations, financial or otherwise, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Increased regulatory scrutiny of, and increased litigation involving, product claims and concerns regarding the attributes of food products and ingredients may increase compliance costs and create other obligations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Governments may also impose requirements and restrictions that impact our business, such as labeling disclosures pertaining to ingredients. For example, "Proposition 65, the Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986," in California exposes all food companies to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products in that state. If we were required to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in locations where our products are sold in order to comply with Proposition 65, the sales of those products and other products of our company could suffer, not only in those locations but elsewhere. In addition, there are various compliance obligations for companies that process personal data of certain individuals, including such obligations required by the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which affects all member states of the European Economic Area, and the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA). These types of data privacy laws create a range of compliance obligations for companies that process personal data of certain individuals and increases financial penalties for non-compliance. Our efforts to comply with these privacy and data protection laws may not be successful, or may be perceived to be unsuccessful, which could adversely affect our business in the United States, the European Union and in other countries. In the United States, for example, the CCPA imposes requirements on companies that do business in California and collect personal information from certain individuals, including notice, consent and service provider requirements. The CCPA also provides for civil penalties for companies that fail to comply with these requirements, as well as a private right of action for data breaches. Further, the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA) went into full effect on January 1, 2023 (with a ‘look-back’ to January 1, 2022). The CPRA builds on the CCPA and among other things, requires the establishment of a dedicated agency to regulate privacy issues. In 2021, Virginia, Colorado, Connecticut and Utah adopted laws which have now taken effect introducing new privacy obligations, which have required us to develop additional compliance mechanisms and processes. Many other states are considering similar legislation. A broad range of legislative measures also have been introduced at the federal level. There also is a wide range of enforcement agencies at both the state and federal levels that can review companies for privacy and data security concerns based on general consumer protection laws. The Federal Trade Commission and state Attorneys General all are aggressive in reviewing privacy and data security protections for consumers. Accordingly, failure to comply with federal and state laws (both those currently in effect and future legislation) regarding privacy and security of personal information could expose us to fines and penalties under such laws. There also is the threat of consumer class actions related to these laws and the overall protection of personal data. Even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could harm our reputation and our business. Similarly, outside of the United States, there are various laws and regulations governing the collection, use, disclosure, transfer, or other processing of personal data. For instance, the GDPR, which applies to the processing of personal data of individuals in the European Union, is wide-ranging in scope and imposes numerous requirements on companies that process personal data, including strict rules on the transfer of personal data to countries outside the European Union, including the United States. Beyond GDPR, there are privacy and data security laws in a growing number of countries around the world (including in the United Kingdom as a result of Brexit). While many loosely follow GDPR as a model, other laws contain different or conflicting provisions. These laws may impact our ability to conduct our business activities and the costs associated with these activities. Litigation, legal or administrative proceedings could have an adverse impact on our business and financial condition or damage our reputation. We are party to a variety of legal claims and proceedings in the ordinary course of business. Since litigation is inherently uncertain, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves against such claims or proceedings, or that management’s assessment of the materiality or immateriality of these matters, including any reserves taken in connection with such matters, will be consistent with the ultimate outcome of such claims or proceedings. In the event that management’s assessment of the materiality or immateriality of current claims and proceedings proves inaccurate, or litigation that is material arises in the future, there may be a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Any adverse publicity resulting from allegations made in litigation claims or legal or administrative proceedings (even if untrue) may also adversely affect our reputation. These factors and others could have an adverse impact on our business and financial condition or damage our reputation. 17 Our international and cross-border operations are subject to additional risks. We operate our business and market our products internationally. In fiscal year 2023, approximately 39% of our sales were generated in countries other than the U.S. Our international operations are subject to additional risks, including fluctuations in currency values, foreign currency exchange controls, discriminatory fiscal policies, compliance with U.S. and foreign laws, enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions and other economic or political uncertainties. Several countries within the European Union continue to experience sovereign debt and credit issues, which causes more volatility in the economic environment throughout the European Union and the U.K. Additionally, sales in countries other than the U.S., together with finished goods and raw materials imported into the U.S., are subject to risks related to fundamental changes to tax laws as well as the imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other similar restrictions. All of these risks could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, which could adversely affect our profitability. The global nature of our business, changes in tax legislation and the resolution of tax uncertainties create volatility in our effective tax rate. As a global business, our tax rate from period to period can be affected by many factors, including changes in tax legislation, our global mix of earnings, the tax characteristics of our income, acquisitions and dispositions, adjustments to our reserves related to uncertain tax positions, changes in valuation allowances and the portion of the income of international subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the U.S. and that will be taxable. In addition, significant judgment is required in determining our effective tax rate and in evaluating our tax positions. We establish accruals for certain tax contingencies when, despite the belief that our tax return positions are appropriately supported, the positions are uncertain. The tax contingency accruals are adjusted in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of tax audits, case law and emerging legislation. Our effective tax rate includes the impact of tax contingency accruals and changes to those accruals, including related interest and penalties, as considered appropriate by management. When particular matters arise, a number of years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved. Favorable resolution of such matters could be recognized as a reduction to our effective tax rate in the year of resolution. Unfavorable resolution of any particular issue could increase the effective tax rate and may require the use of cash in the year of resolution.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Overview The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to help the reader understand McCormick & Company, Incorporated, our operations and our present business environment from the perspective of management. MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our financial statements and the accompanying notes thereto contained in Item 8 of this report. We use certain non-GAAP information — more fully described below under the caption Non-GAAP Financial Measures — that we believe is important for purposes of comparison to prior periods and development of future projections and earnings growth prospects. This information is also used by management to measure the profitability of our ongoing operations and analyze our business performance and trends. The dollar and share information in the charts and tables in MD&A are in millions, except per share data. McCormick is a global leader in flavor. We manufacture, market and distribute spices, seasoning mixes, condiments and other flavorful products to the entire food and beverage industry–retailers, food manufacturers and foodservice businesses. We manage our business in two operating segments, consumer and flavor solutions, as described in Item 1 of this report. 20 Our long-term annual growth objectives in constant currency are to increase sales 4% to 6%, increase adjusted operating income 7% to 9% and increase adjusted earnings per share 9% to 11%. Our actual results for a year can vary from our long-term growth objectives. Over time, we expect to grow sales with similar contributions from: 1) our base business – driven by brand marketing support, category management, and differentiated customer engagement; 2) new products; and 3) acquisitions. Base Business – We expect to drive sales growth by optimizing our brand marketing investment through improved speed, quality, and effectiveness. We measure the return on our brand marketing investment and have identified digital marketing as one of our highest return investments in brand marketing support. Through digital marketing, we are connecting with consumers in a personalized way to deliver recipes, provide cooking advice and help them discover new products. New Products – For our consumer segment, we believe that scalable and differentiated innovation continues to be one of the best ways to distinguish our brands from our competition, including private label. We are introducing products for every type of cooking occasion, from gourmet, premium items to convenient and value-priced flavors. For flavor solutions customers, we are developing seasonings for snacks and other food products, as well as flavors for new menu items. We have a strong pipeline of flavor solutions products aligned with our customers’ new product launch plans, many of which include clean-label, organic, natural, and “better-for-you” innovation. With over 20 product innovation centers around the world, we are supporting the growth of our brands and those of our flavor solutions customers with products that appeal to local consumers. Acquisitions – Acquisitions are expected to approximate one-third of our sales growth over time. Since the beginning of 2018, we have completed two acquisitions, including our December 20, 2020 acquisition of FONA International, LLC and certain of its affiliates (FONA) and our November 30, 2020 acquisition of the parent company of Cholula Hot Sauce ® (Cholula) from L Catterton. These acquisitions are driving sales in both our consumer and flavor solutions segments. We focus on acquisition opportunities that meet the growing demand for flavor and health. Geographically, our focus is on acquisitions that build scale where we currently have presence in both developed and emerging markets. Executive Summary In 2023, we achieved net sales growth of 4.9% over the 2022 level due to the following factors: • Pricing actions, taken in response to the inflationary cost environment, contributed 8.5% to the increase in net sales. • Volume and product mix unfavorably impacted our net sales growth by 2.6%, exclusive of divestitures. Both our consumer and flavor solutions segments experienced unfavorable volume and product mix of 3.9% and 1.0%, respectively, including the impact of price elasticity. Our decisions to exit our consumer operations in Russia and certain low margin businesses contributed approximately 0.9% to the unfavorable impact of volume and product mix. • Divestitures negatively impacted our net sales increase by 0.4%. • Net sales growth was negatively impacted by fluctuations in currency rates that decreased sales growth by 0.6%. Excluding this impact, we grew sales by 5.5% over the prior year on a constant currency basis. Operating income was $963.0 million in 2023 and $863.6 million in 2022. We recorded $61.2 million and $51.6 million of special charges in 2023 and 2022, respectively, related to organization and streamlining actions. In 2022, we also recorded $2.2 million of transaction and integration expenses related to our acquisition of FONA that reduced operating income. In 2023, the effects of pricing actions taken in response to increased costs and cost savings from our GOE and CCI programs during 2022 were partially offset by increased employee incentive compensation and higher distribution costs. Excluding special charges and transaction and integration expenses related to our acquisition of FONA, adjusted operating income was $1,024.2 million in 2023, an increase of 11.6%, compared to $917.4 million in the year-ago period. In constant currency, adjusted operating income increased 12.0%. For further details and a reconciliation of non-GAAP to reported amounts, see the subsequent discussion under the heading "Non-GAAP Financial Measures". Diluted earnings per share was $2.52 in 2023 and 2022. In 2023, diluted earnings per share was driven primarily by the impact of higher operating income, an increase in interest expense, the unfavorable effects of a decrease in other income, and an increase in income from unconsolidated operations. Special charges and transaction and integration expenses lowered earnings per share by $0.18 and $0.15 in 2023 and 2022, respectively. A gain on our 21 sale of a business increased earnings per share by $0.14 in 2022. Excluding the effects of special charges, transaction and integration expenses, and the gain realized from the sale of a business, adjusted diluted earnings per share was $2.70 in 2023 and $2.53 in 2022, or an increase of 6.7%. Net cash provided by operating activities was $1,237.3 million, $651.5 million and $828.3 million in 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively. In 2023, we continued to have a balanced use of cash for debt repayment, capital expenditures and the return of cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. We are using our cash to fund shareholder dividends, with annual increases in each of the past 38 years, and to fund capital expenditures and acquisitions. In 2023, the return of cash to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases was $454.2 million. A detailed review of our fiscal 2023 performance compared to fiscal 2002 appears in the section titled “Results of Operations – 2023 Compared to 2022”. Recent Events During fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2023, we experienced inflationary cost increases in our commodities, packaging materials and transportation costs. While we continued to experience significant input cost inflation throughout fiscal 2023, our pricing actions, combined with cost savings from our Global Operating Effectiveness (GOE) program and our Comprehensive Continuous Improvement (CCI) program assisted in a 180-basis point recovery to gross margin. Additionally, in some instances, the pricing actions we take have been impacted by consumer behavior, or price elasticity, which unfavorably impacts our sales volume and mix. While we are seeing moderation in input cost inflation, we do expect inflationary pressures to persist into fiscal 2024. However, we anticipate GOE program and CCI program-led cost savings as well as previously implemented pricing actions to mitigate those inflationary pressures.  We will also be lapping 2023 price increases and anticipate favorable net price realization in 2024. We are fueling our investment in growth with cost savings from our CCI program, an ongoing initiative to improve productivity and reduce costs throughout the organization, as well as savings from the organization and streamlining actions described in note 3 of notes to our consolidated financial statements that includes our GOE program. Our CCI and GOE programs both delivered cost savings in 2023. Our CCI program funds brand marketing support, product innovation and other growth initiatives. We expect our CCI program, GOE program, and organization and streamlining actions to deliver additional savings in 2024. We are making investments to build the McCormick of the future, including in our Global Business Services (GBS) organization, to transform McCormick through globally aligned, innovative services to enable growth.  As technology provides the backbone for this greater process alignment, information sharing and scalability, we are also making investments in our information systems. We continue to progress our global enterprise resource planning (ERP) replacement program which will enable us to accelerate the transformation of our ways of working and provide a scalable platform for growth. We will concentrate our global ERP focus on our operations in the U.S. over the next several years, or through 2027. We expect that our annual capital expenditures, including the capitalized software associated with our ERP program, over the next several years will continue to approximate 4% of our sales. We expect that our operating expenses associated with our global ERP program through 2027 will approximate $35 million to $50 million annually. 2024 Outlook In 2024, we expect net sales to range from a decline of 2% to 0% from our net sales in 2023 including a 1% unfavorable impact of foreign currency rates, or to range from a decline of 1% to an increase of 1% on a constant currency basis. We anticipate that the 2024 sales change will include a favorable impact from previously implemented pricing actions.   We anticipate that our volume and product mix will be impacted by the divestiture of our Giotti canning business in the third quarter of last year, and the pruning of low margin businesses. We expect our 2024 gross profit margin to range from 50 basis points to 100 basis points higher than our gross profit margin of 37.6% in 2023. The projected 2024 increase in gross profit margin is principally due to the net effect of (i) the favorable impact of pricing actions, (ii) the favorable impacts of product mix, (iii) the favorable impact of anticipated Global Operating Effectiveness Program and CCI cost savings, and (iv) a low single-digit percentage impact of inflation in 2024 compared to 2023. In 2024, we expect an increase in operating income of 8% to 10%, which includes a 1% unfavorable impact from foreign currency rates, over the 2023 level. The projected 2024 change in operating income includes the effects of 22 the anticipated increase in our gross profit margin as well as SG&A cost savings from our CCI and GOE programs, which will be partially offset by our investments to drive volume growth, including brand marketing.  We expect our brand marketing investments in 2024 to increase in the high-single digits over the 2023 level.   We also expect approximately $15 million of special charges in 2024 that relate to previously announced organization and streamlining actions; in 2023, special charges were $61.2 million. Excluding special charges, we expect 2024’s adjusted operating income to increase by 3% to 5%, which includes a 1% unfavorable impact from foreign currency rates, or to increase by 4% to 6% on a constant currency basis. We estimate that our 2024 effective tax rate, including the net favorable impact of anticipated discrete tax items, will be 22% as compared to 21.8% in 2023. Excluding projected taxes associated with special charges, we estimate that our adjusted effective tax rate will be approximately 22% in 2024, or comparable to an adjusted effective tax rate of 22.0% in 2023. We also expect that our income from unconsolidated operations, including the performance of our largest joint venture, McCormick de Mexico, will increase by a mid-teens percentage rate over the 2023 level. Diluted earnings per share was $2.52 in 2023. Diluted earnings per share for 2024 is projected to range from $2.76 to $2.81. Excluding the per share impact of special charges of $61.2 million adjusted diluted earnings per share was $2.70 in 2023. Adjusted diluted earnings per share, excluding an estimated per share impact from special charges of $0.04, is projected to range from $2.80 to $2.85 in 2024, or an increase of  4% to 6% over adjusted diluted earnings per share of $2.70 in 2023. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS—2023 COMPARED TO 2022 Sales for 2023 increased by 4.9% from 2022 and by 5.5% on a constant currency basis (that is, excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange as more fully described under the caption, Non-GAAP Financial Measures). Pricing actions, taken in response to the inflationary cost environment, increased sales by 8.5% compared to the prior year period. Unfavorable volume and product mix decreased sales by 2.6% with declines in both our consumer and flavor solutions segments. Our decisions to exit our consumer operations in Russia and discontinue certain low margin businesses contributed approximately 0.9% to the unfavorable impact of volume and product mix. The divestiture of our Kitchen Basics business and the Giotti canning business unfavorably impacted sales by 0.4% as compared to the prior year. Sales were impacted by unfavorable foreign currency rates that decreased sales by 0.6% in 2023 as compared to the prior year and are excluded from our measure of sales growth of 5.5% on a constant currency basis. In 2023, gross profit increased by $228.0 million, or 10.0%, from 2022. Our gross profit margin for 2023 was 37.6%, an increase of 180 basis points from 35.8% in 2022. The increase was driven by the favorable impact of our pricing actions taken in response to increased costs, favorable product mix within our segments, and cost savings led by our CCI and GOE programs. These favorable impacts were partially offset by increased commodity costs, higher conversion costs, and unfavorable segment mix, all as compared to the 2022 period. 23 Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense increased by $121.2 million in 2023 as compared to 2022. That increase in SG&A expense was primarily a result of higher performance-based employee incentive expense, increased distribution costs, increased selling and marketing costs, and higher advertising and promotional spend which were partially offset by CCI-led and GOE cost savings and favorable investment results associated with non-qualified retirement plan assets, all as compared to 2022. SG&A as a percent of net sales for 2023 increased by 80 basis points from the prior year level, as the net impact of the previously mentioned factors was partially offset by the impact of the higher sales base. We regularly evaluate whether to implement changes to our organization structure to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and improve our competitiveness, and we expect to continue to evaluate such actions in the future. From time to time, those changes are of such significance in terms of both up-front costs and organizational/ structural impact that we obtain advance approval from our Management Committee and classify expenses related to those changes as special charges in our financial statements. During 2023, we recorded $61.2 million of special charges, consisting principally of (i) $42.8 million associated with the GOE program, (ii) $8.7 million associated with the transition of a manufacturing facility in EMEA, and (iii) streamlining actions of $8.8 million in the Americas region and $0.9 million in the EMEA region. During 2022, we recorded $51.6 million of special charges, consisting principally of (i) $23.3 million associated with the exit of our consumer business in Russia, (ii) $21.5 million associated with the transition of a manufacturing facility in EMEA, and (iii) streamlining actions of $8.0 million in the Americas region and $7.1 million in the EMEA region, and (iv) $5.6 million associated with a U.S. voluntary retirement program. As more fully described in note 3 of our notes of consolidated financial statements, these charges were partially offset by a $13.6 million gain on the sale of our Kohinoor brand that was associated with the rice product line in India that we exited in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021, as well as a reversal of $2.2 million of estimated costs associated with that rice product line exit upon settlement of a supply agreement related to that product line. Details with respect to the composition of special charges are included in the accompanying notes to our financial statements contained in Item 8 of this report. During 2022, we recorded integration expenses of $2.2 million related to our acquisition of FONA. Operating income increased by $99.4 million, or 11.5%, from $863.6 million in 2022 to $963.0 million in 2023. Special charges and transaction and integration expenses increased by $7.4 million in 2023, as compared to 2022, and negatively impacted operating income. Operating income as a percentage of net sales increased by 90 basis points in 2023, to 14.5% in 2023 from 13.6% in 2022 as a result of the factors previously described. Excluding the effect of special charges and transaction and integration expenses previously described, adjusted operating income was $1,024.2 million in 2023 as compared to $917.4 million in 2022, an increase of $106.8 million or 11.6% from the 2022 level. Adjusted operating income as a percentage of net sales increased by 100 basis points in 2023, to 15.4% in 2023 from 14.4% in 2022. Interest expense was $59.1 million higher in 2023 as compared to the prior year as the effects of the higher interest rate environment more than offset lower average borrowing levels. Other income, net for 2022 included a $49.6 million gain on the sale of our Kitchen Basics business and $18.7 million associated with the settlement of treasury lock arrangements both of which are more fully described in the notes to the accompanying condensed 24 consolidated financial statements. These were partially offset by higher interest income in 2023, also principally associated with the higher interest rate environment. The effective tax rate was 21.8% in 2023 as compared to 20.7% in 2022. The increase in our effective tax rate was principally attributable to the effects of the lower level of net discrete tax benefits in 2023 as compared to 2022.  Net discrete tax benefits were $9.6 million in 2023, a decrease of $18.0 million from $27.6 million in 2022. Discrete tax benefits in both the 2023 and 2022 periods included excess tax benefits associated with stock-based compensation ($0.8 million and $9.1 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively), the reversal of reserves for unrecognized tax benefits ($5.6 million and $6.9 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively) due to, in 2023 the net reversal of reserves for unrecognized tax benefits and related interest in non-U.S. jurisdictions and tax benefits related to a tax settlement, and in both years due to the expiration of the statutes of limitations, the release of valuation allowances due to a change in judgment about realizability of deferred tax assets ($3.2 million and $4.6 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively), and other discrete items. In 2023, other discrete tax benefits included $0.9 million of tax benefits resulting from an adjustment to a prior year tax accrual, and related deferred taxes, based on the final returns filed and $1.8 million of tax expense related to certain unremitted prior year earnings. In 2022, other discrete tax benefits included $3.9 million related to the revaluation of deferred taxes resulting from enacted legislation and $2.3 million of tax benefits related to the sale of an asset associated with a previously exited line of business. See note 13 of notes to our consolidated financial statements for a more detailed reconciliation of the U.S. federal tax rate with the effective tax rate. Income from unconsolidated operations, which is presented net of the elimination of earnings attributable to non-controlling interests, increased by $18.6 million in 2023 from the prior year. The increase for 2023 as compared to 2022 was primarily driven by higher earnings of McCormick de Mexico. We own 50% of most of our unconsolidated joint ventures, including our largest joint venture, McCormick de Mexico, that comprised 95% and 84% of the income of our unconsolidated operations in 2023 and 2022, respectively. We reported diluted earnings per share of $2.52 in 2023 and 2022. The table below outlines the major components of the change in diluted earnings per share from 2022 to 2023. Results of Operations—Segments We measure the performance of our business segments based on operating income, excluding special charges and transaction and integration expenses related to our acquisitions. See note 16 of notes to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on our segment measures as well as for a reconciliation by segment of operating income, excluding special charges and transaction and integration expenses related to our acquisitions. In 25 the following discussion, we refer to our previously described measure of segment profit as "Segment operating income." Consumer Segment Sales of our consumer segment in 2023 increased by 1.3% as compared to 2022 and increased by 2.1% on a constant currency basis. Pricing actions taken in our consumer business in all regions increased sales by 6.5% in 2023 as compared to 2022. Lower volume and unfavorable product mix decreased sales by 3.9%, driven primarily by the impact of price elasticity.  Volume and product mix includes the unfavorable impact of our decisions to exit our consumer business in Russia and discontinue certain low margin businesses of 1.3%. The divestiture of our Kitchen Basics business unfavorably impacted sales by 0.5% as compared to 2022. An unfavorable impact from foreign currency rates decreased sales by 0.8% compared to the prior year and is excluded from our measure of sales increase of 2.1% on a constant currency basis. In the Americas region, consumer sales increased 0.4% in 2023 as compared to 2022 and increased by 0.8% on a constant currency basis. Pricing actions, taken in response to inflationary cost environment, increased sales by 5.8% as compared to the prior year period.  Unfavorable volume and product mix decreased sales by 4.3% as compared to the corresponding period in 2022, including the unfavorable impact of price elasticity and the effects of the inflationary environment impacting consumer spending. This reduction included an approximately 1.2% impact of our decision to discontinue a low margin business. The sale of our Kitchen Basics business unfavorably impacted sales by 0.7% as compared to 2022. The unfavorable impact of foreign currency rates decreased sales by 0.4% in the year and is excluded from our measure of sales increase of 0.8% on a constant currency basis. In the EMEA region, consumer sales increased 7.1% in 2023 as compared to 2022 and increased by 6.2% on a constant currency basis. Pricing actions, taken in response to the inflationary cost environment, increased sales by 11.1% as compared to 2022. Sales were impacted by unfavorable volume and product mix that decreased sales by 4.9% from the prior year level, including a 2.0% impact associated with the exit of our consumer operations in Russia. The favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates increased sales by 0.9% compared to 2022 and is excluded from our measure of sales increase of 6.2% on a constant currency basis. In the APAC region, consumer sales decreased 1.1% in 2023 as compared to 2022 and increased by 5.1% on a constant currency basis. Pricing actions, taken in response to the inflationary cost environment, increased sales by 5.1% as compared to the prior year period. Volume and product mix were comparable to 2022. The unfavorable impact from foreign currency rates decreased sales by 6.2% compared to the year-ago period and is excluded from our measure of sales increase of 5.1% on a constant currency basis. Segment operating income for our consumer segment increased by $24.8 million, or 3.5%, in 2023 as compared to 2022. The increase in segment operating income was driven by the effects of an increase in gross profit primarily driven by the higher level of sales, favorable pricing actions in response to increased costs, favorable product mix within the segment, and CCI-led and GOE cost savings, which were partially offset by higher commodity costs and higher SG&A expenses, including higher performance-based employee incentive expenses, increased distribution costs, and increased advertising and promotional expenses, all as compared to the prior year. Segment operating margin for our consumer segment increased by 40 basis points in 2023 to 19.3%, driven by an increase in consumer gross profit margin as previously discussed which was partially offset by a higher level of SG&A as a percentage of sales, principally due to the factors previously described, all as compared to the 2022 level. On a constant currency basis, segment operating income for our consumer segment increased by 4.4% in 2023, as compared to 2022. 26 Flavor Solutions Segment Sales of our flavor solutions segment increased 10.1% in 2023 as compared to 2022 and increased by 10.3% on a constant currency basis. Pricing actions, taken in response to increased costs, across all regions increased sales by 11.4% in 2023 and was partially offset by 1.0% of unfavorable volume and product mix, both in comparison to the prior year levels. The divestiture of our Giotti canning business unfavorably impacted sales by 0.1% as compared to the prior year. An unfavorable impact from foreign currency rates decreased sales by 0.2% compared to the prior year and is excluded from our measure of sales growth of 10.3% on a constant currency basis. In the Americas region, flavor solutions sales increased by 10.7% during 2023 as compared to 2022 and increased by 9.6% on a constant currency basis. Pricing actions, taken in response to the inflationary cost environment, favorably impacted sales by 9.8% during 2023, as compared to the prior year. Unfavorable volume and product mix decreased flavor solutions sales in the Americas by 0.2% during 2023, including the effects of growth in sales to packaged food and beverage and nutrition and healthcare companies, as compared to the prior year.  A favorable impact from foreign currency rates increased sales by 1.1% compared to 2022 and is excluded from our measure of sales growth of 9.6% on a constant currency basis. In the EMEA region, flavor solutions sales in 2023 increased by 10.3% as compared to 2022 and increased by 12.2% on a constant currency basis. Pricing actions, taken in response to the inflationary cost environment, favorably impacted sales by 18.8% in 2023 as compared to the prior period level. Unfavorable volume and product mix decreased segment sales by 5.9% in 2023 as compared to 2022, including the effects of the inflationary environment impacting consumer spending at quick service restaurants and packaged food and beverage companies and approximately 1.3% impact of our decision to discontinue a low margin business. The divestiture of our Giotti canning business unfavorably impacted sales by 0.7% as compared to the prior year.  An unfavorable impact from foreign currency rates decreased sales by 1.9% compared to 2022 and is excluded from our measure of sales growth of 12.2% on a constant currency basis. In the APAC region, flavor solutions sales increased 5.6% in 2023 as compared to 2022 and increased by 11.0% on a constant currency basis. Pricing actions, taken in response to the inflationary cost environment, favorably impacted sales by 7.0% as compared to the prior year period. Favorable volume and product mix increased sales by 4.0%, driven by higher sales to quick service restaurant customers, partially impacted by the timing of customers' promotional activities. An unfavorable impact from foreign currency rates decreased sales by 5.4% compared to 2022 and is excluded from our measure of sales growth of 11.0% on a constant currency basis. Segment operating income for our flavor solutions segment increased by $82.0 million, or 39.7%, in 2023 as compared to 2022. The increase in segment operating income was driven by the effects of an increase in gross profit primarily due to the higher level of sales, favorable pricing in response to increased costs, favorable product mix within the segment, and CCI-led and GOE cost savings which more than offset increased commodity and conversion costs and the higher level of SG&A expenses, including higher performance-based employee incentive expense and increased distribution costs, all as compared to the prior year. Segment operating margin for our flavor solutions segment increased by 210 basis points in 2023 to 10.1%, driven by a higher segment gross margin, as previously described. On a constant currency basis, segment operating income for our flavor solutions segment increased by 38.5% in 2023, as compared to 2022. 27 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS—2022 COMPARED TO 2021 Sales for 2022 increased by 0.5% from 2021 and by 3.0% on a constant currency basis (that is, excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange as more fully described under the caption, Non-GAAP Financial Measures). Unfavorable volume and product mix decreased sales by 4.5% with growth in our flavor solutions segment being more than offset by a decline in our consumer segment. The impact of restrictive measures related to COVID-19 resurgences in China, the exit of our consumer operations in Russia, and the exit of our rice product line in India, contributed approximately 1.0% to that decline as compared to 2021. In addition, pricing actions, taken in response to the inflationary cost environment, added 7.7% to sales, as compared to the prior year. Acquisitions and a divestiture added to and decreased sales by 0.2% and 0.4%, respectively, both as compared to the prior year. Sales were impacted by unfavorable foreign currency rates that decreased sales by 2.5% in 2022 as compared to the prior year and are excluded from our measure of sales growth of 3.0% on a constant currency basis. In 2022, gross profit decreased by $220.1 million, or 8.8%, from 2021. Our gross profit margin for 2022 was 35.8%, a decrease of 370 basis points from 39.5% in 2021. The decline was driven by the margin dilutive impact of pricing actions taken in response to the inflationary cost environment of approximately 240 basis points, increased commodity, packaging materials and transportation costs, higher conversion costs and a less favorable product mix both within and between our segments, each as compared to 2021. These unfavorable impacts were partially offset by cost savings led by our CCI program. In addition, our gross profit for 2021 was burdened by (i) $6.3 million of transaction expense, representing the amortization of the fair value adjustment to the acquired inventories of Cholula and FONA upon our sale of those acquired inventories in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 and (ii) a non-cash special charge of $4.7 million associated with the exit of a low margin business in our APAC region. Excluding those transaction and integration expenses and special charges, adjusted gross profit margin declined 390 basis points to 35.8% in 2022 from 39.7% in 2021. Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense decreased by $47.0 million in 2022 as compared to 2021. That decrease in SG&A expense was primarily a result of lower performance-based employee incentive expenses and variable selling costs, both as compared to the prior year. This decrease was partially offset by (i) higher distribution costs; (ii) unfavorable investment results associated with non-qualified retirement plan assets; and (iii) higher investment associated with the implementation of our global enterprise resource planning (ERP) platform. SG&A as a percent of net sales for 2022 decreased by 90 basis points from the prior year level, due primarily to the net impact of the previously mentioned factors. We regularly evaluate whether to implement changes to our organization structure to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and improve our competitiveness, and we expect to continue to evaluate such actions in the 28 future. From time to time, those changes are of such significance in terms of both up-front costs and organizational/ structural impact that we obtain advance approval from our Management Committee and classify expenses related to those changes as special charges in our financial statements. During 2022, we recorded $51.6 million of special charges, consisting principally of (i) $23.3 million associated with the exit of our consumer business in Russia, (ii) $21.5 million associated with the transition of a manufacturing facility in EMEA, and (iii) streamlining actions of $8.0 million in the Americas region and $7.1 million in the EMEA region, and (iv) $5.6 million associated with a U.S. voluntary retirement program. As more fully described in note 3 of our notes of consolidated financial statements, these charges were partially offset by a $13.6 million gain on the sale of our Kohinoor brand that was associated with the rice product line in India that we exited in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021, as well as a reversal of $2.2 million of estimated costs associated with that rice product line exit upon settlement of a supply agreement related to that product line. During 2021, we recorded $51.1 million of special charges, consisting principally of (i) $19.5 million associated with our exit of our rice product line in India (ii) $6.2 million associated with the transition of a manufacturing facility in EMEA, (iii) streamlining actions of $10.3 million in the Americas region and $4.8 million in the EMEA region, and (iv) a non-cash asset impairment charge of $6.0 million associated with an administrative site that was sold in conjunction with our decision to employ a hybrid work environment. Details with respect to the composition of special charges are including the accompanying notes to our financial statements contained in Item 8 of this report. During 2022, we recorded $2.2 million of integration expenses related to our acquisition of FONA. During 2021, we recorded transaction and integration expenses of $35.3 million related to our acquisitions of Cholula and FONA. These costs consisted of (i) $6.3 million of amortization of the acquisition-date fair value adjustment of inventories that is included in Cost of goods sold, (ii) $13.8 million of other transaction expenses primarily related to outside advisory, service and consulting costs, and (iii) $15.2 million of integration expenses. Operating income decreased by $151.5 million, or 14.9%, from $1,015.1 million in 2021 to $863.6 million in 2022. Special charges and transaction and integration expenses decreased by $32.6 million in 2022, as compared to 2021, and positively impacted operating income. Operating income as a percentage of net sales declined by 250 basis points in 2022, to 13.6% in 2022 from 16.1% in 2021 as a result of the factors previously described. Excluding the effect of special charges and transaction and integration expenses previously described, adjusted operating income was $917.4 million in 2022 as compared to $1,101.5 million in 2021, a decrease of $184.1 million or 16.7% from the 2021 level. Adjusted operating income as a percentage of net sales declined by 300 basis points in 2022, to 14.4% in 2022 from 17.4% in 2021. Interest expense was $12.5 million higher in 2022 as compared to the prior year as an increase in interest rates during the latter part of 2022 was partially offset by a decrease in average total borrowings. Other income, net for 2022 increased by $81.0 million, including the impact of a $49.6 million gain on the sale of our Kitchen Basics business and $18.7 million associated with the settlement of treasury lock arrangements, both of which are more fully described in the notes to the accompanying financial statements. The remaining increase was principally driven by an increase in interest income, as compared to the prior year. 29 The effective tax rate was 20.7% in 2022 as compared to 21.5% in 2021. The decrease in our effective tax rate was principally attributable to the effects of the lower level of income before income taxes and the higher level of net discrete tax benefits in 2022 as compared to 2021. Net discrete tax benefits were $27.6 million in 2022, an increase of $1.0 million from $26.6 million in 2021. Discrete tax benefits in both the 2022 and 2021 periods included excess tax benefits associated with stock-based compensation ($9.1 million and $4.3 million in 2022 and 2021, respectively), the reversal of reserves for unrecognized tax benefits ($6.9 million and $22.5 million in 2022 and 2021, respectively) due to, in 2021, the partial release of certain reserves for an unrecognized tax benefit and related interest in a non-U.S. jurisdiction based on a change in our assessment of the technical merits of that position associated with the availability of new information, and in both years due to the expiration of the statutes of limitations, the release of valuation allowances due to a change in judgment about realizability of deferred tax assets ($4.6 million and $4.4 million in 2022 and 2021, respectively), tax benefits related to the revaluation of deferred taxes resulting from enacted legislation ($3.9 million and $4.0 million in 2022 and 2021, respectively), and other discrete items. In 2022, other discrete tax items included $2.3 million of tax benefits related to the sale of an asset associated with a previously exited line of business. In 2021, other discrete tax items included $10.4 million of deferred state tax expense directly related to our December 2020 acquisition of FONA. See note 13 of notes to our consolidated financial statements for a more detailed reconciliation of the U.S. federal tax rate with the effective tax rate. Income from unconsolidated operations, which is presented net of the elimination of earnings attributable to non-controlling interests, decreased $14.4 million in 2022 from the prior year. We own 50% of most of our unconsolidated joint ventures, including our largest joint venture, McCormick de Mexico, that comprised 84% and 62% of the income of our unconsolidated operations in 2022 and 2021, respectively. The decrease for 2022 as compared to 2021 was primarily driven by the after-tax gain of $13.4 million on the sale of an unconsolidated operation that occurred in 2021. We reported diluted earnings per share of $2.52 in 2022, compared to $2.80 in 2021. The table below outlines the major components of the change in diluted earnings per share from 2021 to 2022. The decrease in operating income in the table below includes the impact from unfavorable currency exchange rates in 2022. Results of Operations—Segments 30 Consumer Segment Sales of our consumer segment in 2022 decreased by 4.6% as compared to 2021 and decreased by 2.5% on a constant currency basis. The sales decrease was driven by lower sales of our consumer business in the Americas, EMEA and APAC regions. Lower volume and unfavorable product mix decreased sales by 9.3%. The impact of restrictive measures related to COVID-19 resurgences in China, the exit of our consumer operations in Russia, and the exit of our rice product line in India, contributed approximately 1.5% to that decline as compared to 2021. Pricing actions, taken in response to inflationary cost pressures, increased sales by 7.4% in 2022 as compared to the prior year level. The divestiture of our Kitchen Basics business unfavorably impacted sales by 0.6% as compared to 2021. An unfavorable impact from foreign currency rates decreased sales by 2.1% compared to the prior year and is excluded from our measure of sales decline of 2.5% on a constant currency basis. In the Americas region, consumer sales decreased 1.1% in 2022 as compared to 2021 and decreased by 0.9% on a constant currency basis. Unfavorable volume and product mix decreased sales by 8.6% as compared to the corresponding period in 2021, including the unfavorable impact of price elasticity. Pricing actions, taken in response to higher costs, increased sales by 8.6% as compared to the prior year. The sale of our Kitchen Basics business unfavorably impacted sales by 0.9% as compared to 2021. The unfavorable impact of foreign currency rates decreased sales by 0.2% in the year and is excluded from our measure of sales decline of 0.9% on a constant currency basis. In the EMEA region, consumer sales decreased 14.7% in 2022 as compared to 2021 and decreased by 5.1% on a constant currency basis. Unfavorable volume and product mix decreased sales by 10.5% as compared to the corresponding period of 2021. The decrease was driven by lower sales of our consumer business in France as compared to the prior year. The exit of our consumer operations in Russia also contributed approximately 2.1% to the region's decline in volume and mix. Pricing actions, taken in response to the inflationary cost environment, increased sales by 5.4% as compared to the 2021 period. The unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates decreased sales by 9.6% compared to 2021 and is excluded from our measure of sales decline of 5.1% on a constant currency basis. In the APAC region, consumer sales decreased 10.1% in 2022 as compared to 2021 and decreased by 8.1% on a constant currency basis. Lower volume and unfavorable product mix decreased sales by 11.5% as compared to the corresponding period in 2021. The impact of restrictive measures related to COVID-19 resurgences in China and the exit of our rice product line in India, contributed approximately 9.5% to that decline as compared to 2021. Pricing actions, taken in response to the inflationary cost environment, increased sales by 3.4% as compared to the prior year. The unfavorable impact from foreign currency rates decreased sales by 2.0% compared to the year-ago period and is excluded from our measure of sales decline of 8.1% on a constant currency basis. Segment operating income for our consumer segment decreased by $94.2 million, or 11.7%, in 2022 as compared to 2021. The decrease in segment operating income was driven by lower sales and increased commodity, transportation and conversion costs, partially offset by pricing actions in response to increased costs, CCI-led cost savings and lower performance-based employee incentive expenses, all as compared to the prior year. Segment operating margin for our consumer segment decreased by 150 basis points in 2022 to 18.9%, driven by a decrease in consumer gross profit margin, including the margin dilutive impact of pricing actions, the impact of the inflationary cost environment, and higher conversion costs, which was partially offset by the impact of CCI-led cost savings, all as compared to the 2021 level. On a constant currency basis, segment operating income for our consumer segment decreased by 10.9% in 2022, as compared to 2021. 31 Flavor Solutions Segment Sales of our flavor solutions segment increased 8.9% in 2022 as compared to 2021 and increased by 12.1% on a constant currency basis. Volume and product mix contributed 3.5% of the increase in addition to pricing actions which added 8.2% to sales for 2022, both in comparison to the prior year levels. The incremental impact of our acquisition of FONA added 0.4% to segment sales for 2022. An unfavorable impact from foreign currency rates decreased sales by 3.2% compared to the prior year and is excluded from our measure of sales growth of 12.1% on a constant currency basis. In the Americas region, flavor solutions sales increased by 11.4% during 2022 as compared to 2021 and increased by 11.7% on a constant currency basis. Favorable volume and product mix increased flavor solutions sales in the Americas by 2.2% during 2022, as growth in sales to packaged food and beverage companies was partially offset by lower sales to quick service restaurants, both as compared to the year ago period. Pricing actions, taken in response to the inflationary cost environment, favorably impacted sales by 8.9% during 2022 as compared to the prior year. The incremental impact of our acquisition of FONA added 0.6% to segment sales for 2022. An unfavorable impact from foreign currency rates decreased sales by 0.3% compared to 2021 and is excluded from our measure of sales growth of 11.7% on a constant currency basis. In the EMEA region, flavor solutions sales in 2022 increased by 5.5% as compared to 2021 and increased by 17.2% on a constant currency basis. Favorable volume and product mix increased segment sales by 9.5% in 2022 as compared to 2021. The increase was driven by higher sales to quick service restaurants, branded foodservice and package food and beverage company customers. Pricing actions, taken in response to the inflationary cost environment, favorably impacted sales by 7.7% in 2022 as compared to the prior period level. An unfavorable impact from foreign currency rates decreased sales by 11.7% compared to 2021 and is excluded from our measure of sales growth of 17.2% on a constant currency basis. In the APAC region, flavor solutions sales decreased 0.2% in 2022 as compared to 2021 and increased by 5.2% on a constant currency basis. Favorable volume and product mix increased sales by 0.3%, driven by higher sales to quick service restaurant customers, partially impacted by the timing of customers' promotional activities. Pricing actions, taken in response to the inflationary cost environment, favorably impacted sales by 4.9% as compared to the prior year. An unfavorable impact from foreign currency rates decreased sales by 5.4% compared to 2021 and is excluded from our measure of sales growth of 5.2% on a constant currency basis. Segment operating income for our flavor solutions segment decreased by $89.9 million, or 30.3%, in 2022 as compared to 2021. The decrease in segment operating income was driven by increased commodity, transportation and conversion costs, as well as costs related to supply chain investments, which were partially offset by a higher level of sales, including pricing actions in response to the inflationary cost environment, and CCI-led cost savings, all as compared to the prior year. Segment operating margin for our flavor solutions segment decreased by 450 basis points in 2022 to 8.0% driven by a lower segment gross margin, including the margin dilutive impact of pricing actions, the impact of the inflationary cost environment, and higher conversion costs, including the costs related to our supply chain investments, partially offset by CCI-led cost savings and a decrease in SG&A as percentage of sales associated with the favorable impact of fixed and semi-fixed expenses over a higher sales base, all as compared to the 2021 level. On a constant currency basis, segment operating income for our flavor solutions segment decreased by 27.9% in 2022, as compared to 2021. 32 NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES The following tables include financial measures of adjusted gross profit, adjusted gross profit margin, adjusted operating income, adjusted operating income margin, adjusted income tax expense, adjusted income tax rate, adjusted net income and adjusted diluted earnings per share. These represent non-GAAP financial measures which are prepared as a complement to our financial results prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. These financial measures exclude the impact, as applicable, of the following: • Special charges – Special charges consist of expenses and income associated with certain actions undertaken by us to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and improve our competitiveness and are of such significance in terms of both up-front costs and organizational/structural impact to require advance approval by our Management Committee. Upon presentation of any such proposed action (generally including details with respect to estimated costs, which typically consist principally of employee severance and related benefits, together with ancillary costs associated with the action that may include a non-cash component, such as an asset impairment, or a component which relates to inventory adjustments that are included in cost of goods sold; impacted employees or operations; expected timing; and expected savings) to the Management Committee and the Committee’s advance approval, expenses associated with the approved action are classified as special charges upon recognition and monitored on an ongoing basis through completion. Special charges for the year ended November 30, 2022 include a $13.6 million gain associated with the sale of the Kohinoor brand name. We exited our Kohinoor rice product line in India in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2021. Special charges are more fully described in note 3 of notes to our accompanying consolidated financial statements. • Transaction and integration expenses associated with the Cholula and FONA acquisitions – We exclude certain costs associated with our acquisitions of Cholula and FONA in November and December 2020, respectively, and their subsequent integration into the Company. Such costs, which we refer to as “Transaction and integration expenses,” include transaction costs associated with each acquisition, as well as integration costs following the respective acquisition, including the impact of the acquisition date fair value adjustment for inventories, together with the impact of discrete tax items, if any, directly related to each acquisition. • Income from sale of unconsolidated operations – We exclude the gain realized upon our sale of an unconsolidated operation in March 2021. As more fully described in note 5 of the notes to the accompanying financial statements, the sale of our 26% interest in Eastern Condiments resulted in a gain of $13.4 million, net of tax of $5.7 million. The gain is included in Income from unconsolidated operations in our consolidated income statement for the year ended November 30, 2021. • Gain on sale of Kitchen Basics – We exclude the gain realized upon our sale of the Kitchen Basics business in August 2022. As more fully described in note 17 of the notes to the accompanying financial statements, the pre-tax gain associated with the sale was $49.6 million and is included in Other income, net in our consolidated income statement for the year ended November 30, 2022. Details with respect to the composition of transaction and integration expenses, special charges, income from the sale of unconsolidated operations, and gain on sale of Kitchen Basics for the years and in the amounts set forth below are included in notes 2, 3, and 5, of notes to our consolidated financial statements. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures are important. The exclusion of the items noted above provides additional information that enables enhanced comparisons to prior periods and, accordingly, facilitates the development of future projections and earnings growth prospects. This information is also used by management to measure the profitability of our ongoing operations and analyze our business performance and trends. These non-GAAP financial measures may be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but they should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP results.  In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies because other companies may not calculate them in the same manner that we do. We intend to continue to provide these non-GAAP financial measures as part of our future earnings discussions and, therefore, the inclusion of these non-GAAP financial measures will provide consistency in our financial reporting. 33 A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial results is provided below: 34 Because we are a multi-national company, we are subject to variability of our reported U.S. dollar results due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Those changes have been volatile over the past several years. The exclusion of the effects of foreign currency exchange, or what we refer to as amounts expressed “on a constant currency basis,” is a non-GAAP measure. We believe that this non-GAAP measure provides additional information that enables enhanced comparison to prior periods excluding the translation effects of changes in rates of foreign currency exchange and provides additional insight into the underlying performance of our operations located outside of the U.S. It should be noted that our presentation herein of amounts and percentage changes on a constant currency basis does not exclude the impact of foreign currency transaction gains and losses (that is, the impact of transactions denominated in other than the local currency of any of our subsidiaries in their local currency reported results). Percentage changes in sales and adjusted operating income expressed on a constant currency basis are presented excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange. To present this information for historical periods, current year results for entities reporting in currencies other than the U.S. dollar are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rates in effect during the prior fiscal year, rather than at the actual average exchange rates in effect during the current fiscal year. As a result, the foreign currency impact is equal to the current year results in local currencies multiplied by the change in the average foreign currency exchange rate between the current year and the prior fiscal year. The tables set forth below present our growth in net sales and adjusted operating income on a constant currency basis as follows: (1) to present our growth in net sales and adjusted operating income for 2023 on a constant currency basis, net sales and adjusted operating income for 2023 for entities reporting in currencies other than the U.S. dollar have been translated using the average foreign exchange rates in effect for 2022 and compared to the reported results for 2022; and (2) to present our growth in net sales and adjusted operating income for 2022 on a constant currency basis, net sales and operating income for 2022 for entities reporting in currencies other than the U.S. dollar have been translated using the average foreign exchange rates in effect for 2021 and compared to the reported results for 2021. 35 To present the percentage change in projected 2024 net sales, adjusted operating income and adjusted earnings per share — diluted on a constant currency basis, 2024 projected local currency net sales, adjusted operating income, and adjusted net income for entities reporting in currencies other than the U.S. dollar are translated into U.S. dollars at currently prevailing exchange rates and are compared to those 2024 local currency projected results, translated into U.S. dollars at the average actual exchange rates in effect during the corresponding months in fiscal year 2023 to determine what the 2024 consolidated U.S. dollar net sales, adjusted operating income and adjusted earnings per share — diluted would have been if the relevant currency exchange rates had not changed from those of the comparable 2023 periods. 36 LIQUIDITY AND FINANCIAL CONDITION The primary objective of our financing strategy is to maintain a prudent capital structure that provides us flexibility to pursue our growth objectives. We use a combination of equity and short- and long-term debt. We use short-term debt, comprised primarily of commercial paper, principally to finance ongoing operations, including our requirements for working capital (accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and other current assets, and inventories, less accounts payable, accrued payroll, and other accrued liabilities). We are committed to maintaining investment grade credit ratings. Our cash flows from operations enable us to fund operating projects and investments that are designed to meet our growth objectives, service our debt, fund or increase our quarterly dividends, fund capital projects and other investments, and make share repurchases when appropriate. Due to the cyclical nature of a portion of our business, our cash flow from operations has historically been the strongest during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. Due to the timing of the interest payments on our debt, interest payments are higher in the first and third quarter of our fiscal year. We believe that our sources of liquidity, which include existing cash balances, cash flows from operations, existing credit facilities, our commercial paper program, and access to capital markets, will provide sufficient liquidity to meet our debt obligations, including any repayment of debt or refinancing of debt, working capital needs, planned capital expenditures, and payment of anticipated quarterly dividends for at least the next twelve months. In the cash flow statement, the changes in operating assets and liabilities are presented excluding the translation effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as these do not reflect actual cash flows. In addition, in the cash flow statement, the changes in operating assets and liabilities are presented excluding the effect of acquired or disposed operating assets and liabilities, as the cash flows associated with acquisition or dispositions of businesses is presented as an investing activity. Accordingly, the amounts in the cash flow statement do not agree with changes in the operating assets and liabilities that are presented in the balance sheet. The reported values of our assets and liabilities held in our non-U.S. subsidiaries and affiliates can be significantly affected by fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between periods. At November 30, 2023, the exchange rates for the Euro, British pound sterling, Mexican peso, and Polish zloty were higher than the U.S. dollar than at November 30, 2022. At November 30, 2023, the exchange rates for the Canadian dollar, Chinese renminbi, and Australian dollar were lower than the U.S. dollar than at November 30, 2022. 37 Operating Cash Flow – Operating cash flow was $1,237.3 million in 2023, $651.5 million in 2022, and $828.3 million in 2021. Net income as well as our working capital management, as more fully described below, impacted operating cash flow. In 2023, the increase was primarily driven by an improvement in cash provided by working capital, which was driven by the lower inventory levels and the lower amount of employee incentive payments associated with the prior year as well as an increase in dividends received from unconsolidated affiliates. This was partially offset by an increased use of cash associated with accounts payable which partially resulted from our lower level of inventory. In 2022, the decrease in operating cash flow was primarily driven by lower net income, including the effect of net income associated with the gain on sale of our Kitchen Basics business and an intangible asset that are reflected as investing cash flows as well as the higher amount of employee incentive payments associated with the prior year. In 2021, the reduction in operating cash flow was the result of increased inventory levels to protect against supply disruption, employee incentive payments, and the payment of transaction and integration costs related to our acquisitions. Our working capital management – principally related to inventory, trade accounts receivable, and accounts payable – impacts our operating cash flow. The change in inventory was a significant source of cash from operations in 2023 and a significant use of cash from operations in 2022 and 2021. The change in trade accounts receivable was a moderate source of cash in 2023 and a use of cash in 2022 and 2021. The change in accounts payable was a use of cash in 2023, a significant source of cash in 2022, and a more moderate source of cash in 2021. In addition to operating cash flow, we also use cash conversion cycle (CCC) to measure our working capital management. This metric is different than operating cash flow in that it uses average balances instead of specific point in time measures. CCC is a calculation of the number of days, on average, that it takes us to convert a cash outlay for resources, such as raw materials, to a cash inflow from collection of accounts receivable. Our goal is to lower our CCC over time. We calculate CCC as follows: Days sales outstanding (average trade accounts receivable divided by average daily net sales) plus days in inventory (average inventory divided by average daily cost of goods sold) less days payable outstanding (average trade accounts payable divided by average daily cost of goods sold plus the average daily change in inventory). The following table outlines our cash conversion cycle (in days) over the last three years: The decrease in CCC in 2023 from 2022 was due primarily to a reduction in our days in inventory as a result of reducing our inventory based on demand planning and elimination of excess safety stock utilized to remedy service issues associated with the COVID-19 pandemic. The increase in CCC in 2022 from 2021 was due primarily to an increase in our days in inventory as a result of cost inflation, strategic purchases to avoid shipping challenges, and lower than forecasted sales. During both periods, the increase in days in inventory was partially offset by an increase in our days payable outstanding. As more fully described in note 1 of notes to our consolidated financial statements, we participate in a Supply Chain Financing program (SCF) with several global financial institutions (SCF Banks). Under the SCF, qualifying suppliers may elect to sell their receivables from us to an SCF Bank, enabling participating suppliers to negotiate their receivables sales arrangements directly with the respective SCF Bank. We are not party to those agreements and have no economic interest in a supplier’s decision to sell a receivable. All outstanding amounts related to suppliers participating in the SCF are recorded within the line entitled Trade accounts payable in our condensed consolidated balance sheets, and the associated payments are included in operating activities within our consolidated statements of cash flows. As of November 30, 2023 and 2022, the amounts due to suppliers participating in the SCF and included in trade accounts payable were approximately $300.5 million and $347.0 million, respectively. The terms of our payment obligations are not impacted by a supplier's participation in the SCF. Our payment terms with our suppliers for similar materials within individual markets are consistent between those suppliers that elect to participate in the SCF and those suppliers that do not participate. Accordingly, our average days outstanding are not significantly impacted by the portion of the suppliers that are included in the SCF. Future changes in our suppliers’ financing policies or economic developments, such as changes in interest rates, general market liquidity or our creditworthiness relative to participating suppliers could impact those suppliers’ participation in the SCF and/or our ability to negotiate extended payment terms with our suppliers. However, any such impacts are difficult to predict. 38 Investing Cash Flow – Net cash used in investing activities was $260.5 million in 2023, $146.4 million in 2022, and $908.6 million in 2021. Our primary investing cash flows include the usage of cash associated with acquisition of businesses and capital expenditures as well as cash provided by sale of businesses, unconsolidated operations, or other assets. Cash usage related to our acquisition of businesses was $706.4 million in 2021. Capital expenditures, including expenditures for capitalized software, were $263.9 million in 2023, $262.0 million in 2022, and $278.0 million in 2021. We expect 2024 capital expenditures to approximate $290 million. In 2022, we received $95.2 million net cash proceeds from the sale of our Kitchen Basics business and $13.6 million net cash proceeds received on the sale of the Kohinoor brand name which are more fully discussed in notes 2 and 3, respectively, of notes to our consolidated financial statements. Our primary investing cash inflow in 2021 was the $65.4 million of proceeds received from the sale of an unconsolidated operation, as more fully discussed in note 5 of notes to our consolidated financial statements. Financing Cash Flow – Net cash associated with financing activities was a use of cash of $1,184.2 million and $487.2 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively, and a source of cash of $22.0 million in 2021. The variability between years is principally a result of changes in our net borrowings, share repurchase activity and dividends, all as described below. The following table outlines our net borrowing activities: In 2023, we repaid $268.1 million of long-term debt, including $250.0 million, 3.50% notes that matured September 1, 2023. We also issued $500.0 million of 4.95% notes due 2033, with net cash proceeds received of $496.4 million. In 2022, we repaid $772.0 million of long-term debt, including the $750 million, 2.70% notes that matured on August 15, 2022. In 2021, we borrowed $1,001.5 million under long-term borrowing arrangements, including net proceeds of $495.7 million of 0.9% notes due February 2026 and net proceeds of $492.8 million of 1.85% notes due February 2031. The net proceeds from these issuances were used to pay down short-term borrowings, including a portion of the $1,443.0 million of commercial paper issued to fund our acquisitions of Cholula and FONA, and for general corporate purposes. We also repaid $257.1 million of long-term debt, including the $250 million, 3.90% notes that matured in July 2021. The following table outlines the activity in our share repurchase programs: As of November 30, 2023, $501 million remained of a $600 million share repurchase program that was authorized by our Board of Directors in November 2019. The timing and amount of any shares repurchased is determined by our management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors. Our share repurchase activity in 2023, 2022, and 2021 has principally been executed in order to mitigate the effect of shares issued upon the exercise of stock options. During 2023, 2022 and 2021, we received proceeds of $16.6 million, $41.4 million and $13.5 million, respectively, from exercised stock options. We repurchased $10.8 million, $19.4 million and $15.4 million of common stock during 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively, in conjunction with employee tax withholding requirements associated with our stock compensation plans. 39 Our dividend history over the past three years is as follows: In November 2023, the Board of Directors approved a 7.7% increase in the quarterly dividend from $0.39 to $0.42 per share. Most of our cash is in our subsidiaries outside of the U.S. We manage our worldwide cash requirements by considering available funds among the many subsidiaries through which we conduct our business and the cost effectiveness with which those funds can be accessed. Those balances are generally available without legal restrictions to fund ordinary business operations, capital projects and future acquisitions. As of November 30, 2023, we have $1.5 billion of earnings from our non-U.S. subsidiaries and joint ventures that are considered indefinitely reinvested.  We have not provided any deferred taxes with respect to items such as foreign withholding taxes, other income taxes, or foreign exchange gains or losses. It is not practicable for us to determine the amount of unrecognized tax expense on these reinvested international earnings. At November 30, 2023, we temporarily used $531.4 million of cash from our non-U.S. subsidiaries to pay down short-term debt in the U.S. During the year, our short-term borrowings vary, but are lower at the end of a year or quarter. The average short-term borrowings outstanding for the years ended November 30, 2023 and 2022 were $1,121.9 million and $1,117.0 million, respectively. Those average short-term borrowings outstanding for the year ended November 30, 2023 included average commercial paper borrowings of $1,098.4 million. The total average debt outstanding for the years ended November 30, 2023 and 2022 was $5,197.8 million and $5,422.0 million, respectively. Credit and Capital Markets – The following summarizes the more significant impacts of credit and capital markets on our business: CREDIT FACILITIES – Cash flows from operating activities are our primary source of liquidity for funding growth, share repurchases, dividends and capital expenditures. We also rely on our revolving credit facilities, or borrowings backed by these facilities, to fund working capital needs and other general corporate requirements. Our committed revolving credit facilities include a five-year $1.5 billion revolving credit facility, which will expire in June 2026 and a 364-day $500 million revolving credit facility, which was entered into in June 2023 and will expire in June 2024. The current pricing for the five-year credit facility, on a fully drawn basis, is Term SOFR plus 1.25%. The pricing of that credit facility is based on a credit rating grid that contains a fully drawn maximum pricing of the credit facility equal to Term SOFR plus 1.75%. The current pricing for the 364-day credit facility, on a fully drawn basis, is Term SOFR plus 1.23%. The pricing of that credit facility is based on a credit rating grid that contains a fully drawn maximum pricing of the credit facility equal to Term SOFR plus 1.60%. 40 The provisions of each revolving credit facility restrict subsidiary indebtedness and require us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio. We do not expect that this covenant would limit our access to either revolving credit facilities for the foreseeable future. The terms of those revolving credit facilities are more fully described in note 6 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. We generally use our revolving credit facilities to support our issuance of commercial paper. If the commercial paper market is not available or viable, we could borrow directly under our revolving credit facilities. These facilities are made available by a syndicate of banks, with various commitments per bank. If any of the banks in these syndicates are unable to perform on their commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could reduce our ability to grow through funding of seasonal working capital. We engage in regular communication with all banks participating in our credit facilities. During these communications, none of the banks have indicated that they may be unable to perform on their commitments. In addition, we periodically review our banking and financing relationships, considering the stability of the institutions and other aspects of the relationships. Based on these communications and our monitoring activities, we believe our banks will perform on their commitments. In addition to our committed revolving credit facilities, we have uncommitted facilities of $284.8 million as of November 30, 2023 that can be withdrawn based upon the lenders' discretion. See note 6 of notes to our consolidated financial statements for more details on our financing arrangements. We will continue to have cash requirements to support seasonal working capital needs and capital expenditures, to pay interest, to service debt, and to fund acquisitions. As part of our ongoing operations, we enter into contractual arrangements that obligate us to make future cash payments. Our primary obligations include principal and interest payments on our outstanding short-term borrowings and long-term debt.  In the next year, our most significant debt service obligation is the maturity of our $700.0 million, 3.15% notes due in August 2024. Detail on these contractual obligations follows: MATERIAL CASH REQUIREMENTS The following table reflects a summary of our future material cash requirements as of November 30, 2023: (a) Interest payments include expected interest payments on long-term debt. Our short-term borrowings, principally consisting of commercial paper, have short-term maturities. See note 6 of notes to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. Our other cash requirements at year end include raw material purchases, lease payments, income taxes, and pension and postretirement benefits. We acquire various raw materials to satisfy our obligations to our customers, and these outstanding purchase obligations can fluctuate throughout the year based on our response to varying raw material cycles; however, these commitments generally do not extend past one year.  In addition, we also have a series of commercial commitments, largely consisting of standby letters of credit. Our standby letters of credit, leases, and pension and other post-retirement obligations are more fully described in notes 6, 7 and 11, respectively, of notes to our consolidated financial statements. These obligations impact our liquidity and capital resource needs.  To meet those cash requirements, we intend to use our existing cash, cash equivalents and internally generated funds, to borrow under our existing credit facilities or under other short-term borrowing facilities, and depending on market conditions and upon the significance of the cost of a particular debt maturity or acquisition to our then-available sources of funds, to obtain additional short- and long-term financing. We believe that cash provided from these sources will be adequate to meet our future cash requirements. 41 PENSION ASSETS AND OTHER INVESTMENTS – We hold investments in equity and debt securities in both our qualified defined benefit pension plans and through a rabbi trust for our nonqualified defined benefit pension plan. Cash contributions to pension plans, including unfunded plans, were $9.2 million in 2023, $11.4 million in 2022, and $15.0 million in 2021. It is expected that the 2024 total pension plan contributions will be approximately $12 million. Future increases or decreases in pension liabilities and required cash contributions are highly dependent upon changes in interest rates and the actual return on plan assets. We base our investment of plan assets, in part, on the duration of each plan’s liabilities. Across all of our qualified defined benefit pension plans, approximately 27% of assets are invested in equities, 62% in fixed income investments and 11% in other investments. Assets associated with our nonqualified defined benefit pension plan are primarily invested in corporate-owned life insurance, the value of which approximates an investment mix of 63% in equities and 37% in fixed income investments. See note 11 of notes to our consolidated financial statements, which provides details on our pension funding. CUSTOMERS AND COUNTERPARTIES – See the subsequent section of this discussion under the heading "Market Risk Sensitivity–Credit Risk." PERFORMANCE GRAPH — SHAREHOLDER RETURN The following line graph compares the yearly change in McCormick’s cumulative total shareholder return (stock price appreciation plus reinvestment of dividends) on McCormick’s Non-Voting Common Stock with (1) the cumulative total return of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Price Index, assuming reinvestment of dividends, and (2) the cumulative total return of the Standard & Poor’s Packaged Foods & Meats Index, assuming reinvestment of dividends. 42 MARKET RISK SENSITIVITY We utilize derivative financial instruments to enhance our ability to manage risk, including foreign exchange and interest rate exposures, which exist as part of our ongoing business operations. We do not enter into contracts for trading purposes, nor are we a party to any leveraged derivative instrument. The use of derivative financial instruments is monitored through regular communication with senior management and the utilization of written guidelines. The information presented below should be read in conjunction with notes 6 and 8 of notes to our consolidated financial statements. Foreign Exchange Risk – We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency in the following main areas: cash flows related to raw material purchases; the translation of foreign currency earnings to U.S. dollars; the effects of foreign currency on loans between subsidiaries and unconsolidated affiliates and on cash flows related to repatriation of earnings of unconsolidated affiliates. Primary exposures include the U.S. dollar versus the Euro, British pound sterling, Chinese renminbi, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, Polish zloty, Singapore dollar, Swiss franc, and Mexican peso, as well as the Euro versus the British pound sterling, Australian dollar, and Polish zloty, and finally the Canadian dollar versus British pound sterling. We routinely enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to manage certain of these foreign currency risks. During 2023, the foreign currency translation component in other comprehensive income was principally related to the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on our net investments in our subsidiaries with a functional currency of the British pound sterling, Euro, Polish zloty, Chinese renminbi, Australian dollar, Singapore dollar, and Mexican peso. We also utilize cross currency interest rate swap contracts, which are designated as net investment hedges, to manage the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on our net investments in subsidiaries with a functional currency of the British pound sterling and Euro. Gains and losses on these instruments are included in foreign currency translation adjustments in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). The following table summarizes the foreign currency exchange contracts held at November 30, 2023. All contracts are valued in U.S. dollars using year-end 2023 exchange rates and have been designated as hedges of foreign currency transactional exposures, firm commitments or anticipated transactions. FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE CONTRACTS AT NOVEMBER 30, 2023 We had a number of smaller contracts at November 30, 2023 with an aggregate notional value of $24.0 million to purchase or sell other currencies. The aggregate fair value of these contracts was $0.6 million at November 30, 2023. At November 30, 2022, we had foreign currency exchange contracts for the Euro, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, Polish zloty, Swiss franc and other currencies, with a notional value of $560.5 million. The aggregate fair value of these contracts was a gain of $9.5 million at November 30, 2022. We also utilized cross currency interest rate swap contracts that are considered net investment hedges. 43 As of November 30, 2023 and 2022, we had cross currency interest rate swap contracts of (i) $250 million notional value to receive $250 million at USD Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) plus 0.907% and pay £194.1 million at three-month GBP SONIA plus 0.859% and (ii) £194.1 million notional value to receive £194.1 million at three-month GBP SONIA plus 0.859% and pay €221.8 million at three-month Euro EURIBOR plus 0.808%. These cross-currency interest rate swap contracts expire in August 2027. In conjunction with the phase out of the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), in 2023 we amended the terms of this cross currency swap such that, effective February 15, 2023, we now pay and receive at USD SOFR plus 0.907% (previously three-month U.S. LIBOR plus 0.685%). As of November 30, 2023 and 2022, we also had cross currency interest rate swap contracts of (i) $250 million notional value to receive $250 million at USD SOFR plus 0.684% and pay £184.1 million at GBP SONIA plus 0.574% and (ii) £184.1 million notional value to receive £184.1 million at GBP SONIA plus 0.574% and pay €219.2 million at Euro ESTR plus 0.667%. These contracts expire in April 2030. Interest Rate Risk – Our policy is to manage interest rate risk by entering into both fixed and variable rate debt arrangements. We are exposed to interest rate volatility, with primary exposures related to movements in U.S. Treasury rates, Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), and commercial paper rates. Certain of our variable rate debt arrangements previously used LIBOR. The phase out of LIBOR reference rates occurred at different dates and began on January 1, 2022. As more fully disclosed in notes 1 and 8 of notes to our consolidated financial statements, during 2023 and 2022, we amended existing arrangements and entered into new arrangements that no longer use LIBOR as a reference rate. There was no material impact to our consolidated financial statements as a result of the LIBOR phase-out. We also use interest rate swaps to minimize financing costs and to achieve a desired mix of fixed and variable rate debt. The table that follows provides principal cash flows and related interest rates, excluding the effect of interest rate swaps and the amortization of any discounts or fees, by fiscal year of maturity at November 30, 2023. For foreign currency-denominated debt, the information is presented in U.S. dollar equivalents. Variable interest rates are based on the weighted-average rates of the portfolio at the end of the year presented. YEARS OF MATURITY AT NOVEMBER 30, 2023 The table above displays the debt, including finance leases, by the terms of the original debt instrument without consideration of fair value, interest rate swaps and any loan discounts or origination fees. Interest rate swaps have the following effects: • We issued $250 million of 3.25% notes due in 2025 in November 2015. Forward treasury lock agreements settled upon issuance of these notes effectively set the interest rate on these notes at a weighted-average fixed rate of 3.45%. Separately, the fixed interest rate on $100 million of the 3.25% notes due in December 2025 was effectively converted to a variable rate by interest rate swaps through the notes maturity in 2025. In 2023, we amended our $100 million interest rate swaps such that, effective February 15, 2023, we now pay and receive at USD SOFR plus 1.487% (previously U.S. three-month LIBOR plus 1.22%). The effective variable rate was 6.94% as of November 30, 2023. • We issued $750 million of 3.40% notes due August 15, 2027 in August 2017. Forward treasury lock agreements settled upon issuance of these notes effectively set the interest rate on these $750 million notes at a weighted-average fixed rate of 3.44%. Separately, the fixed interest rate on $250 million of the 3.40% notes due in August 2027 was effectively converted to a variable rate by interest rate swaps through the notes maturity in 2027. In 2023, we amended our $250 million interest rate swaps such that, effective February 15, 2023, we now pay and receive at USD SOFR plus 0.907% (previously U.S. three-month LIBOR plus 0.685%). The effective variable rate was 6.32% as of November 30, 2023. • We issued $500 million of 2.50% notes due April 15, 2030. Forward treasury lock agreements settled upon issuance of these notes effectively set the interest rate on these $500 million notes at a weighted-average fixed rate of 2.62%. Separately, the fixed interest rate on $250 million of the 2.50% notes due in April 2030 was effectively converted to a variable rate by interest rate swaps through the notes maturity in 2030. Net interest payments are based on USD SOFR plus 0.684% with an effective variable rate of 6.13% as of November 30, 2023. • We issued $500 million of 4.95% notes due April 15, 2033. Forward treasury lock agreements settled upon issuance of these notes effectively set the interest rate on these $500 million notes at a weighted-average fixed rate of 5.00%. Commodity Risk – We purchase certain raw materials which are subject to price volatility caused by weather, market conditions, growing and harvesting conditions, governmental actions and other factors beyond our control. In 2023, our most significant raw materials were dairy products, pepper, onion, garlic, capsicums (red peppers and 44 paprika), tomato products, salts, and wheat products. While future movements of raw material costs are uncertain, we respond to this volatility in a number of ways, including strategic raw material purchases, purchases of raw material for future delivery and customer price adjustments. We generally have not used derivatives to manage the volatility related to this risk. Credit Risk – The customers of our consumer segment are predominantly food retailers and food wholesalers. Consolidations in these industries have created larger customers. In addition, competition has increased with the growth in alternative channels including mass merchandisers, dollar stores, warehouse clubs, discount chains and e-commerce. This has caused some customers to be less profitable and increased our exposure to credit risk. Some of our customers and counterparties are highly leveraged. We continue to closely monitor the credit worthiness of our customers and counterparties. We feel that the allowance for doubtful accounts properly recognizes trade receivables at realizable value. We consider nonperformance credit risk for other financial instruments to be insignificant. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS New accounting pronouncements are issued periodically that affect our current and future operations. See note 1 of notes to our consolidated financial statements for further details of these impacts. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS In preparing the financial statements, we are required to make estimates and assumptions that have an impact on the assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses reported. These estimates can also affect supplemental information   disclosed by us, including information about contingencies, risk and financial condition. We believe, given current facts and circumstances, our estimates and assumptions are reasonable, adhere to U.S. GAAP and are consistently applied. Inherent in the nature of an estimate or assumption is the fact that actual results may differ from estimates, and estimates may vary as new facts and circumstances arise. In preparing the financial statements, we make routine estimates and judgments in determining the net realizable value of accounts receivable, inventory, fixed assets and prepaid allowances. Our most critical accounting estimates and assumptions, which are those that have or are reasonably likely to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations, are in the following areas: Customer Contracts In several of our major geographic markets, the consumer segment sells our products by entering into annual or multi-year customer arrangements. Known or expected pricing or revenue adjustments, such as trade discounts, rebates or returns, are estimated at the time of sale. Where applicable, future reimbursements are estimated based on current expectations regarding what was earned through these programs as of the balance sheet date.  Key sales terms, such as pricing and quantities ordered, are established on a frequent basis such that most customer arrangements and related incentives have a one-year or shorter duration. Estimates that affect revenue, such as trade incentives and product returns, are monitored and adjusted each period until the incentives or product returns are realized. Certain of our customer arrangements are annual arrangements such that the degree of estimates that affects revenue reduces as a year progresses.  We do not believe that there will be significant changes to our estimates of customer consideration when any uncertainties are resolved with customers. Goodwill Impairment Our reporting units are the same as our operating segments. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, as more fully described in note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. We estimate the fair value of a reporting unit by using a discounted cash flow model. Our discounted cash flow model calculates fair value by present valuing future expected cash flows of our reporting units using a market-based discount rate. We then compare this fair value to the carrying amount of the reporting unit, including intangible assets and goodwill. An impairment charge would be recognized to the extent that the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds the estimated fair value of the reporting unit. The quantitative goodwill impairment test requires an entity to compare the fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying amount. As of November 30, 2023, we had $5,260.1 million of goodwill recorded in our balance sheet ($3,609.6 million in the consumer segment and $1,650.5 million in the flavor solutions segment). Our fiscal year 2023 impairment testing indicated that the estimated fair values of our reporting units were significantly in excess of their carrying values. Accordingly, we believe that only significant changes in the cash flow assumptions would result in an impairment of goodwill.  However, variances between the actual performance of the businesses and the assumptions that were used in developing the estimates of fair value could result in impairment charges in future periods. 45 Indefinite-lived Intangible Asset Impairment Our indefinite-lived intangible assets consist of brand names and trademarks. We estimate fair values through the use of the relief-from-royalty method and then compare those fair values to the related carrying amounts of the indefinite-lived intangible asset. In the event that the fair value of any of the brand names or trademarks are less than their related carrying amounts, a non-cash impairment loss would be recognized in an amount equal to the difference. The estimation of fair values of our brand names and trademarks requires us to make significant assumptions, including expectations with respect to sales and profits of the respective brands and trademarks, related royalty rates, income tax rates and appropriate discount rates, which are based, in part, upon current interest rates adjusted for our view of reasonable country- and brand - specific risks based upon the past and anticipated future performance of the related brand names and trademarks . The assumptions used to assess impairment consider historical trends, macroeconomic conditions, and projections consistent with our operating strategy. Changes in these estimates can have a significant impact on the assessment of fair value which could result in material impairment losses. As of November 30, 2023, we had $3,045.6 million of brand names assets and trademarks recognized in our consolidated balance sheet, and none of the balances exceeded their estimated fair values at that date. Of the $3,045.6 million of brand names assets and trademarks as of November 30, 2023:  (i) $2,320.0 million relates to the French’s, Frank’s RedHot and Cattlemen’s brand names and trademarks, recognized as part of our acquisition of RB Foods in August 2017, that we group for purposes of our impairment analysis; (ii) $380.0 million relates to the Cholula brand names and trademarks associated with the acquisition of Cholula in November 2020, (iii) $49.0 million relates to the FONA brand names and trademarks associated with the acquisition of FONA in December 2020 and (iv) the remaining $296.6 million represents a number of other brand name assets and trademarks with individual carrying values ranging from $0.2 million to $106.4 million. Except for four brand names assets and trademarks with a carrying value of approximately $446 million, including our recent acquisitions of Cholula and FONA, the percentage excess of estimated fair value over respective book values for each of our brand names and trademarks, was 20% or more as of our fourth quarter annual impairment assessment. The brand names and trademarks related to recent acquisitions, including our recent acquisitions of Cholula and FONA, may be more susceptible to future impairment as their carrying values represent recently determined fair values. A change in assumptions with respect to recently acquired businesses, including those affected by rising interest rates or a deterioration in expectations of future sales, profitability or royalty rates as well as future economic and market conditions, or higher income tax rates, could result in non-cash impairment losses in the future. Income Taxes We estimate income taxes and file tax returns in each of the taxing jurisdictions in which we operate and are required to file a tax return. At the end of each year, an estimate for income taxes is recorded in the financial statements. Tax returns are generally filed in the third or fourth quarter of the subsequent year. A reconciliation of the estimate to the final tax return is done at that time, which will result in changes to the original estimate. We believe that our tax return positions are appropriately supported, but tax authorities can challenge certain of our tax positions. We evaluate our uncertain tax positions in accordance with the GAAP guidance for uncertainty in income taxes. We recognize a tax benefit when it is more likely than not the position will be sustained upon examination, based on its technical merits. The tax position is then measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. A change in judgment related to the expected ultimate resolution of uncertain tax positions will be recognized in earnings in the quarter of such change. We believe that our reserve for uncertain tax positions, including related interest and penalties, is adequate. As of November 30, 2023, the Company had $27.7 million of unrecognized tax benefits, including interest and penalties, recorded in Other long-term liabilities. The amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and, therefore, could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. We have recorded valuation allowances to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In doing so, we have considered future taxable income and tax planning strategies in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. Both future taxable income and tax planning strategies include a number of estimates, as more fully described in note 1 of notes to our consolidated financial statements. 46 Pension Benefits Pension plans’ costs require the use of assumptions for discount rates, investment returns, projected salary increases, and mortality rates. The actuarial assumptions used in our pension benefit reporting are reviewed annually and compared with external benchmarks to ensure that they appropriately account for our future pension benefit obligations. While we believe that the assumptions used are appropriate, changes in various assumptions and differences between the actual returns on plan assets and the expected returns on plan assets and changes to projected future rates of return on plan assets will affect the amount of pension expense or income ultimately recognized. A 1% increase or decrease in the actuarial assumption for the discount rate would impact 2024 pension benefit expense by approximately $1.1 million. A 1% increase or decrease in the expected return on plan assets would impact 2024 pension expense by approximately $9.7 million. We will continue to evaluate the appropriateness of the assumptions used in the measurement of our pension benefit obligations. In addition, see note 11 of notes to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of these assumptions and the effects on the financial statements.