********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Risks Related to Global Economic and Market Conditions Global economic, political and market factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services, and our profitability and business could suffer. The global financial services business is, by its nature, risky and volatile and is directly affected by many national and international factors that are beyond our control. Any one of these factors may cause a substantial decline in the U.S. and/or global financial services markets, resulting in reduced trading volume. These events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These factors include: There have been significant declines in trading volumes in the financial markets generally in the past and there may be similar declines in trading volumes generally or across our platforms in particular in the future. Any one or more of the above factors may contribute to reduced trading volumes. Our revenues and profitability are likely to decline significantly during periods of stagnant economic conditions or low trading volume in the U.S. and global financial markets. While we are expanding our businesses to new geographic areas, our business operations have historically been substantially located in the U.S. and the U.K. Due to the concentration of our operations in the U.S. and U.K. we are subject to greater regional risks than those of some of our competitors. Our business has been, and our results of operations and financial condition may be, impacted by the outbreak of, and global response to, the Pandemic and such impact could be materially adverse. The global spread of the novel coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has created significant volatility in the markets we serve and has increased uncertainty and economic disruption. The extent to which the Pandemic impacts our business, operations, and financial results is uncertain and will depend on numerous evolving factors that we may not be able to accurately predict, including: 22 In addition, the increase in our employees working remotely has amplified certain risks related to, among other things, the increased demand on our information technology resources and systems, the increased risk of phishing and other cybersecurity attacks as cybercriminals try to exploit the uncertainty surrounding the Pandemic, and the increased number of points of possible attack, such as laptops and mobile devices (both of which are now being used in increased numbers), to be secured. Any failure to effectively manage these increased demands and risks, including to timely identify and appropriately respond to cyberattacks, may adversely affect our business. As a result of the Pandemic, the global economy is currently experiencing a period of significant turmoil and we have experienced significant changes in our daily operations. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Factors Affecting our Industry and our Company— Economic, Political and Market Factors .” Due to the uncertainty of the duration, scope and severity of the Pandemic, the uncertainty as to what governmental measures may yet be taken in response to the Pandemic and the unpredictable effect on our business, our employees and our clients, we are not able to reasonably estimate the extent of any potential future impact of the Pandemic on our financial condition or results of operations, but the impact could be material. Even after the Pandemic has subsided, we may continue to experience impacts to our business as a result of the Pandemic’s global economic impact. Further, our operating and financial results may be affected in a manner that is not presently known to us or in a manner that we currently do not consider to present significant risks to our operations given the unprecedented and continuously evolving nature of the Pandemic. The U.K. exit from the European Union could materially adversely impact our business, clients, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Brexit has significantly affected the fiscal, monetary and regulatory landscape in both the U.K. and E.U., and could have a material impact on their economies and the growth of various industries in the future. In particular, the ecosystem of the E.U. financial services industry in which we operate, which prior to Brexit has been heavily centered in London, has become more decentralized. The exit of the U.K. has significantly impacted the business environment in which we and our clients operate, increased the complexity and cost of conducting business in both the E.U. and the U.K., and introduces significant new barriers to cross-border trading, including uncertainties with respect to the legal and regulatory requirements to which we and our clients are subject. We historically conducted business in Europe primarily through the “passporting rights” of our U.K. subsidiaries, which have been eliminated as a result of Brexit. Following Brexit, we now have new regulatory and operational costs and challenges associated with the operation of our regulated subsidiaries in the Netherlands, which we use to provide our trading platforms and certain post-trade services to our clients in the E.U. We could also be adversely affected by having to manage a less centralized customer and employee base. Brexit is expected to lead to legal uncertainty and divergence between the U.K. and E.U. financial regulations, which may impact our ability to comply with the extensive government regulation to which we are subject. In addition, the cost and complexity of operating across increasingly divergent regulatory regimes could increase following Brexit. Brexit has also required us to make changes to the technology underlying our trading platforms and regulatory reporting systems in the U.K. and E.U., which has resulted in new regulatory and operational costs and challenges. Changes to U.K. immigration policy will also occur as a result of Brexit and our access to, and our ability to compete for and hire, skilled employees in both the U.K. and the E.U. is expected to become more constrained. Although it is not possible at this point in time to predict fully the effects of the exit of the U.K. from the E.U., any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Operating in the Electronic Fixed-Income Trading Markets Decreases in trading volumes in the fixed-income markets generally or on our platforms would harm our business and profitability. We have experienced significant decreases in overall market volumes in the past and may experience similar decreases in market volumes in the future. Declines in the overall volume of fixed-income securities trading and in market liquidity generally, as well as declines in interest rate volatility, could result in lower revenues from commissions for trades executed on our electronic trading platforms and fees generated from related activities. 23 Likewise, decreases in our share of the segments of the fixed-income trading markets in which we operate, or shifts in trading volume to segments of clients which we have not penetrated, could result in lower trading volume on our platform s and, consequently, lower commissions and revenue. During periods of increased volatility in credit markets, the use of electronic trading platforms by market participants may decrease dramatically as institutional investors may seek to obtain additional information during the trade process through conversations with broker-dealers. In addition, during rapidly moving markets, broker-dealers are less likely to post prices electronically. Our market share of the fixed-income trading markets is also impacted by a variety of other factors, including the amount of new issuances of corporate debt, the level of bond fund inflows or outflows, the percentage of volumes comprised of Rule 144A transactions, the percentage of volumes comprised of larger trades known as “ block trades ” , the level of credit spreads and credit volatility and whether the prevalent market environment is an “offer wanted” or “bid wanted” environment. A decline in overall market volumes, trading volumes on our platforms or our platforms’ market share for any reason would negatively affect our commission revenue and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The industry in which we operate is rapidly evolving. If we are unable to adapt our business effectively to keep pace with industry changes, we may not be able to compete effectively, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The electronic financial services industry is characterized by rapidly changing and increasingly complex technologies and systems, changing and increasingly sophisticated client demands (including access to new technologies and markets), frequent technology and service introductions, evolving industry standards, changing regulatory requirements and new business models. If we are not able to keep pace with changing market conditions or client demands and if our competitors release new functionality or technology before we do, our existing platforms, solutions and technologies may become obsolete or our competitive position may be materially harmed, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Operating in a rapidly evolving industry involves a high degree of risk and our future success depends in part on our ability to: If we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks or in executing our business strategy, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. We face substantial competition that could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. The fixed-income securities industry generally, and the electronic financial services markets in which we operate in particular, are highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. Within our markets, we compete based on our ability to provide our clients with deep liquidity, a broad network of market participants, a wide range of products and protocols, and comprehensive pre-trade, trade and post-trade functionality, as well as the reliability, security and ease of use of our electronic platforms and solutions, among other factors. We primarily compete with other electronic trading platforms and trading businesses conducted directly between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients over the telephone, email or instant messaging. Our current and prospective competitors are numerous and include: 24 Many of our current and potential competitors are more established and substantially larger than we are and have substantially greater market presence, as well as greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources. These competitors may aggressively reduce their pricing to enter into, or otherwise compete in, market segments in which we provide services, potentially subsidizing any losses with profits from trading in other fixed-income or equity securities or other business operations. In addition, many of our competitors offer a wider range of services, have broader name recognition and have larger customer bases than we do. Some of them may be able to respond more quickly to new or evolving opportunities, technologies and client requirements than we can and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities. Competition in the markets in which we operate has intensified due to consolidation, which has resulted in increasingly large and sophisticated competitors. In recent years, our competitors have made acquisitions and/or entered into joint ventures and consortia to improve the competitiveness of their electronic trading offerings. If, as a result of industry consolidation, our competitors are able to offer lower cost and/or a wider range of trading venues and solutions, obtain more favorable terms from third-party providers or otherwise take actions that could increase their market share, our competitive position and therefore our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Our operations also include the sale of pre- and post-trade services, analytics and market data. There is a high degree of competition among market data and information vendors in solutions for pre- and post-trade data, analytics and reporting, and such businesses may become more competitive in the future as new competitors emerge. Some of these companies are already in or may enter the electronic trading business. Accordingly, some of our competitors may be able to combine use of their electronic trading platforms with complementary access to market data and analytical tools and/or leverage relationships with existing clients to obtain additional business from such clients, which could preempt use of our platforms or solutions. For example, Bloomberg, Refinitiv and ICE own trading platforms that compete with ours and also have a data and analytics relationships with the vast majority of institutional, wholesale and retail market participants. If we are not able to compete successfully in this area in the future, our revenues could be adversely impacted and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to our Future Levels of Business, Profitability and Growth Neither the sustainability of our current level of business nor any future growth can be assured. Even if we do experience growth, we cannot assure you that we will grow profitably. The success of our business strategy depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and expand the network of market participants that use our electronic trading platforms. Our business strategy also depends on increasing the use of our platforms by these participants for a wide range of fixed-income products and trade sizes. Individuals at broker-dealers or institutional investors may have conflicting interests, which may discourage their use of our platforms. We cannot assure you that the growth of electronic means of trading securities that we have experienced in recent years will continue. Our growth may also be dependent on our ability to diversify our revenue base. We currently derive approximately 48.7% of our revenues from secondary trading in U.S. high-grade corporate bonds. Our long-term business strategy includes expanding our service offerings and increasing our revenues from other fixed-income products and other sources. We cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful or result in increased revenues or continued profitability. We have experienced significant growth in trading volumes, revenues and profitability in recent years. We cannot assure you that our business will continue to grow at a similar rate, if at all. We may enter into new fee plans, the impact of which may be difficult to evaluate; past trends in commissions are not necessarily indicative of future commissions. From time to time, we may introduce new fee plans for the market segments in which we operate. Any new fee plan may include different fee structures or provide volume incentives. We cannot assure you that any new fee plans will result in an increase in the volume of transactions executed over our platforms or that our revenues will increase as a result of the implementation of any such fee plans. It is possible that our broker-dealer or institutional investor clients could respond to a new fee plan by either reducing the amount of their business conducted on our platforms or terminating their contractual relationship with us, which could have an adverse impact on our fees and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, under certain of our fee plans, our fees are designated in basis points in yield (and, as a result, are subject to fluctuation depending on the duration of the bond traded) or our fees vary based on trade size or maturity. We anticipate that our average fees per million may vary in the future due to changes in yield, years-to-maturity and nominal size of bonds traded on our platform. Consequently, past trends in commissions are not necessarily indicative of future commissions. 25 As we enter new markets, we may not be able to successfully attract clients and adapt our technology and marketing strategy for use in those markets. Our strategy includes leveraging our electronic trading platforms to enter new markets, including new asset classes, products and geographies, including markets where we have little or no operating experience. We may have difficulties identifying and entering into new markets due to established competitors, lack of recognition of our brand and lack of acceptance of our platforms and solutions, as has occurred with certain of our initiatives in the past. Expansion, particularly in new geographic markets, may require substantial expenditures and take considerable time. In particular, we may need to make additional investments in management and new personnel, infrastructure and compliance systems. Furthermore, our expansion efforts may divert management’s attention or inefficiently utilize our resources. If we are not able to manage our expansion effectively, our expansion costs could increase at a faster rate than our revenues from these new markets. If we cannot successfully implement the necessary processes to support and manage our expansion, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully adapt our proprietary software and technology for use in any new markets. Even if we do adapt our products, services and technologies, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract clients to our platforms and compete successfully in any such new markets. We cannot assure you that our marketing efforts or our pursuit of any of these opportunities will be successful. If these efforts are not successful, we may realize less than expected earnings, which in turn could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock. We may face increasing economic and regulatory challenges in our growing international operations that we may not be able to meet in the future. We operate electronic trading platforms in Europe, Latin America and Asia and we may further expand our operations throughout these and other regions. We have invested significant resources in our foreign operations and the increasing globalization of our platforms and services. However, there are certain risks inherent in doing business in international markets, particularly in the financial services industry, which is heavily regulated in many jurisdictions. These risks include: Our international operations are also subject to the legal, economic and market risks associated with geopolitical uncertainties in other regions of the world, including but not limited to the risk of war, inter and intra national conflict, economic crises and terrorism. In addition, we must comply with the laws, regulations and registration rules of foreign governments and regulatory bodies for each country in which we conduct business. For example, MiFID II was implemented by regulatory bodies in Europe in January 2018. We cannot predict the full extent to which any of these new regulations or future regulatory changes may impact our European business and operations, but they may cause us to expend significantly more compliance, business and technology resources, incur additional operational costs and create additional regulatory exposure. Brexit could lead to further legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which E.U. laws to replace or replicate. Our compliance with these changing laws and regulations may be costly and time-consuming and may have a material adverse effect on our clients’ trading activities on our platforms. We cannot predict what future actions the regulatory bodies that supervise our business might take, or the impact that any such actions may have on our business. Further, we may face unexpected challenges in our international operations due to global competitors, established local markets, and economic and political instability. Our inability to manage these risks effectively could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to expand our international operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 26 Risks Related to our Customer Concentration We are dependent on our broker-dealer clients, who are not restricted from using their own proprietary or third-party platforms to transact with our institutional investor clients. We rely on our broker-dealer clients to provide liquidity on our electronic trading platforms by posting prices for bonds in their inventory and responding to institutional investor client inquiries. The contractual obligations of our broker-dealer clients to us are minimal, non-exclusive and terminable by such clients. Our broker-dealer clients buy and sell fixed-income securities through traditional methods, including by telephone and e-mail messaging, and through other electronic trading platforms. Some of our broker-dealer clients have developed electronic trading networks that compete with us or have announced their intention to explore the development of such electronic trading networks, and many of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients are involved in other ventures, including other electronic trading platforms or other distribution channels, as trading participants and/or as investors. These competing trading platforms may offer some features that we do not currently offer. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that such broker-dealers’ primary commitments will not be to one of our competitors. If bank-affiliated entities reduce their trading activity and that activity is not replaced by other market participants, the level of liquidity and pricing available on our trading platform would be negatively impacted, which could adversely affect our operating results. In the U.S., the Volcker Rule section of the Dodd-Frank Act bans proprietary trading by banks and their affiliates, which could adversely affect our bank-affiliated broker-dealer clients’ ability to make markets in a variety of fixed-income securities. In addition, over the past several years, there has been significant consolidation among firms in the banking and financial services industries and several of our large broker-dealer clients have reduced their sales and trading businesses in fixed-income products. Further consolidation, instability, and layoffs in the financial services industry could result in a smaller client base and heightened competition, which may lower volumes. Any reduction in the use of our electronic trading platforms by our broker-dealer clients could reduce the volume of trading on our platform, which could, in turn, reduce the use of our platforms by our institutional investor clients. The occurrence of any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could lose significant sources of revenue and trading volume if we lose any of our significant institutional investor clients. We rely on our institutional investor clients to launch inquiries over our trading platforms and, increasingly, to provide liquidity through our Open Trading protocols. A limited number of such clients can account for a significant portion of our trading volume. The obligations of our institutional investor clients to us under our standard contractual agreements are minimal, non-exclusive and terminable by such clients. Our institutional investor clients also buy and sell fixed-income securities through traditional methods, including by telephone, e-mail and instant messaging, and through other electronic trading platforms. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our major institutional investor clients or that such clients will continue to use our trading platform. The loss of a major institutional investor client or any reduction in the use of our electronic trading platforms by such clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Credit and Operational Risks We are exposed to risks in connection with certain transactions in which we act as a matched principal intermediary. In connection with our anonymous trading protocols, we execute certain bond transactions between and among institutional investor and broker-dealer clients on a matched principal basis by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in trades which are then settled by us or through a third-party clearing broker. Settlement typically occurs within one to two trading days after the trade date. Cash settlement of the transaction occurs upon receipt or delivery of the underlying instrument that was traded. We are exposed to credit and performance risks in our role as matched principal trading counterparty to the clients on our platforms, including the risk that counterparties that owe us money or securities will not perform their obligations. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Adverse movements in the prices of securities that are the subject of these transactions can increase our risk. In connection with Open Trading or other anonymous protocols, we expect that the number of transactions in which we act as a matched principal will increase. 27 In the process of executing matched principal transactions, miscommunications and other errors by our clients or us can arise that involve substantial risks of liability. These risks include, among others, potential liability from disputes over the terms of a trade, the settlement of the trade, or claims that we resolved an error trade dispute incorrectly or that a system malfunction or delay caused monetary loss to a client. In addition, because of the ease and speed with which trades can be executed on our electronic platform s , clients can lose substantial amounts by inadvertently entering trade instructions or by entering trade orders inaccurately. A significant error trade or a large number of error trades could result in participant dissatisfaction and a decline in participant willingness to trade on our platform s . Although we maintain error trade policies designed to protect our anonymous trading participants and enable us to manage the risks attendant in acting as a matched principal counterparty, depending on the cause, number and value of the trades that are the subject of an alleged error or dispute, such trades have the potential to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we are required to hold a securities position as a result of an error, there may also be financing costs or regulatory capital charges required to be taken by us. We have policies, procedures and automated controls in place to identify and manage our credit risk, though there can be no assurance that they will effectively mitigate our credit risk exposure. Some of our risk management procedures are reliant upon the evaluation of information regarding the fixed-income markets, our clients or other relevant matters that are publicly available or otherwise acquired from third party sources. Such information may not be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly assessed and interpreted by us. If our risk management procedures fail, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Furthermore, our insurance policies are unlikely to provide coverage for such risks. Self-clearing exposes us to significant operational, liquidity, financing and regulatory risks. We began self-clearing substantially all of our bond transactions for our U.S. operations in the third quarter of 2020 and we may expand self-clearing to our foreign operations in the future. Self-clearing requires us to finance transactions and maintain margin deposits at clearing organizations. Self-clearing exposes our business to operational risks, including business and technology disruption; operational inefficiencies; liquidity, financing and regulatory risks; and potentially increased expenses. In connection with our conversion to self-clearing for our U.S. operations in 2020, we experienced operational inefficiencies and technology issues which, in combination with the capital and liquidity requirements that are imposed on all new self-clearing members, resulted in increased fail rates in the immediate period following the conversion. Although the initial conversion issues for our U.S. clearing operations have been resolved, in the future, we may encounter difficulties with self-clearing that lead to operating inefficiencies, technology issues, dissatisfaction amongst our client base, disruption in the infrastructure that supports the business, inadequate liquidity, increased margin requirements with clearing organizations and third-party settlement agents who provide financing with respect to transactions, reductions in available borrowing capacity and financial loss. Any such delay, disruption, expense or failure could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions and manage our exposure to risk. Moreover, any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Technology, IT Systems and Cybersecurity Risks Rapid market or technological changes may render our technology obsolete or decrease the attractiveness of our products and services to our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. We must continue to enhance and improve our electronic trading platforms. The electronic financial services industry is characterized by significant structural changes, increasingly complex systems and infrastructures, changes in clients’ needs and preferences and new business models. If new industry standards and practices emerge and our competitors release new technology before us, our existing technology, systems and electronic trading platforms may become obsolete or our existing business may be harmed. Our future success will depend on our ability to: Developing our electronic trading platforms and other technology entails significant technical and business risks. We may use new technologies ineffectively or we may fail to adapt our electronic trading platforms, information databases and network infrastructure to broker-dealer or institutional investor client requirements or emerging industry standards. If we face material delays in introducing new services, products and enhancements, our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients may forego the use of our platforms and use those of our competitors. 28 Further, the adoption of new internet, networking, cloud, telecommunications or blockchain technologies may require us to devote substantial resources to modify and adapt our services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement new technologies or adapt our proprietary technology and transaction-processing systems to client requirements or emerging industry standards. We cannot assure you that we will be able to respond in a timely manner to changing market conditions or client requirements. We depend on third-party suppliers for key products and services. We rely on a number of third parties to supply elements of our trading, information and other systems, as well as computers and other equipment, and related support and maintenance. We cannot assure you that any of these providers will be willing and able to continue to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner, if at all, or that they will be able to adequately expand their services to meet our needs. If we are unable to make alternative arrangements for the supply of critical products or services in the event of a malfunction of a product or an interruption in or the cessation of service by an existing service provider, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In particular, we depend on third-party vendors for our bond reference databases, the clearing and settlement of our Open Trading transactions and to provide the technology underpinning our U.S. Treasury platform. We obtain essential reference data and information services from external sources, including data received from certain competitors, clients, self-regulatory organizations and other third-party data providers. Our reference data sources and information providers could increase the price for or withdraw their data or information services for a variety of reasons. Further, as has occurred in the past, our competitors could revise the current terms on which they provide us with data or information services or could cease providing us with data or information services altogether for a variety of reasons, including competition. Disruptions in the services provided by those third-parties to us, including as a result of their inability or unwillingness to continue to license products or provide technology services that are critical to the success of our business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also rely, and expect in the future to continue to rely, on third parties for various computer and communications systems, such as telephone companies, online service providers, data processors, cloud computing and software and hardware vendors. Other third parties provide, for instance, our data center, telecommunications access lines and significant computer systems and software licensing, support and maintenance services. Any interruption in these or other third-party services or deterioration in their performance could impair the quality of our service. We cannot be certain of the financial viability of all of the third parties on which we rely. We license software from third parties, much of which is integral to our electronic trading platform and our business. We also hire contractors to assist in the development, quality assurance testing and maintenance of our electronic trading platform and other systems. Continued access to these licensors and contractors on favorable contract terms or access to alternative software and information technology contractors is important to our operations. Adverse changes in any of these relationships has in the past had, and could in the future have, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We attempt to negotiate favorable pricing, service, confidentiality and intellectual property ownership or licensing and other terms in our contracts with our third-party service providers. These contracts usually have multi-year terms. However, there is no guarantee that these contracts will not terminate and that we will be able to negotiate successor agreements or agreements with alternate service providers on competitive terms. Further, the existing agreements may bind us for a period of time to terms and technology that become obsolete as our industry and our competitors advance their own operations and use of technology. Our success depends on maintaining the integrity and capacity of our electronic trading platforms, systems and infrastructure. In order to be successful, we must provide reliable, secure, real-time access to our electronic trading platforms for our clients. If our trading platforms cannot cope, or expand to cope, with demand, or otherwise fail to perform, we could experience disruptions in service, slow delivery times and insufficient capacity. These consequences could result in our clients deciding to stop using or reduce their use of our platforms, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As our operations grow in both size and scope, we will need to continually improve and upgrade our electronic trading platforms and infrastructure to accommodate potential increases in order message volume and trading volume, the trading practices of new and existing clients, regulatory changes and the development of new and enhanced trading platform features, functionalities and ancillary products and services. The expansion of our electronic trading platforms and infrastructure has required, and will continue to require, substantial financial, operational and technical resources. These resources will typically need to be committed well in advance of any actual increase in trading volumes and order messages. We cannot assure you that our estimates of future trading volumes and order messages will be accurate or that our systems will always be able to accommodate actual trading volumes and order messages without failure or degradation of performance. Furthermore, we use new technologies to upgrade our established systems, and the development of these new technologies also entails technical, financial and business risks. We cannot assure you that we will successfully implement new technologies or adapt our existing electronic trading platforms, technology and systems to the requirements of our broker-dealer 29 and institutional investor clients or to emerging industry standards. The inability of our electronic trading platform s to accommodate increasing trading volume and order messages would also constrain our ability to expand our business. Systems failures, interruptions, delays in service, catastrophic events and resulting interruptions in the availability of our trading platforms could materially harm our business and reputation. Our business depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our trading platforms, systems, networks and infrastructure. We cannot assure you that we, or our third-party providers, will not experience systems failures or business interruptions, as has occurred in the past. Our systems, networks, infrastructure and other operations, in particular our trading platforms, are vulnerable to impact or interruption from a wide variety of causes, including: irregular or heavy use of our trading platforms during peak trading times or at times of increased market volatility; power, internet or telecommunications failures; hardware failures or software errors; human error, acts of vandalism or sabotage; catastrophic events, such as natural disasters, extreme weather events or acts of war or terrorism; malicious cyberattacks or cyber incidents, such as unauthorized access, ransomware, loss or destruction of data, computer viruses or other malicious code; and the loss or failure of systems over which we have no control, such as loss of support services from critical third-party providers. In addition, we may also face significant increases in our use of power and data storage and may experience a shortage of capacity and/or increased costs associated with such usage. Any failure of, or significant interruption, delay or disruption to, or security breaches affecting, our systems, networks or infrastructure has in the past, and could in the future, result in: disruption to our operations, including disruptions in service to our clients; slower response times; distribution of untimely or inaccurate market data to clients who rely on this data for their trades; delays in trade execution; incomplete or inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of trades; significant expense to repair, replace or remediate systems, networks or infrastructure; financial losses and liabilities to clients; loss of clients; legal or regulatory claims, proceedings, penalties or fines. Any system failure or significant interruption, delay or disruption in our operations, or decreases in the responsiveness of our platforms, could materially harm our reputation and business and lead our clients to decrease or cease their use of our platforms. We internally support and maintain many of our systems and networks, including those underlying our trading platforms; however, we may not have sufficient personnel to properly respond to all systems, networks or infrastructure problems. Our failure to monitor or maintain our systems, networks and infrastructure, including those maintained or supported by our third-party providers, or to find a replacement for defective or obsolete components within our systems, networks and infrastructure in a timely and cost-effective manner when necessary, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we generally have disaster recovery and business continuity plans that utilize industry standards and best practices for much of our business, including redundant systems, networks, computer software and hardware and data centers to address interruption to our normal course of business, our systems, networks and infrastructure may not always be fully redundant and our disaster recovery and business continuity plans may not always be sufficient or effective. Similarly, although some contracts with our third-party providers, such as our hosting facility providers, require adequate disaster recovery or business continuity capabilities, we cannot be certain that these will be adequate or implemented properly. Our disaster recovery and business continuity plans are heavily reliant on the availability of the internet and mobile phone technology, so any disruption of those systems would likely affect our ability to recover promptly from a crisis situation. If we are unable to execute our disaster recovery and business continuity plans, or if our plans prove insufficient for a particular situation or take longer than expected to implement in a crisis situation, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur. If we experience design defects, errors, failures or delays with our platforms, products or services, including our auto-execution technology and pricing algorithms, our business could suffer serious harm. Our platforms, products and services, including our auto-execution technology and pricing algorithms, may and have from time to time contained design defects and errors when first introduced or when new updates or enhancements are released. In our development of new protocols, platform features and updates and enhancements to our existing platforms, products and services, including our auto-execution technology and pricing algorithms, we may make a design error that causes the platform, protocol or feature to operate incorrectly or less effectively. Many of our protocols also rely on data and services provided by third-party providers over which we have limited or no control and may be provided to us with defects, errors or failures. Our clients may also use our platforms, products or services together with their own software, data or products from other companies. As a result, when problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. If design defects, errors or failures are discovered in our current or future platforms or protocols, we may not be able to correct or work around them in a cost-effective or timely manner or at all. The existence of design defects, errors, failures or delays that are significant, or are perceived to be significant, could also result in rejection or delay in market acceptance of our platforms or protocols, damage to our reputation, loss of clients and related revenues, diversion of resources, product liability claims, regulatory actions or increases in costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 30 Malicious cyber-attacks and other adverse events affecting our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause losses or regulatory penalties. The operation of our electronic trading platforms relies on the secure processing, storage and transmission of a large amount of transactional data and other confidential sensitive data (including confidential client and personal information). Our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential and personal customer information), unavailability or disruption of service, computer viruses, acts of vandalism, or other malicious code, cyber-attack and other adverse events that could have an adverse security impact. Despite the defensive measures we have taken, we are, and will continue to be, subject to attacks, which may come from external factors such as governments, organized crime, hackers, and other third parties such as infrastructure-support providers and application developers, or may originate internally from an employee or service provider to whom we have granted access to our computer systems. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to trading or other confidential or personal information, our reputation could be damaged, our business would suffer and we could incur material liability. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage computer systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. Our business also depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our platforms, systems, networks and infrastructure. Any failure of, or significant interruption, delay or disruption to, our systems, networks or infrastructure due to a cyber-attack could result in: disruption to our operations, including disruptions in service to our clients; slower response times; distribution of untimely or inaccurate market data to clients who rely on this data for their trades; delays in trade execution; incomplete or inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of trades; significant expense to repair, replace or remediate systems, networks or infrastructure; financial losses and liabilities to clients; loss of clients; legal or regulatory claims, proceedings, penalties or fines. We also face the risk of operational disruption, failure or capacity constraints of any of the third-party service providers that facilitate our business activities, including clients, clearing agents and trading system software, network or data providers. Such parties could also be the source of a cyber-attack on or breach of our operational systems, data or infrastructure. Any system failure or significant interruption, delay or disruption in our operations, or decreases in the responsiveness of our platforms, could materially harm our reputation and business and lead our clients to decrease or cease their use of our trading platform. There have been an increasing number of cyber-attacks in recent years in various industries, including ours, and cybersecurity risk management has been the subject of increasing focus by our regulators. Our regulators in recent years have increased their examination and enforcement focus on matters relating to cybersecurity threats, including the assessment of firms’ vulnerability to cyber-attacks. In particular, regulatory concerns have been raised about firms establishing effective cybersecurity governance and risk management policies, practices and procedures; protecting firm networks and information; identifying and addressing risks associated with clients, vendors, and other third parties; preventing and detecting unauthorized activities; adopting effective mitigation and business continuity plans to address the impact of cybersecurity breaches; and establishing protocols for reporting cybersecurity incidents. Any insurance that we may have that covers a specific cybersecurity incident would not protect us from the effects of adverse regulatory actions that may result from the incident or a finding that we had inadequate cybersecurity controls, including the reputational harm that could result from such regulatory actions. Our remediation costs and lost revenues could be significant if we fall victim to a cyber-attack. If an actual, threatened or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and could cause our clients to reduce or stop their use of our electronic trading platforms. We may be required to expend significant resources to repair system damage, protect against the threat of future security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm, loss of clients and revenues and litigation, caused by any breaches. We may be found liable to our clients for any misappropriated confidential or personal information. Although we intend to continue to implement industry-standard security measures, we cannot assure you that those measures will be sufficient. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with privacy, data protection and information security laws, regulations, and obligations could harm our business. Data privacy is subject to frequently changing rules and regulations in countries where we do business. For example, the E.U. adopted the General Data Protection Regulations (“GDPR”), which as of May 2018 requires entities both in the European Economic Area and outside to comply with new regulations regarding the handling of personal data. Brexit has created additional uncertainty with regard to the regulation of data protection as the U.K now has its own data protection laws which are separate from the E.U. GDPR. We are also subject to certain U.S. federal and state laws governing the protection of personal data. These laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number. In addition to the increased cost of compliance, our failure to successfully implement or comply with appropriate processes to adhere to the GDPR and other laws and regulations relating to personal data could result in substantial financial penalties for non-compliance, expose us to litigation risk and could result in significant liability, increased costs or cause our clients to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business . 31 Intellectual Property Risks We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights or technology effectively, which would allow competitors to duplicate or replicate our electronic trading platforms or any of our other current or future functionalities, products or services. This could adversely affect our ability to compete. Intellectual property is critical to our success and ability to compete, and if we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our technology. We rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as license agreements, third-party non-disclosure and other agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. We attempt to negotiate beneficial intellectual property ownership provisions in our contracts and also require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements in order to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information. We have been issued 13 patents covering aspects of our technology and/or business, but can give no assurances that any such patents will protect our business and processes from competition or that any patents applied for in the future will be issued. Additionally, laws and our contractual terms may not be sufficient to protect our technology from use or theft by third parties. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that these protections will be adequate to prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. We may have legal or contractual rights that we could assert against illegal use of our intellectual property rights, but lawsuits claiming infringement or misappropriation are complex and expensive, and the outcome would not be certain. In addition, the laws of some countries in which we now or in the future provide our services may not protect software and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If our efforts to secure, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights are inadequate, or if any third party misappropriates, dilutes or infringes on our intellectual property, the value of our brand may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Defending against intellectual property infringement or other claims could be expensive and disruptive to our business. If we are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we could be required to redesign our technology, pay royalties or enter into license agreements with third parties. In the technology industry, there is frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. As the number of participants in our market increases and the number of patents and other intellectual property registrations increases, the possibility of an intellectual property claim against us grows. Although we have never been the subject of a material intellectual property dispute, we cannot assure you that a third party will not assert in the future that our technology or the manner in which we operate our business violates its intellectual property rights. From time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property rights of others, and we expect that third parties may assert intellectual property claims against us, particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our business, the number of electronic trading platforms increases and the functionality of these platforms further overlaps. Any claims, whether with or without merit, could be expensive and time-consuming to defend, make it more difficult to operate or prevent us from operating our business, or portions of our business, and result in significant monetary liability. We cannot assure you that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us, as they have done in the past, with respect to our electronic trading platforms or any of our other current or future products or services or that any such assertion will not require us to cease providing such services or products, try to redesign our products or services, enter into royalty arrangements, if available, or engage in litigation that could be costly to us. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Possible Transactions or Investments If we acquire or invest in other businesses, products or technologies, and are unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any such transactions or any strategic alliances, partnerships or joint ventures, which we may enter into. From time to time, we may pursue acquisitions, which may not be completed or, if completed, may not be as beneficial to us as expected. We have made acquisitions in the past, including the purchases of LiquidityEdge in 2019 and the regulatory reporting business of Deutsche Borse in 2020. We also may consider potential divestitures of businesses from time to time. We routinely evaluate potential acquisition and divestiture candidates and engage in discussions and negotiations regarding potential acquisitions and divestitures on an ongoing basis; however, even if we execute a definitive agreement, there can be no assurance that we will consummate the transaction within the anticipated closing timeframe, or at all. Moreover, there is significant competition for acquisition and expansion opportunities in the electronic financial services industry. 32 If we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a business, product or technology, such acquisitions and investments may involve a number of risks, including: These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. From time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions or investments that are not ultimately consummated. Such negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as out-of-pocket costs. The consideration paid in connection with an investment or acquisition also affects our financial results. If we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash to consummate any acquisition. To the extent we issue shares of capital stock or other rights to purchase capital stock, including options or other rights, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. In addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs, such as of acquired in-process research and development costs, and restructuring charges. We may also enter into strategic alliances, partnerships or joint ventures as a means to accelerate our entry into new markets, provide new solutions or enhance our existing capabilities. Entering into strategic alliances, partnerships and joint ventures entails risks, including: (i) difficulties in developing or expanding the business of newly formed alliances, partnerships and joint ventures; (ii) exercising influence over the activities of joint ventures in which we do not have a controlling interest; (iii) potential conflicts with or among our partners; (iv) the possibility that our partners could take action without our approval or prevent us from taking action; and (v) the possibility that our partners become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations. Risks Related to Key Personnel and Employees We are dependent on our management team, and the loss of any key member of this team may prevent us from implementing our business plan in a timely manner. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel, particularly Richard M. McVey, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our Board of Directors. The terms of Mr. McVey’s employment agreement with us do not require him to continue to work for us and allow him to terminate his employment at any time, subject to certain notice requirements and forfeiture of non-vested equity compensation awards. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance on any of our executive officers and other key personnel. Although we have invested in succession plans and we have short-term contingency plans in place, any loss or interruption of Mr. McVey’s services or that of one or more of our other executive officers or key personnel for any reason, as well as any negative market or industry perception arising from such loss or interruption, could result in our inability to manage our operations effectively and/or pursue our business strategy. 33 Because competition for our employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our business. We strive to provide high-quality services that will allow us to establish and maintain long-term relationships with our clients. Our ability to provide these services and maintain these relationships, as well as our ability to execute our business plan generally, depends in large part upon our employees. We must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially for software engineers with extensive experience in designing and developing software and internet-related services, product managers and senior sales executives. The market for qualified personnel has become increasingly competitive as an increasing number of existing and new competitors focus on the electronic trading of fixed income products. Many of these competitive ventures are interested in hiring our experienced technology personnel and our qualified sales staff. Additionally, highly innovative technology firms may offer attractive employment opportunities to our technology personnel. Many of these firms have greater resources than we have and are able to offer more lucrative compensation packages. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. The failure to attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulatory and Legal Risks We operate in a highly regulated industry and we may face restrictions with respect to the way we conduct certain of our operations. Our business is subject to increasingly extensive governmental and other regulations. These regulations are designed to protect public interests generally rather than the interests of our stockholders. The SEC, FINRA, the CFTC and other agencies extensively regulate the United States financial services industry, including most of our operations in the United States. Much of our international operations are subject to similar regulations in their respective jurisdictions, including regulations overseen by the FCA in the U.K., the AFM in the Netherlands, the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority in Switzerland, ASIC in Australia, the Monetary Authority of Singapore, the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission, the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada and provincial regulators in Canada, and the Securities and Exchange Commission and Central Bank in Brazil. In addition, our regulatory reporting business is registered as an ARM and APA with the FCA and the AFM. As a matter of public policy, these regulatory bodies are responsible for safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and protecting the interests of investors in those markets. These regulatory bodies have broad powers to promulgate and interpret, investigate and sanction non-compliance with their laws, rules and regulations. Most aspects of our broker-dealer and other licensed subsidiaries are highly regulated, including the way we deal with our clients; our capital requirements; our financial and regulatory reporting practices; required record-keeping and record retention procedures; the licensing of our employees; and the conduct of our directors, officers, employees and affiliates. We cannot assure you that we and/or our directors, officers and employees will be able to fully comply with these laws, rules and regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of our business, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our membership in FINRA and registration as a broker-dealer. Certain of our regulated subsidiaries, including our registered broker-dealers and MTF, are subject to U.S. or foreign regulations which prohibit repayment of borrowings from us or our affiliates, paying cash dividends, making loans to us or our affiliates or otherwise entering into transactions that result in a significant reduction in regulatory net capital or financial resources, without prior notification to or approval from such subsidiary’s principal regulator. MarketAxess SEF Corporation is registered with the CFTC as a SEF and is required, among other things, to maintain sufficient financial resources to cover operating costs for at least one year. Our ability to operate our platforms in a jurisdiction is dependent on continued registration or authorization in that jurisdiction or the maintenance of a proper exemption from such registration or authorization. Our ability to comply with all applicable laws and rules is largely dependent on our compliance, credit approval, audit and reporting systems and procedures, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance, credit approval, audit and risk management personnel. Our systems and procedures may not be sufficiently effective to prevent a violation of all applicable rules and regulations. In addition, the growth and expansion of our business may create additional strain on our compliance systems, procedures and personnel and has resulted, and we expect will continue to result, in increased costs to maintain and improve these systems. In addition, because our industry is heavily regulated, regulatory approval may be required in order to continue or expand our business activities and we may not be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals on a timely or cost-effective basis, or at all. Even if approvals are obtained, they may impose restrictions on our business or we may not be able to continue to comply with the terms of 34 the approvals or applicable regulations. The implementation of unfavorable regulations or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulatory bodies could require us to incur significant compliance costs or cause the development or continuation of business activities in affected markets to become impractical. For a further description of the regulations which may limit our activities, see “Item 1. Business—Government Regulation.” Some of our subsidiaries are subject to regulations regarding changes in control of their ownership. These regulations generally provide that regulatory approval must be obtained in connection with any transaction resulting in a change in control of the subsidiary, which may include changes in control of MarketAxess. As a result of these regulations, our future efforts to sell shares or raise additional capital may be delayed or prohibited in circumstances in which such a transaction would give rise to a change in control as defined by the applicable regulatory body. Our business and the trading businesses of many of our clients are subject to increasingly extensive government and other regulation, which may affect our trading volumes and increase our cost of doing business. Our business, and the business of many of our clients, is subject to extensive regulation. Governmental and regulatory authorities periodically review legislative and regulatory initiatives, and may promulgate new or revised, or adopt changes in the interpretation and enforcement of existing, rules and regulations at any time. The new administration elected in the 2020 U.S. presidential election may enact regulatory changes that may affect our business. Any such changes in laws, rules or regulations or in governmental policies could create additional regulatory exposure for our business, cause us to incur significant additional costs, require us to change or cease aspects of our business or restrict or limit our ability to grow our business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. There have been in the past, and could be in the future, significant technological, operational and compliance costs associated with the obligations that derive from compliance with evolving laws, rules and regulations. We cannot predict whether additional changes to the laws, rules and regulations that govern our business and operations, including changes to their interpretation, implementation or enforcement, will occur in the future or the extent to which any such changes will impact our business and operations. For example, the divergence of the U.K. from the E.U. in relation to the future development of MiFID II and other rules and regulations governing the financial markets (such as the Central Securities Depository Regulation) may adversely affect us in ways yet to be determined. In addition, we cannot predict how current proposals that have not yet been finalized and/or that remain subject to ongoing debate will be implemented or in what form. We believe that uncertainty and potential delays around the final form of such new laws, rules and regulations may negatively impact our clients and trading volumes in certain markets in which we transact. Additionally, unintended consequences of such new laws, rules and regulations may adversely affect our industry, our clients and us in ways yet to be determined. Any such legal and regulatory changes could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The extensive regulation of our business means we have ongoing exposure to potentially significant costs and penalties. Our businesses are subject to regulation by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in the jurisdictions in which we operate around the world. Many of these regulators, including U.S. and non-U.S. government agencies and self-regulatory organizations, as well as state securities commissions in the U.S., are empowered to bring enforcement actions and to conduct administrative proceedings and examinations, inspections, and investigations, which may result in costs, penalties, fines, enhanced oversight, additional requirements, restrictions, or limitations, and censure, suspension, or expulsion. Self-regulatory organizations such as FINRA and the National Futures Association (“NFA”), along with statutory bodies such as the SEC, the CFTC, and the FCA, and other international regulators, require strict compliance with their rules and regulations. Firms in the financial services industry have experienced increased scrutiny in recent years, and penalties, fines and other sanctions sought by regulatory authorities, including the SEC, the CFTC, FINRA, the NFA, state securities commissions and state attorney generals in the U.S., and the FCA in the U.K. and other international regulators, have increased accordingly. Accordingly, we face the risk of regulatory intervention, investigations and proceedings, any of which could involve extensive scrutiny of our activities and result in significant fines and liability. Any of these developments would require significant time and financial resources and could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and operating results. We are subject to the risks of litigation and securities laws liability. Many aspects of our business, and the businesses of our clients, involve substantial risks of liability. Dissatisfied clients have in the past, and may in the future, make claims against us regarding quality of trade execution, improperly settled trades, resolution of trade error claims, system failures, failure to protect their confidential or personal information, mismanagement or even fraud. We may become subject to these claims as the result of delays, failures or malfunctions of our electronic trading platform and the services provided by us. We could incur significant legal expenses defending claims, even those without merit. An adverse resolution of any lawsuits or claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 35 Liquidity and Funding Risks We cannot predict our future capital needs or our ability to obtain additional financing if we need it. Our business is dependent upon the availability of adequate funding and regulatory capital under applicable regulatory requirements. The growth of our Open Trading protocols, in particular, is dependent on the willingness of our customers and counterparties to engage in transactions with us and any perceived issues with our capital levels or access to funding could have a material adverse effect on business. As a result of our self-clearing activities, we are also required to finance certain transactions, maintain deposits with various clearing organizations and clearing broker-dealers and maintain a special reserve bank account for the benefit of customers pursuant to SEC Rule 15c3-3. Although we believe that our available cash resources and borrowing capacity under our credit agreements are sufficient to meet our presently anticipated liquidity needs and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months, we may in the future need to raise additional funds to, among other things: In addition, our liquidity could be impaired due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects our trading customers or counterparties, other third parties or us. All or part of any debt financing could be pursuant to the terms of our credit agreements with third party lenders, which include restrictive covenants with respect to dividends, issuances of additional capital and other financial and operational matters related to our business. In the future, we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If sufficient funds are not available or are not available on terms acceptable to us, our ability to fund our expansion, finance transactions and maintain margin deposits at clearing organizations, take advantage of acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance our services or products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. These limitations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our credit agreement contains restrictive and financial covenants that could limit our operating flexibility, and we may incur additional debt in the future that may include similar or additional restrictions. We are party to a credit agreement that provides for revolving loans and letters of credit up to an aggregate of $500.0 million. Subject to the satisfaction of certain specified conditions, we are permitted to upsize the borrowing capacity of the credit agreement by an additional $250.0 million. Our credit agreement contains certain covenants that, among other things, may restrict our ability to take certain actions, even if we believe them to be in our best interests. These covenants may restrict or prohibit, among other things, our ability to: We are also required by our credit agreement to maintain a maximum consolidated total net leverage ratio, a minimum regulatory net capital balance for certain subsidiaries and a minimum consolidated adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (“EBITDA”) level. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet these requirements or satisfy these covenants in the future. A breach of any of these covenants or the inability to comply with the required financial covenants could result in an event of default under the credit agreement. If any such event of default occurs, the lenders under the credit agreement could elect to declare all amounts outstanding and accrued and unpaid interest under the credit agreement to be immediately due and payable, and could foreclose on the assets securing the credit agreement. The lenders would also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further credit extensions. We may incur other indebtedness in the future that may contain financial or other covenants more restrictive than those applicable to the credit agreement. 36

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with “Selected Financial Data” and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to historical information, this discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements relating to future events and the future performance of MarketAxess that are based on our current expectations, assumptions, estimates and projections about us and our industry. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results and timing of various events could differ materially from those anticipated in such forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors, as more fully described in this section, in “Item 1A. Risk Factors”, in “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Except as may be required by applicable law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason, even if new information becomes available or other events occur in the future. The following discussion includes a comparison of our Financial Results, Cash Flow Comparisons and Liquidity and Capital Resources for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. A discussion of changes in our Financial Results and Cash Flow Comparisons from the year ended December 31, 2018 to December 31, 2019 may be found in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. Executive Overview MarketAxess operates leading electronic trading platforms delivering expanded liquidity opportunities, improved execution quality and significant cost savings across global fixed-income markets. Over 1,800 institutional investor and broker-dealer firms are active users of our patented trading technology, accessing global liquidity on our platforms in U.S. investment-grade bonds, U.S. high-yield bonds, U.S. Treasuries, emerging market debt, Eurobonds and other fixed income securities. Through our Open Trading™ protocols, we execute bond trades between and among institutional investor and broker-dealer clients in the leading all-to-all anonymous trading environment for corporate bonds. We also offer a number of trading-related products and services, including: Composite+ TM pricing and other market data products to assist clients with trading decisions; auto-execution and other execution services for clients requiring specialized workflow solutions; connectivity solutions that facilitate straight-through processing; and technology services to optimize trading environments. In addition, we provide a range of pre- and post-trade services, including trade matching, trade publication, regulatory transaction reporting and market and reference data across a range of fixed-income and other products . Our platforms’ innovative technology solutions are designed to increase the number of potential trading counterparties and create a menu of solutions to address different trade sizes and bond liquidity characteristics. Our traditional request-for-quote (“RFQ”) model allows our institutional investor clients to simultaneously request competing, executable bids or offers from our broker-dealer clients and execute trades with the broker-dealer of their choice from among those that choose to respond. Our Open Trading protocols complement our RFQ model by increasing the number of potential counterparties and improving liquidity by allowing all participants to interact anonymously in an all-to-all trading environment. Clients can use our auto-execution technology with both our traditional RFQ and Open Trading protocols, thereby using rules-based execution to connect to diverse sources of liquidity while reducing trading inefficiencies and human errors. Leveraging the benefits of our Open Trading marketplace, we launched Live Markets, an order book that will create a single view of two-way, actionable prices for the most active bonds, including newly issued debt, benchmark issues and news-driven securities. We expect that Open Trading participants will improve their trading capacity through the Live Markets order book, by more efficiently trading liquid names in larger size and accessing integrated real-time market data, such as Composite+ . We derive revenue from commissions for trades executed on our platform, information services, post-trade services and other revenues. Our expenses consist of employee compensation and benefits, depreciation and amortization, technology and communication expenses, professional and consulting fees, occupancy, marketing and advertising, clearing costs and other general and administrative expenses. Our objective is to provide the leading global electronic trading platforms for fixed-income securities, connecting broker-dealers and institutional investors more easily and efficiently, while offering a broad array of trading information and technology services to market participants across the trading cycle. The key elements of our strategy are: 42 Critical Factors Affecting Our Industry and Our Company Economic, Political and Market Factors The global fixed-income securities industry is risky and volatile and is directly affected by a number of economic, political and market factors that may result in declining trading volume. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These factors include, among others, credit market conditions, the current interest rate environment, including the volatility of interest rates and investors’ forecasts of future interest rates, economic and political conditions in the United States, Europe and elsewhere, and the consolidation or contraction of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients. During the first half of 2020, the global economy experienced a period of significant turmoil due to the outbreak of COVID-19 (the “Pandemic”). The Pandemic triggered a steep drop in economic activity that had an immediate and substantial impact on global credit markets. Credit yield spreads in U.S. corporate bonds, as measured by the Credit Suisse Liquid U.S. Corporate Index (“LUCI Index”), increased from 1.1% over U.S Treasuries in December 2019 to 1.5% in March 2020 and credit spread volatility in U.S. corporate bonds, as measured by the LUCI Index, increased from 1.1% in December 2019 to 11.6% in March 2020. Drastic measures taken by central banks and governments helped restore confidence in the credit markets in the second half of 2020, which led to a tightening in credit spreads that helped stimulate record new issuance in U.S. investment-grade and high-yield corporate bonds. During the second half of 2020, the credit markets continued to improve as credit yield spreads and credit spread volatility tightened to pre-Pandemic levels. The volatile market conditions in 2020 led to an active credit trading environment as the average daily trading volume of U.S. high-grade and high-yield corporate bonds for the year ended December 31, 2020, as measured by Trade Reporting and Compliance Engine (“TRACE”), increased by 13.7% and 19.7%, respectively, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. As a result of the Pandemic, we have experienced significant changes in our daily operations. In mid-March 2020, we successfully implemented a global work from home mandate for all our employees and we were able to continue to provide our trading platforms and other services to our clients without interruption. In particular, we believe that Open Trading liquidity has been increasingly essential to the functioning of credit markets during the Pandemic, and MarketAxess has played a valuable role keeping our clients connected to the market as traders moved from their centralized trading floors to home offices. During the first several months of the Pandemic, we helped over 10,000 individual users connect to our trading platforms from their homes. Although we have reprioritized certain technology projects due to the changing needs of our clients in the current market environment, we have largely continued with our hiring plans, capital expenditures and the expansion of our trading platforms and services into new jurisdictions. The global spread of the Pandemic is complex and rapidly-evolving, with authorities around the world implementing numerous measures to try to contain the coronavirus, such as travel bans and restrictions, social distancing, quarantines, stay at home orders, business limitations and, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2020, vaccinations. While we remain confident that we can continue to maintain business continuity, serve our clients and provide efficient execution in a virtual environment as necessary, we have re-opened our offices and have allowed our employees to return to work, on a voluntary basis, where local regulations permit. The re-opening of offices has created additional risks and operational challenges relating to maintaining the health and safety of our employees. We also anticipate that the full re-opening of our offices may require investments in the design, implementation and enforcement of new workplace safety protocols. These efforts may divert management attention, and the protocols may create logistical challenges for our employees which could adversely impact employee productivity and morale. We believe that we have sufficient liquidity and flexibility to operate during any future disruptions caused by the Pandemic. While we have experienced increased market volumes and market share since the outbreak, we are cautious of the damaging impact the Pandemic may have on the global economy in the longer-term and the adverse impact that a global recession could have on liquidity and market volumes in the global credit markets. We expect that current cash and investment balances, in combination with cash flows that are generated from operations and the ability to borrow under our Credit Agreement (as defined below), will be sufficient to meet our liquidity needs and planned capital expenditure requirements for at least the next twelve months. We have not altered our capital management programs and we have increased our dividend for the 12 th consecutive year. We ended the quarter with a strong balance sheet, no borrowings under our Credit Agreement and with capital significantly in excess of our regulatory requirements. In response to the current economic conditions, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the “FRBNY”) established a Secondary Market Corporate Credit Facility (the “Facility”) that lent money, on a recourse basis, to a special purpose vehicle (“SPV”) that 43 purchase d corporate debt issued by eligible issuers in the secondary market . The SPV purchase d eligible individual corporate bonds in the secondary market, as well as eligible corporate bond portfolios in the form of exchange-traded funds (“ETFs”). In September 2020, we were designated by the FRBNY as an Eligible Seller for the Facility, which allow ed us to p rovide end investors and broker-dealers the opportunity to use Open Trading to respond directly and anonymously to the FRBNY’s requests to purchase bonds. Competitive Landscape The global fixed-income securities industry generally, and the electronic financial services markets in which we engage in particular, are highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. Sources of competition for us will continue to include, among others, bond trading conducted directly between broker-dealers and their institutional investor clients over the telephone or electronically and other multi-dealer or all-to-all trading platforms. Competitors, including companies in which some of our broker-dealer clients have invested, have developed or acquired electronic trading platforms or have announced their intention to explore the development of electronic platforms or information networks that may compete with us. In general, we compete on the basis of a number of key factors, including, among others, the liquidity provided on our platform, the magnitude and frequency of price improvement enabled by our platform, total transaction costs and the quality and speed of execution. We believe that our ability to grow volumes and revenues will largely depend on our performance with respect to these factors. Our competitive position is also enhanced by the familiarity and integration of our broker-dealer and institutional investor clients with our electronic trading platform and other systems. We have focused on the unique aspects of the credit markets we serve in the development of our platform, working closely with our clients to provide a system that is suited to their needs. Regulatory Environment Our business is subject to extensive regulations in the United States and internationally, which may expose us to significant regulatory risk and cause additional legal costs to ensure compliance. The existing legal framework that governs the financial markets is periodically reviewed and amended, resulting in the enactment and enforcement of new laws and regulations that apply to our business. For example, t he new administration elected in the 2020 U.S. presidential election may enact regulatory changes that may affect our business. In 2017, the SEC established a Fixed Income Market Structure Advisory Committee in order to provide the SEC with diverse perspectives on the structure and operations of the U.S. fixed-income markets, as well as advice and recommendations on matters related to fixed-income market structure. The impact of any reform efforts on us and our operations remains uncertain . In addition, the U.K. ceased to be a member of the E.U. on January 31, 2020, triggering a transition period in which the U.K. continued to observe applicable E.U. regulations through December 31, 2020 (commonly referred to as “Brexit”). In preparation for Brexit, we obtained authorizations from the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets for our subsidiaries in the Netherlands in 2019. Following Brexit, we now provide regulated services to our clients within the E.U. in reliance on the cross-border services passport held by our Dutch subsidiaries. Brexit has led to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which E.U. laws to replace or replicate, which may impact our ability to comply with the extensive government regulation to which we are subject. In addition, the cost and complexity of operating across increasingly divergent regulatory regimes is likely to increase following Brexit . Compliance with regulations may require us to dedicate additional financial and operational resources, which may adversely affect our profitability. However, we believe new regulations may also increase demand for our platforms and we believe we are well positioned to benefit from those regulatory changes that cause market participants to seek electronic platforms that meet the various regulatory requirements and help them comply with their regulatory obligations . On August 10, 2020, MarketAxess Corporation, our broker-dealer subsidiary, converted to self-clearing for the U.S bond trades to which MarketAxess Corporation is a counterparty via its Open Trading functionality. Previously, these bond transactions were settled through a third-party clearing broker. As a result of this conversion, MarketAxess Corporation is required to segregate funds in a special reserve bank account for the benefit of customers pursuant to Rule 15c3-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 44 Technolog y Environment We must continue to enhance and improve our electronic trading platform. The electronic financial services industry is characterized by increasingly complex systems and infrastructures and new business models. Our future success will depend on our ability to enhance our existing products and services, develop and/or license new products and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our existing and prospective broker-dealer and institutional investor clients and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. We plan to continue to focus on technology infrastructure initiatives and continually improve our platforms to further enhance our leading market position. We expect that our transition to agile software development processes will help us continue to be a market leader in developing the technology solutions for our clients’ trading needs. We experience cyber-attacks and attempted security breaches. Cybersecurity incidents could impact revenue and operating income and increase costs. We therefore continue to make investments, which may result in increased costs, to strengthen our cybersecurity measures. See also Item 1A. Risk Factors , “Technology, IT Systems and Cybersecurity Risks - Our actual or perceived failure to comply with privacy, data protection and information security laws, regulations, and obligations could harm our business.” Trends in Our Business The majority of our revenue is derived from commissions for transactions executed on our platforms between and among our institutional investor and broker-dealer clients and monthly distribution fees. We believe that there are five key variables that impact the notional value of such transactions on our platforms and the amount of commissions and distribution fees earned by us : We believe that overall corporate bond market trading volume is affected by various factors including the absolute levels of interest rates, the direction of interest rate movements, the level of new issues of corporate bonds and the volatility of corporate bond spreads versus U.S. Treasury securities. Because a significant percentage of our revenue is tied directly to the volume of securities traded on our platforms, it is likely that a general decline in trading volumes, regardless of the cause of such decline, would reduce our revenues and have a significant negative impact on profitability . Commission Revenue Commissions are recognized on a trade date basis and generally calculated as a percentage of the notional dollar volume of bonds traded on our platforms and vary based on the type, size, yield and maturity of the bond traded and individual client incentives. Bonds that are more actively traded or that have shorter maturities are generally charged lower commissions, while bonds that are less actively traded or that have longer maturities generally command higher commissions. For Open Trading trades that we execute between and among institutional investor and broker-dealer clients on a matched principal basis by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller, we earn our commission through the difference in price between the two trades. For U.S. Treasury matched principal trades, commissions are invoiced and recorded on a monthly basis. U.S. High-Grade Corporate Bond Commissions. Our U.S. high-grade corporate bond fee plans generally incorporate variable transaction fees and fixed distribution fees billed to our broker-dealer clients on a monthly basis. Certain dealers participate in fee programs that do not contain monthly distribution fees and instead incorporate additional per transaction execution fees and minimum monthly fee commitments. Under these fee plans, we electronically add the transaction fee to the spread quoted by the broker-dealer client. The U.S. high-grade transaction fee is generally designated in basis points in yield and, as a result, is subject to fluctuation depending on the duration of the bond traded. The average U.S. high-grade fees per million may vary in the future due to changes in yield, years-to-maturity and nominal size of bonds traded on our platforms. Distribution fees include any unused monthly fee commitments under our variable fee plans. 45 Other Credit Commissions. Other credit includes Eurobonds, emerging markets bonds, high-yield bonds , municipal bonds and leveraged loans . Commissions for other credit products generally vary based on the type of the instrument traded using standard fee schedules. Our high-yield fee plan structure is s imilar to our U.S. high-grade fee plans . C ertain dealers participate in a high-yield fee plan that incorporates a variable transaction fee and fixed distribution fee, while other dealers participate in a plan that does not contain monthly distribution fees and instead incorporates additional per transaction execution fees and minimum monthly fee commitments. The average other credit fees per million may vary in the future due to changes in product mix or trading protocols . Rates Commissions. Rates includes U.S. Treasury, U.S. agency, European government bonds and credit derivatives. Commissions for rates products generally vary based on the type of the instrument traded. U.S. Treasury fee plans are typically volume tiered and can vary based on the trading protocol. The average rates fee per million may vary in the future due to changes in product mix or trading protocols. We anticipate that average fees per million may change in the future. Consequently, past trends in commissions are not necessarily indicative of future commissions. Information Services We generate revenue from data licensed to our broker-dealer clients, institutional investor clients and data-only subscribers; professional and consulting services; technology software licenses; and maintenance and support services. These revenues are either for subscription-based services transferred over time, and may be net of volume-based discounts, or one-time services. Revenues for services transferred over time are recognized ratably over the contract period while revenues for services transferred at a point in time are recognized in the period the services are provided. Customers are generally billed monthly, quarterly, or annually; revenues billed in advance are deferred and recognized ratably over the contract period. Post-trade Services We generate revenue from regulatory transaction reporting, trade publication and trade matching services. Customers are generally billed monthly in arrears and revenue is recognized in the period that the transactions are processed. Revenues billed in advance are deferred and recognized ratably over the contract period. We also generate one-time implementation fees for onboarding clients which are invoiced and recognized in the period the implementation is complete. Other Revenue Other revenue includes revenue generated from telecommunications line charges to broker-dealer clients. Expenses In the normal course of business, we incur the following expenses: Employee Compensation and Benefits. Employee compensation and benefits is our most significant expense and includes employee salaries, stock-based compensation costs, other incentive compensation, employee benefits and payroll taxes. Depreciation and Amortization. We depreciate our computer hardware and related software, office hardware and furniture and fixtures and amortize our capitalized software development costs on a straight-line basis over three to seven years. We amortize leasehold improvements on a straight-line basis over the lesser of the life of the improvement or the remaining term of the lease. Intangible assets with definite lives, including purchased technologies, customer relationships and other intangible assets, are amortized over their estimated useful lives, which range from one to 15 years, using either a straight-line or accelerated amortization method based on the pattern of economic benefit that we expect to realize from such assets. Intangible assets are assessed for impairment when events or circumstances indicate a possible impairment. Technology and Communications. Technology and communications expense consists primarily of costs relating to maintenance on software and hardware, our internal network connections, data center hosting costs, data feeds provided by outside vendors or service providers and US treasuries licensing fees. The majority of our broker-dealer clients have dedicated high-speed communication lines to our network in order to provide fast data transfer. We charge our broker-dealer clients a monthly fee for these connections, which is recovered against the relevant expenses we incur. Professional and Consulting Fees. Professional and consulting fees consist primarily of accounting fees, legal fees and fees paid to information technology and other consultants for services provided for the maintenance of our trading platforms, information and post-trade services products and other services. 46 Occupancy. Occupancy costs consist primarily of office and equipment rent, utilities and commercial rent tax . Marketing and Advertising. Marketing and advertising expense consists primarily of print and other advertising expenses we incur to promote our products and services. This expense also includes costs associated with attending or exhibiting at industry-sponsored seminars, conferences and conventions, and travel and entertainment expenses incurred by our sales force to promote our trading platforms, information services and post-trade services. Clearing Costs. Clearing costs consist of fees that we are charged by third-party clearing brokers and depositories for the clearing and settlement of matched principal trades, regulatory reporting fees and variable transaction fees assessed by the provider of our third-party middle office system. General and Administrative. General and administrative expense consists primarily of general travel and entertainment, board of directors’ expenses, charitable contributions, provision for doubtful accounts and various state franchise and U.K. value-added taxes. Expenses may grow in the future, notably in employee compensation and benefits, as we increase headcount to support investment in new products, operational support and geographic expansion, depreciation and amortization due to increased investment in new products and enhancements to our trading platforms, and technology and communication costs. Expenses may also grow due to acquisitions. Other Income (Expense) Investment Income . Investment income consists of income earned on our investments. Interest Expense. Interest expense consists of financing charges incurred on short-term borrowings. Other, Net. Other, net consists of unrealized gains or losses on trading security investments, realized gains or losses on investments, foreign currency transaction gains or losses, investment advisory fees, credit facility administrative fees and other miscellaneous revenues and expenses. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations discusses our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, also referred to as U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting periods. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under varying assumptions or conditions. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, for a summary of the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. 47 Segment Results We operate electronic platforms for the trading of fixed-income securities and provide related data, analytics, compliance tools and post-trade services. We consider our operations to constitute a single business segment because of the highly integrated nature of these product and services, the financial markets in which we compete and our worldwide business activities. We believe that results by geographic region or client sector are not necessarily meaningful in understanding our business. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for certain geographic information about our business required by U.S. GAAP. Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2019 The comparability of our results of operations is impacted by our acquisition of LiquidityEdge in November 2019 which enabled us to expand our trading capabilities to include U.S. Treasuries. For additional information regarding this acquisition, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table summarizes our financial results, which includes LiquidityEdge related revenue and expenses of $13.1 million and $14.5 million, respectively, recognized during 2020 and $2.5 million and $3.8 million, respectively, recognized during 2019: Revenues Our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, and the resulting dollar and percentage changes, were as follows: 48 Commissions Our commission revenues for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, and the resulting dollar and percentage changes, were as follows: U.S. high-grade variable transaction fees increased $79.7 million due to a 29.4% increase in trading volume and a 12.7% increase in the variable transaction fee per million. Other credit variable transaction fees increased $68.2 million due to a 29.5% increase in trading volume and a 5.2% increase in the variable transaction fee per million. Open Trading credit volume increased by 60.8% and represented 33.2% and 27.0% of credit variable transaction fees for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The 236.5% increase in variable transaction fees for rates was attributable to the inclusion of U.S. Treasuries trading volume and commissions following the November 1, 2019 acquisition of LiquidityEdge. Our trading volume for each of the years presented was as follows: For volume reporting purposes, transactions in foreign currencies are converted to U.S. dollars at average monthly rates. The 29.4% increase in our U.S. high-grade volume was principally due to an increase in estimated overall market volume coupled with growth in our estimated market share. Our estimated market share of total U.S. high-grade corporate bond volume increased to 21.6% for the year ended December 31, 2020 from 19.0% for the year ended December 31, 2019. Estimated U.S. high-grade TRACE volume increased by 14.2% to $6.3 trillion for the year ended December 31, 2020 from $5.6 trillion for the year ended December 31, 2019. 49 Other cr edit volumes increased by 29.5 % for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, prim arily due to increases of 68.4 % in U.S. high-yield bond volume, 21.3% in Eur obond volume and 14.8 % in emerging markets bond volume on a combination of higher estimated U.S. high-yield market volume and higher U.S. high-yield, emerging markets and Eur o bond estimated market share . Our estimated market share of U.S. high-yield TRACE volume increased to 14.6 % for the year ended December 31, 2020 from 10.4% for the year ended December 31, 2019. The significant increase in rates volume was attributable to the inclusion of U.S. Treasuries trading volumes following the November 1, 2019 acquisition of LiquidityEdge. Our average variable transaction fee per million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 was as follows: The increase in U.S. high-grade average variable transaction fee per million was mainly due to an increase in the duration of bonds traded on the platforms. The increase in Other credit average variable transaction fee per million was mainly due to a larger percentage of trading volume in high-yield bonds that command higher fees per million. The significant decrease in the average variable transaction fee per million for rates products was primarily attributable to the inclusion of U.S. Treasuries trading volumes that command lower fees per million. Information Services. Information services revenue increased $3.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 mainly due to revenue from new data contracts. Post-Trade Services. Post-trade services revenue increased $3.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 principally due to additional regulatory transaction reporting revenue of $1.3 million generated by Regulatory Reporting Hub since the November 30, 2020 acquisition date and the introduction of new SFTR reporting services of $0.9 million. Other. Other revenue was $0.9 million and $1.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. 50 Expenses The following table summarizes our expenses for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019. Expenses for the year ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 include $14.5 million and $3.8 million, respectively, of expenses related to LiquidityEdge, including amortization of acquired intangibles expense of $2.8 million and $0.4 million, respectively. Employee compensation and benefits increased by $25.8 million primarily due increases in salaries, taxes and benefits on higher employee headcount of $16.0 million and employee incentive compensation of $9.1 million, which is tied to operating performance. The total number of employees increased to 606 as of December 31, 2020 from 527 as of December 31, 2019. Depreciation and amortization increased by $9.1 million primarily due to higher amortization of software development costs of $5.0 million and amortization of acquired intangibles of $3.1 million. For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, $15.0 million and $12.3 million, respectively, of equipment purchases and leasehold improvements and $30.6 million and $22.4 million, respectively, of software development costs were capitalized. Technology and communications expenses increased by $7.3 million primarily due to higher IT license and support costs of $3.2 million, U.S. Treasury platform licensing costs of $2.6 million and cloud hosting costs of $1.8 million. Professional and consulting fees increased by $6.8 million primarily due to higher consulting fees related to our self-clearing and settlements initiatives of $2.5 million, audit and tax fees of $1.2 million, recruiting fees of $1.1 million and acquisition-related expenses of $1.1 million. Occupancy costs increased by $1.8 million primarily due to rent expense associated with additional leased office space in London. Marketing and advertising expense decreased $3.6 million due to reduced sales-related travel and entertainment activities as a result of the Pandemic. Clearing costs increased by $9.7 million primarily due to a $6.0 million increase in clearing costs associated with Open Trading matched principal credit transactions and a $3.7 million increase in clearing costs associated with U.S. Treasuries matched principal transactions. Clearing costs as a percentage of Open Trading matched principal credit trading revenue decreased to 9.8% for the year ended December 31, 2020 from 11.0% for the year ended December 31, 2019 principally due to higher Open Trading variable transaction fee per million and transaction cost savings resulting from our conversion to self-clearing U.S. bonds, offset by certain non-recurring self-clearing conversion costs. General and administrative expenses decreased by $3.0 million primarily due to lower general travel and entertainment expense as a result of the Pandemic. 51 Other Income (Expense) Our other income (expense) for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, and the resulting dollar and percentage changes, were as follows: Investment income decreased by $5.6 million primarily due to lower investment balances, due in part to the cash paid for the acquisition of LiquidityEdge in November 2019 of $104.4 million and new self-clearing related deposit, reserve and liquidity requirements, and a decrease in interest rates. Interest expense increased by $1.1 million due to short-term borrowing activity in 2020 to support self-clearing activity. Other, net decreased by $0.2 million primarily due to an increase in credit facility administration costs of $0.8 million, offset by net realized gains on investments of $0.5 million in 2020. Provision for Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes and effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 were as follows: The provision for income taxes reflected $24.1 million and $10.6 million of excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation awards that vested or were exercised during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. During the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, we recorded an additional provision for unrecognized tax benefits of $9.5 million and $2.1 million, respectively. Our consolidated effective tax rate can vary from period to period depending on the geographic mix of our earnings, changes in tax legislation and tax rates and the amount and timing of excess tax benefits related to share-based payments, among other factors. 52 Quarterly Results of Operations Our quarterly results have varied significantly as a result of: The following table sets forth certain unaudited consolidated quarterly income statement data for the eight quarters ended December 31, 2020. In our opinion, this unaudited information has been prepared on a basis consistent with our annual financial statements and includes all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring adjustments) necessary for a fair statement of the unaudited quarterly data. This information should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The results of operations for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results that we may achieve for any subsequent periods. 53 The following tables set forth trading volume and average variable transaction fee per million for the eight quarters ended December 31, 2020. Liquidity and Capital Resources During the past two years, we have met our funding requirements through cash on hand, internally generated funds and short-term borrowings. Cash and cash equivalents and investments totaled $489.0 million at December 31, 2020. Our investments are generally invested in investment-grade securities. We limit the amounts that can be invested in any single issuer and invest in short- to intermediate-term instruments whose fair values are less sensitive to interest rate changes. We believe our investments as of December 31, 2020 that were in an unrealized loss position were not other-than-temporarily impaired. In addition, we believe there has not been any event after such date, including the recent developments related to the Pandemic, that would indicate any other-than-temporary impairment. 54 On August 19, 2020, we amended our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “Prior Credit Agreement”) with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (“JPMorgan”) to, among other things, ( i ) permit investments of up to $500 .0 million in MarketAxess Corporation and (ii) increase the aggregate commitments of the lender under the Prior Credit Agreement from $100 .0 million to $450 .0 million, which we intend to use from time to time to make advances to our broker-dealer subsidiaries to assist with certain capital or liquidity requirements related to our self-clearing and trade settlement activities and for other general corporate purposes. The Prior Credit Agreement matured on November 13, 2020, when we entered into a new credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with a syndicate of lenders and JPMorgan, as administrative agent , that provides aggregate commitments totaling $500 .0 million, consisting of a revolving credit f acility and a $5 .0 million letter of credit sub-limit for standby letters of credit. The Credit Agreement will mature on November 12, 2021, with our option to request up to two additional 364-day extensions at the discretion of each lender and subject to customary conditions. As of December 3 1 , 2020, we had $ 1.0 million in letters of credit outstanding and $ 4 99 .0 million in available borrowing capacity under the Credit Agreement . See Note 1 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the Credit Agreement and the Prior Credit Agreement . In connection with its self-clearing operations, MarketAxess Corporation, our broker-dealer subsidiary, entered into an agreement (the “Collateralized Agreement”) with its settlement bank to provide loans up to an aggregate of $200.0 million on an uncommitted basis. Borrowings under the Collateralized Agreement are collateralized by securities pledged by MarketAxess Corporation to the settlement bank, subject to applicable haircuts and concentration limits. As of December 31, 2020, MarketAxess Corporation had no borrowings outstanding and $200.0 million in available borrowing capacity under the Collateralized Agreement. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the Collateralized Agreement. As a result of our self-clearing activities, we are required to finance certain transactions, maintain deposits with various clearing organizations and clearing broker-dealers and maintain a special reserve bank account for the benefit of customers pursuant to SEC Rule 15c3-3. As of December 31, 2020, the aggregate amount of the positions financed, deposits and customer reserve balances associated with our self-clearing activities was $138.2 million. These requirements can fluctuate based on trading activity, market volatility or other factors which may impact our liquidity or require us to use our capital resources. During the past two years, our cash flows were as follows: Cash Flows for the Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2019 The $138.6 million increase in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to increases in net income of $94.5 million, net sales and maturities of trading investments of $63.9 million, income and other tax liabilities of $16.0 million, depreciation and amortization of $9.1 million and accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities of $6.8 million. These increases in cash provided were offset by an increase of $49.5 million in net receivables from broker-dealers, clearing organizations and customers associated with our self-clearing conversion. The $190.9 million net increase in net cash provided by investing activities was primarily attributable to an increase in net proceeds from sales and maturities of securities available-for-sale of $127.7 million and lower cash used for acquisitions of $74.1 million, offset by an increase in capital expenditures of $10.9 million. The $27.0 million increase in net cash (used in) financing activities was principally due to increases in withholding tax payments on restricted stock vesting and stock option exercises of $16.6 million and cash dividends paid on common stock of $14.3 million, offset by an increase in exercises of stock options of $2.8 million and a decrease in repurchases of our common stock of $1.1 million. Past trends of cash flows are not necessarily indicative of future cash flow levels. A decrease in cash flows may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, business and financial condition. 55 Other Factors Influencing Liquidity and Capital Resources We believe that our current resources are adequate to meet our liquidity needs and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend on a number of factors, including liquidity requirements associated with our self-clearing operations and expenses associated with product development and expansion and new business opportunities that are intended to further diversify our revenue stream. We may also acquire or invest in technologies, business ventures or products that are complementary to our business. In the event we require any additional financing, it will take the form of equity or debt financing. Any additional equity offerings may result in dilution to our stockholders. Any debt financings, if available at all, may involve restrictive covenants with respect to dividends, issuances of additional capital and other financial and operational matters related to our business. Certain of our U.S. subsidiaries are registered as a broker-dealer or a SEF and therefore are subject to the applicable rules and regulations of the SEC, FINRA and the CFTC. These rules contain minimum net capital requirements, as defined in the applicable regulations, and also may require that a significant part of the registrants’ assets be kept in relatively liquid form. Certain of our foreign subsidiaries are regulated by the FCA in the U.K. or other foreign regulators and must maintain financial resources, as defined in the applicable regulations, in excess of the applicable financial resources requirement. As of December 31, 2020, each of our subsidiaries that are subject to these regulations had net capital or financial resources in excess of their minimum requirements. As of December 31, 2020, our subsidiaries maintained aggregate net capital and financial resources that were $435.4 million in excess of the required levels of $21.6 million. Each of our U.S. and foreign regulated subsidiaries are subject to local regulations which generally prohibit repayment of borrowings from our affiliates, paying cash dividends, making loans to our affiliates or otherwise entering into transactions that result in a significant reduction in regulatory net capital or financial resources without prior notification to or approval from such regulated entity’s principal regulator. As of December 31, 2020, the amount of unrestricted cash held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries was $144.4 million. We execute bond transactions between our institutional investor and broker-dealer clients on a matched principal basis by serving as counterparty to both the buyer and the seller in trades. In August 2020, one of our U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries converted to a self-clearing model for the settlement of such transactions. Our other U.S. and U.K subsidiaries continue to settle their transactions through third-party clearing brokers. Settlement typically occurs within one to two trading days after the trade date. Cash settlement of the transaction occurs upon receipt or delivery of the underlying instrument that was traded. Under both the self-clearing and the third-party clearing broker models, we are exposed to credit risk in the event a counterparty does not fulfill its obligation to complete a transaction or if there is a miscommunication or other error in executing a matched principal transaction. Pursuant to the terms of the securities clearing agreements, each third-party clearing broker has the right to charge us for any losses they suffer resulting from a counterparty’s failure on any of our trades. We did not record any liabilities or losses with regard to counterparty failures for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019. In the normal course of business, we enter into contracts that contain a variety of representations, warranties and general indemnifications. Our maximum exposure from any claims under these arrangements is unknown, as this would involve claims that have not yet occurred. However, based on past experience, we expect the risk of material loss to be remote. On November 30, 2020 we acquired Regulatory Services GmbH, the pan-European regulatory reporting business of Deutsche Börse Group. The purchase price was approximately $22.5 million in cash paid at closing and up to $24.6 million in contingent consideration payable within 18 months of the closing. In September 2020, we entered into an agreement to acquire MuniBrokers LLC, a central electronic venue serving municipal bond inter-dealer brokers and dealers. The acquisition is expected to close in the first half of 2021, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions . The purchase price is approximately $45.0 million in cash, plus transaction costs, with $20.0 million paid at closing and up to $25.0 million in contingent consideration payable within three years of the closing. See Item 5 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of our repurchases of our common stock and our dividend policy. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to reporting financial results in accordance with GAAP, we use certain non-GAAP financial measures called earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) and free cash flow (“FCF”). As a result of our conversion to self-clearing, we redefined FCF as cash flow from operating activities excluding the net change in trading investments and net change in securities failed-to-deliver and securities failed-to-receive from broker-dealers, clearing organizations and customers, less expenditures for furniture, equipment and leasehold improvements and capitalized software development costs. We believe these non-GAAP financial measures, when taken into consideration with the corresponding GAAP financial measures, are important in understanding our operating 56 results. EBITDA and FCF are not measures of financial performance or liquidity under GAAP and therefore should not be considered an alternative to net income or cash flow from operating activities as an indicator of operating performance or liquidity. We believe that EBITDA and FCF provide useful additional information concerning profitability of our operations and business trends and the cash flow available to pay dividends, repurchase stock and meet working capital requirements. The table set forth below presents a reconciliation of our net income to EBITDA, as defined, for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019: The table set forth below presents a reconciliation of our net cash provided by operating activities to FCF, as defined, for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019: Effects of Inflation Because the majority of our assets are short-term in nature, they are not significantly affected by inflation. However, the rate of inflation may affect our expenses, such as employee compensation, office leasing costs and communications expenses, which may not be readily recoverable in the prices of our services. To the extent inflation results in rising interest rates and has other adverse effects on the securities markets, it may adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. 57 Contractual Obligations and Commitments As of December 31, 2020, we had the following contractual obligations and commitments: We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the net investment in our U.K. subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2020, the notional value of the foreign currency forward contract outstanding was $157.1 million and the fair value of the liability was $0.8 million. 58