********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

You should consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information presented in this report. These risks have the potential to materially adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. SUMMARY RISK FACTORS Some of the factors that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects, include the following: • The COVID-19 pandemic could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, results of operations, cash flows and financial position; • Our results of operations and investments could be adversely affected by macroeconomic conditions, political events and market conditions; • Our business performance and growth plans could be negatively affected if we are not able to develop and implement improvements in technology or respond effectively to the threat of digital disruption and other technological change; • We could incur significant liability or our reputation could be damaged if our information systems are breached or we otherwise fail to protect client or Company data or information systems; • The costs to comply with, or our failure to comply with, U.S. and foreign laws related to privacy, data security and data protection, such as the E.U. General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and our reputation; • We are subject to significant uninsured exposures arising from errors and omissions, breach of fiduciary duty and other claims; • We cannot guarantee that we are or will be in compliance with all current and potentially applicable U.S. federal and state or foreign laws and regulations, and actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business; • Our business or reputation could be harmed by our reliance on third-party providers or introducers; • The loss of members of our senior management team or other key colleagues could have a material adverse effect on our business; • Failure to maintain our corporate culture could damage our reputation; • Increasing scrutiny and changing expectations from investors, clients and our colleagues with respect to our environmental, social and governance (ESG) practices may impose additional costs on us or expose us to new or additional risks; • We face significant competitive pressures in each of our businesses, including from disintermediation, as our competitive landscape continues to evolve; • We rely on a large number of vendors and other third parties to perform key functions of our business operations and to provide services to our clients. These vendors and third parties may act in ways that could harm our business; • Our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity or data recovery problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability; • We face risks when we acquire businesses; • If we are unable to collect our receivables, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected; • We may not be able to obtain sufficient financing on favorable terms; 14 • Our defined benefit pension plan obligations could cause the Company's financial position, earnings and cash flows to fluctuate; • Our significant non-U.S. operations expose us to exchange rate fluctuations and various risks that could impact our business; • Our quarterly revenues and profitability may fluctuate significantly; • Credit rating downgrades would increase our financing costs and could subject us to operational risk; • We have significantly increased our debt as a result of the JLT acquisition, which could adversely affect our financial flexibility; • The current U.S. tax regime makes our results more difficult to predict; • We are exposed to multiple risks associated with the global nature of our operations; • Results in our Risk and Insurance Services segment may be adversely affected by a general decline in economic activity; • Volatility or declines in premiums and other market trends may significantly impede our ability to grow revenues and profitability; • Adverse legal developments and future regulations concerning how intermediaries are compensated by insurers or clients, as well as allegations of anti-competitive behavior or conflicts of interest more broadly, could have a material adverse effect on Marsh’s business, results of operations and financial condition; • Mercer’s Investments business is subject to a number of risks, including risks related to third-party investment managers, operational risk, conflicts of interest, asset performance and regulatory compliance, that, if realized, could result in significant damage to our business; • Revenues for the services provided by our Consulting segment may decline for various reasons, including as a result of changes in economic conditions, the value of equity, debt and other asset classes, our clients’ or an industry's financial condition or government regulation or an accelerated trend away from actively managed investments to passively managed investments; • Factors affecting defined benefit pension plans and the services we provide relating to those plans could adversely affect Mercer; and • The profitability of our Consulting segment may decline if we are unable to achieve or maintain adequate utilization and pricing rates for our consultants. RISKS RELATING TO THE COMPANY GENERALLY Macroeconomic Risks The COVID-19 pandemic could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Global health concerns relating to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and related government actions taken to reduce the spread of the virus have had a dramatic impact on the macroeconomic environment, and the outbreak continues to materially increase economic uncertainty and reduce economic activity. The outbreak has resulted in authorities implementing numerous measures to try to contain the virus, such as travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter in place or total lock-down orders and business limitations and shutdowns. Such measures have significantly contributed to decreased levels of business activity of our clients and the industries and markets that we serve. Governments around the globe have taken steps to mitigate some of the more severe anticipated economic effects of the virus, but there can be no assurance that such steps will be effective or achieve their desired results in a timely fashion. The outbreak has adversely impacted and is likely to further adversely impact our workforce and operations and the operations of our clients, third-party vendors and business partners. The spread of COVID-19 has caused us to modify our business practices (including transitioning substantially all of our colleagues to a remote work environment, restricting colleague travel, developing social distancing plans for our colleagues and cancelling physical participation in meetings, events and conferences), and we may take further actions as may be required by government authorities or as we determine are in the best interests of our colleagues, clients and business partners. There is no certainty how long such policies will remain in effect or that such measures will be sufficient to mitigate the risks posed by the virus or will otherwise be satisfactory to government authorities. The ongoing impacts of COVID-19 may affect our ability to generate new business, our overall level of profitability and cash flow, and our liquidity due to a number of macroeconomic and operational factors. Such factors may include: • in our Risk and Insurance Services segment, a reduction in demand, pricing and commission for specific lines of coverage most directly affected by COVID-19; • in our Consulting segment, a reduction in fees or commission due to lower demand for our services as clients cut back on expenses; the impact on our business model for delivering services to clients due to restrictions on travel and movement, and guidance around social distancing; and the impact on profitability and margin of not achieving or maintaining adequate utilization and pricing rates; • the timeliness and ultimate collectability of our receivables, including as a result of deferrals of premium payments directed by government authorities, which affects our ability to generate sufficient cash flows; • the impact of disruption in the credit or financial markets, or changes to our credit ratings, which may impact our ability to access capital or repay our significant outstanding indebtedness on favorable terms and our compliance with the covenants contained in the agreements that govern our indebtedness; • an increase in errors & omissions claims related to losses incurred by policyholders arising from the pandemic; • the impact of financial market volatility, including our ability to execute timely trades in light of increased trading volume, which may reduce assets under management and revenue for Mercer’s Investments business; • failure of third parties upon which we rely to meet their obligations to us, or significant disruptions in their ability to meet those obligations in a timely manner, which may be caused by their own financial or operational difficulties; • the impact of an extended period of remote work arrangements on our business continuity plans, and our ability to continue to provide services to our clients; • increased risk of phishing and other cybersecurity attacks or unauthorized dissemination of personal, confidential, proprietary or sensitive data caused by remote work arrangements; and • the potential effects on our internal controls including those over financial reporting as a result of remote work arrangements that are applicable to our team members and business partners. These factors may remain prevalent for a significant period of time and may continue to adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition even after the COVID-19 pandemic subsides. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic had an adverse impact to the Company’s revenue growth, primarily in our businesses that are discretionary in nature, which was partly mitigated through disciplined expense management by implementing restrictions on travel and other cost containment measures. However impacts from COVID-19 in 2020 may not be representative of future conditions. The extent to which the COVID-19 outbreak continues to impact our business, results of operations and financial condition will depend on future developments, which remain highly uncertain and are difficult to predict, including the duration and spread of the outbreak, its severity and strain mutations, the actions to contain the virus and the development and availability of effective treatments and vaccines, and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume. Even after the COVID-19 outbreak subsides, we may continue to experience materially adverse impacts to our business as a result of the virus’s global economic impact, including the availability of credit, adverse impacts on our liquidity and any recession that has occurred or may occur in the future. There are no comparable recent events that provide guidance as to the effect the spread of COVID-19 as a global pandemic may have, and, as a result, the ultimate impact of the outbreak is highly uncertain and 16 subject to change. We do not yet know the full extent of the impacts on our business, our operations or the global economy as a whole. However, the effects could have a material impact on our results of operations and heighten many of our known risks in this section. Our results of operations and investments could be adversely affected by macroeconomic conditions, political events and market conditions. Macroeconomic conditions, political events and other market conditions around the world affect our clients' businesses and the markets they serve. These conditions may reduce demand for our services or depress pricing for those services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes in macroeconomic and political conditions could also shift demand to services for which we do not have a competitive advantage, and this could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. In particular, please see above for detailed risks related to the impact of COVID-19. In addition, the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the European Union, referred to as "Brexit," continues to create political and economic uncertainty, particularly in the United Kingdom and the European Union. While the British government and the E.U. negotiated terms of the withdrawal in December 2020, the agreement did not contain resolutions related to financial services. Accordingly, there remains inevitable uncertainty on the treatment of financial services and the impact of the other terms of the agreement generally on our businesses. We have significant operations and a substantial workforce in the U.K. With 12,500 colleagues and approximately 16% of our revenue from the U.K., the uncertainty surrounding the implementation and effect of Brexit may cause increased economic volatility, affecting our operations and business. The effects of Brexit will depend on the agreements the U.K. makes to retain access to European Union markets and the systems put in place to facilitate future trade and economic relationships. The measures could potentially disrupt the markets we serve and may cause us to lose clients and colleagues. In addition, Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which European Union laws to replace or replicate. These developments may have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of financial markets, both in the U.K. and globally. Any of these factors could affect the demand for our services. Furthermore, currency exchange rates in GBP and the Euro with respect to each other and the U.S. dollar have already been adversely affected by these developments. Should this foreign exchange volatility continue, it could cause volatility in our quarterly financial results. More generally, our investments, including our minority investments in other companies as well as our cash investments and those held in a fiduciary capacity, are subject to general credit, liquidity, counterparty, foreign exchange, market and interest rate risks. These risks may be exacerbated by global macroeconomic conditions, market volatility and regulatory, financial and other difficulties affecting the companies in which we have invested or that may be faced by financial institution counterparties. During times of stress in the banking industry, counterparty risk can quickly escalate, potentially resulting in substantial trading and investment losses for corporate and other investors. In addition, we may incur investment losses as a result of unusual and unpredictable market developments, and we may continue to experience reduced investment earnings if the yields on investments deemed to be low risk remain at or near their current low levels. If the banking system or the fixed income, interest rate, credit or equity markets deteriorate, the value and liquidity of our investments could be adversely affected. Finally, the value of the Company's assets held in other jurisdictions, including cash holdings, may decline due to foreign exchange fluctuations. Technology, Cybersecurity and Data Protection Risks Our business performance and growth plans could be negatively affected if we are not able to develop and implement improvements in technology or respond effectively to the threat of digital disruption and other technological change. We depend in large part on our technology systems for conducting business, as well as for providing the data and analytics we use to manage our business. As a result, our business success is dependent on maintaining the effectiveness of existing technology systems and on continuing to develop and enhance technology systems that support our business processes and strategic initiatives in a cost and resource efficient manner, particularly as our business processes become more digital. We have a number of 17 strategic initiatives involving investments in or partnerships with technology companies as part of our growth strategy, as well as investments in technology and infrastructure to support our own systems. These investments may be costly and require significant capital expenditures, may not be profitable or may be less profitable than what we have experienced historically. In addition, investments in technology systems may not deliver the benefits or perform as expected, or may be replaced or become obsolete more quickly than expected, which could result in operational difficulties or additional costs. In some cases, we also depend on key vendors and partners to provide technology and other support for our strategic initiatives. If these vendors or partners fail to perform their obligations or otherwise cease to work with us, our ability to execute on our strategic initiatives could be adversely affected. If we do not keep up with technological changes or execute effectively on our strategic initiatives, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. In addition, to remain competitive in many of our business areas, we must anticipate and respond effectively to the threat of digital disruption and other technological change. The threat comes from traditional players, such as insurers, through disintermediation as well as from new entrants, such as technology companies, "Insurtech" start-up companies and others. In the past few years, there has been a substantial increase in private equity investments into these Insurtech companies. These players are focused on using technology and innovation, including artificial intelligence (AI), digital platforms, data analytics, robotics and blockchain, to simplify and improve the client experience, increase efficiencies, alter business models and effect other potentially disruptive changes in the industries in which we operate. We could incur significant liability or our reputation could be damaged if our information systems are breached or we otherwise fail to protect client or Company data or information systems. In operating our business and providing services and solutions to clients, we collect, use, store, transmit and otherwise process certain electronic information, including personal, confidential, proprietary and sensitive data such as information related to financial records, health care, mergers and acquisitions and personal data of our clients, colleagues and vendors. We rely on the efficient, uninterrupted and secure operation of complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business and securely process, transmit and store electronic information. In the normal course of business, we also share electronic information with our vendors and other third parties. This electronic information comprises sensitive and confidential data, including information related to financial records, health care, mergers and acquisitions and clients’ personal data. Our information technology systems and safety control systems, and those of our numerous third-party providers, as well as the control systems of critical infrastructure they rely on, such as power grids, are potentially vulnerable to unauthorized access, damage or interruption from a variety of external threats, including cyberattacks, computer viruses and other malware, ransomware and other types of data and systems-related modes of attack. Our systems are also subject to compromise from internal threats such as improper action by employees, vendors and other third parties with otherwise legitimate access to our systems. Moreover, we face the ongoing challenge of managing access controls in a complex environment. The latency of a compromise is often measured in months but could be years, and we may not be able to detect a compromise in a timely manner. We could experience significant financial and reputational harm if our information systems are breached, sensitive client or Company data are compromised, surreptitiously modified, rendered inaccessible for any period of time or maliciously made public, or if we fail to make adequate or timely disclosures to the public or law enforcement agencies following any such event, whether due to delayed discovery or a failure to follow existing protocols. Cyberattacks are increasing in frequency and evolving in nature. We are at risk of attack by a variety of adversaries, including state-sponsored organizations, organized crime, hackers or "hactivists" (activist hackers), through use of increasingly sophisticated methods of attack, including the deployment of artificial intelligence to find and exploit vulnerabilities, such as “deep fakes”, and long-term, persistent attacks referred to as advanced persistent threats. These techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems include, among other things, computer viruses, malicious or destructive code, ransomware, social engineering attacks (including phishing and impersonation), hacking and denial-of-service attacks. Because these techniques change frequently and new techniques may not be identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures, resulting in potential data loss, data unavailability, data corruption or 18 other damage to information technology systems. In addition, remote work arrangements in response to COVID-19 have increased the risk of phishing and other cybersecurity attacks or unauthorized dissemination of personal, confidential, proprietary or sensitive data. As the breadth and complexity of the technologies we use and the software and platforms we develop continue to grow, including as a result of the use of mobile devices, cloud services, "open source" software, social media and the increased reliance on devices connected to the Internet (known as the "Internet of Things"), the potential risk of security breaches and cyber-attacks also increases. Despite ongoing efforts to improve our ability to protect data from compromise, we may not be able to protect all of our data across our diverse systems. Our efforts to improve and protect data from compromise may also identify previously undiscovered instances of security breaches or other cyber incidents. Our policies, employee training (including phishing prevention training), procedures and technical safeguards may also be insufficient to prevent or detect improper access to confidential, personal or proprietary information. In addition, the competition for talent in the data privacy and cybersecurity space is intense, and we may also be unable to hire, develop or retain suitable talent capable of adequately detecting, mitigating or remediating these risks. Should an attacker gain access to our network using compromised credentials of an authorized user, we are at risk that the attacker might successfully leverage that access to compromise additional systems and data. Certain measures that could increase the security of our systems, such as data encryption (including encryption of data at rest), heightened monitoring and logging, scanning for source code errors or deployment of multi-factor authentication, take significant time and resources to deploy broadly, and such measures may not be deployed in a timely manner or be effective against an attack. The inability to implement, maintain and upgrade adequate safeguards could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our information systems must be continually updated, patched, and upgraded to protect against known vulnerabilities. The volume of new software vulnerabilities has increased markedly, as has the criticality of patches and other remedial measures. In addition to remediating newly identified vulnerabilities, previously identified vulnerabilities must also be continuously addressed. Accordingly, we are at risk that cyberattackers exploit these known vulnerabilities before they have been communicated by vendors or addressed. Due to the large number and age of the systems and platforms that we operate, the increased frequency at which vendors are issuing security patches to their products, the need to test patches and, in some cases coordinate with clients and vendors, before they can be deployed, we perpetually face the substantial risk that we cannot deploy patches in a timely manner. We are also dependent on third party vendors to keep their systems patched and secure in order to protect our data. Any failure related to these activities could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have numerous vendors and other third parties who receive personal information from us in connection with the services we offer our clients. We also use hundreds of IT vendors and software providers to maintain and secure our global information systems infrastructure. In addition, we have migrated certain data, and may increasingly migrate data, to the cloud hosted by third-party providers. Some of these vendors and third parties also have direct access to our systems. We are at risk of a cyberattack involving a vendor or other third party, which could result in a breakdown of such third party’s data protection processes or the cyberattackers gaining access to our infrastructure through a supply chain attack. For example, in December 2020, it was widely reported that hackers installed malware into business software updates provided by SolarWinds. The attack was widespread, affecting public and private organizations around the world, including several U.S. government agencies. While we do not believe our operations were affected by this latest attack, it highlighted the vulnerability of IT supply chains. We have a history of making acquisitions and investments, and in April 2019 we completed the acquisition of JLT. The process of integrating the information systems of any businesses we acquire is complex and exposes us to additional risk. For instance, we may not adequately identify weaknesses and vulnerabilities in an acquired entity’s information systems, either before or after the acquisition, which could affect the value we are able to derive from the acquisition, expose us to unexpected liabilities or make our own systems more vulnerable to a cyberattack. In addition, if we discover a historical compromise, security breach or other cyber incident related to the target’s information systems following the close of the acquisition, we may be liable and exposed to significant costs and other unforeseen 19 liabilities. We may also be unable to integrate the systems of the businesses we acquire into our environment in a timely manner, which could further increase these risks until such integration takes place. We have from time to time experienced data incidents and cybersecurity breaches, such as malware incursions (including computer viruses and ransomware), users exceeding their data access authorization, employee misconduct and incidents resulting from human error, such as loss of portable and other data storage devices or misconfiguration of software or hardware resulting in inadvertent exposure of personal, sensitive, confidential or proprietary information. Like many companies, we are subject to social engineering attacks such as regular phishing email campaigns directed at our employees that can result in malware infections and data loss. Although these incidents have resulted in data loss and other damages, to date, they have not had a material adverse effect on our business or operations. In the future, these types of incidents could result in personal, sensitive, confidential or proprietary information being lost or stolen, surreptitiously modified, rendered inaccessible for any period of time, or maliciously made public, including client, employee or Company data, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the event of a cyberattack, we might have to take our systems offline, which could interfere with services to our clients or damage our reputation. We also may be unable to detect an incident, assess its severity or impact, or appropriately respond in a timely manner. In addition, our liability insurance, which includes cyber insurance, may not be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to security breaches, cyberattacks and other related data and system incidents. The costs to comply with, or our failure to comply with, U.S. and foreign laws related to privacy, data security and data protection, such as the E.U. General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and our reputation. Improper disclosure of confidential, personal, or proprietary data could result in regulatory scrutiny, legal and financial liability, or harm to our reputation. In operating our business and providing services and solutions to clients, particularly in our Consulting segment, we store and transfer sensitive employee and client data, including personal data, in and across multiple jurisdictions. We leverage systems and applications that are spread all over the world requiring us to regularly move data across national borders. As a result, we are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the United States, Europe and around the world regarding privacy, data protection, data security and cyber-security. These laws and regulations are continuously evolving and developing. Some of these laws and regulations are increasing the level of data handling restrictions, including rules on data localization, all of which could affect our operations and result in regulatory liability and high fines. In particular, high-profile security breaches at major companies continue to be disclosed regularly, which is leading to even greater regulatory scrutiny and fines at the highest levels they have ever been. The scope and interpretation of the laws that are or may be applicable to us are often uncertain and may be conflicting. For example, the GDPR, which became effective in May 2018, greatly increased the European Commission’s jurisdictional reach of its laws and added a broad array of requirements for handling personal data, such as the public disclosure of data breaches, privacy impact assessments, data portability and the appointment of data protection officers in some cases. In the U.S., the CCPA came into effect in January 2019 and introduced several new concepts to local privacy requirements, including increased transparency and rights such as access and deletion and an ability to opt out of the “sale” of personal information. Despite a proliferation of regulatory guidance papers, much remains unclear with respect to how to interpret and implement the GDPR and the CCPA, and that lack of clarity could result in potential liability for our failure to meet our obligations under the GDPR and the CCPA. Given the breadth and depth of changes in data protection obligations, including classifying data and committing to a range of administrative, technical and physical controls to protect data and enable data transfers outside of the E.U., our compliance with laws such as the GDPR and the CCPA will continue to require time, resources and review of the technology and systems we use. Further, the European Union Court of Justice's "Schrems II" decision and Brexit have created uncertainty with regard to the future of the flow of personal information between the United Kingdom and the E.U., respectively, and that uncertainty may impair our ability to offer our existing and planned products and services or increase our cost of doing business. Following the implementation of the GDPR, other jurisdictions have sought to amend, or propose legislation to amend, their existing data protection laws to align with the requirements of the GDPR with 20 the aim of obtaining an adequate level of data protection to facilitate the transfer of personal data to most jurisdictions from the E.U. Accordingly, the challenges we face in the E.U. will likely also apply to other jurisdictions that adopt laws similar to the GDPR or regulatory frameworks of equivalent complexity. For example, Brazil has enacted its general data protection law, the Lei Geral de Proteção de Dados Pessoais, which came into effect in August 2020, China has proposed a new comprehensive privacy law, India is considering a new privacy law, Canada is proposing significant changes to their federal privacy law and Japan has adopted sweeping changes to its privacy law. In some cases, including China and India, the laws include data localization elements that will require that certain personal data stay within their borders. Looking at the U.S. following the passage of the CCPA, California recently approved a ballot measure that enacts the California Privacy Rights Act, making extensive modifications to the CCPA. Additionally, several other states have introduced privacy bills, some more comprehensive than the CCPA. There is also continued legislative interest in passing a federal privacy law which is likely to accelerate under the new U.S. administration. In addition to data protection laws, countries and states in the U.S. are enacting cybersecurity laws and regulations. For example, the New York State Department of Financial Services issued in 2017 cybersecurity regulations which imposed an array of detailed security measures on covered entities. These requirements were phased in and the last of them came into effect on March 1, 2019. All of these evolving compliance and operational requirements impose significant costs that are likely to increase over time, may divert resources from other initiatives and projects and could restrict the way services involving data are offered, all of which may adversely affect our results of operations. Many statutory requirements, both in the United States and abroad, include obligations for companies to notify individuals of security breaches involving certain personal information, which could result from breaches experienced by us or our vendors. In addition to government regulation, privacy advocates and industry groups have and may in the future propose self-regulatory standards from time to time. These and other industry standards may legally or contractually apply to us, or we may elect to comply with such standards. We expect that there will continue to be new proposed laws and regulations concerning data privacy and security, and we cannot yet determine the impact such future laws, regulations and standards may have on our business. Furthermore, enforcement actions and investigations by regulatory authorities related to data security incidents and privacy violations, including a recent focus on website “cookies” compliance in some countries, continue to increase. Privacy violations, including unauthorized disclosure or transfer of sensitive or confidential client or Company data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, by the Company, our vendors or other parties with whom we do business (if they fail to meet the standards we impose) could damage our reputation and subject us to significant litigation, monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and criminal prosecution in one or more jurisdictions. Given the complexity of operationalizing the various privacy laws such as the GDPR and the CCPA, the maturity level of proposed compliance frameworks and the continued lack of clarity on how to implement their requirements, we and our clients are at risk of enforcement actions taken by E.U. and other data protection authorities or litigation from consumer advocacy groups acting on behalf of data subjects. We may not be able to respond quickly or effectively to regulatory, legislative and other developments, and these changes may in turn impair our ability to offer our existing or planned products and services and increase our cost of doing business. Legal and Regulatory Risks We are subject to significant uninsured exposures arising from errors and omissions, breach of fiduciary duty and other claims. Our businesses provide numerous professional services, including the placement of insurance and the provision of consulting, investment advisory and actuarial services, to clients around the world. As a result, the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to a significant number of errors and omissions, breach of fiduciary duty and similar claims, which we refer to collectively as "E&O claims." In our Risk and Insurance Services segment, such claims include allegations of damages arising from our failure to assess clients’ risks, advise clients, place coverage or notify insurers of potential claims on behalf of clients in accordance with our obligations to them. For example, these claims may include allegations related to losses incurred by policyholders arising from the COVID-19 pandemic, or losses from 21 cyberattacks associated with policies where cyber risk was not specifically included or excluded in policies, commonly referred to as “silent cyber.” In our Consulting segment, where we increasingly act in a fiduciary capacity through our investments business, such claims could include allegations of damages arising from the provision of consulting, investments, actuarial, pension administration and other services. We may also be exposed to claims related to assets or solutions offered by the Consulting segment in complement to its traditional consulting services. These Consulting segment services frequently involve complex calculations and other analysis, including (i) making assumptions about, and preparing estimates concerning, contingent future events, (ii) drafting and interpreting complex documentation governing pension plans, (iii) calculating benefits within complex pension structures, (iv) providing individual financial planning advice including investment advice and advice relating to cashing out of defined benefit pension plans, (v) providing investment advice, including guidance on asset allocation and investment strategy, and (vi) managing client assets, including the selection of investment managers and implementation of the client’s investment policy. We provide these services to a broad client base, including clients in the public sector for our investment services. Matters often relate to services provided by the Company dating back many years. Such claims may subject us to significant liability for monetary damages, including punitive and treble damages, negative publicity and reputational harm, and may divert personnel and management resources. We may be unable to effectively limit our potential liability in certain jurisdictions, including through insurance, or in connection with certain types of claims, particularly those concerning claims of a breach of fiduciary duty. In establishing liabilities for E&O claims under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP"), the Company uses case level reviews by inside and outside counsel, actuarial analysis by Oliver Wyman, a subsidiary of the Company, and other methods to estimate potential losses. A liability is established when a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. The liability is assessed quarterly and adjusted as developments warrant. In many cases, the Company has not recorded a liability, other than for legal fees to defend the claim, because we are unable, at the present time, to make a determination that a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. Given the judgment involved in estimating and establishing liabilities in accordance with U.S. GAAP, as well as the unpredictability of E&O claims and the litigation that can flow from them, it is possible that an adverse outcome in a particular matter could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. We cannot guarantee that we are or will be in compliance with all current and potentially applicable U.S. federal and state or foreign laws and regulations, and actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our activities are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of the United States and its various states, the United Kingdom, the European Union and its member states, and the other jurisdictions in which we operate. For example, we are subject to regulation by agencies such as the Securities and Exchange Commission, FINRA and state insurance regulators in the United States, the FCA and the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) in the United Kingdom, and the European Commission in the European Union, as further described above under Part I, Item 1 - Business (Regulation) of this report. We are also subject to trade sanctions laws relating to countries such as Cuba, Crimea, Iran, North Korea, Russia, Syria and Venezuela, and anti-corruption laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Anti-Bribery Act. We are subject to numerous other laws on matters as diverse as internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, securities regulation, data privacy and protection, cybersecurity, taxation, anti-trust and competition, immigration, wage-and-hour standards and employment and labor relations. The U.S. and foreign laws and regulations that apply to our operations are complex and may change rapidly, and our efforts to comply and keep up with them require significant resources. In some cases, these laws and regulations may decrease the need for our services, increase our costs, negatively impact our revenues or impose operational limitations on our business, including on the products and services we may offer or on the amount or type of compensation we may collect. In particular, changes at regulatory agencies in the U.S. occur through policy and personnel changes following elections, which often leads to changes involving the level of oversight and focus on businesses and certain industries, in particular financial services. Accordingly, the expectation is that there will be increased regulatory scrutiny and enforcement action under the new administration. 22 While we attempt to comply with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we, our employees, our consultants and our contractors and other agents are in full compliance with such laws and regulations or interpretations at all times, or that we will be able to comply with any future laws or regulations. If we fail to comply or are accused of failing to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including those referred to above, we may become subject to investigations, criminal penalties, civil remedies or other consequences, including fines, injunctions, loss of an operating license or approval, increased scrutiny or oversight by regulatory authorities, the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in a particular business or redress to clients or other parties, and we may become exposed to negative publicity or reputational damage. Moreover, our failure to comply with laws or regulations in one jurisdiction may result in increased regulatory scrutiny by other regulatory agencies in that jurisdiction or regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions. These inquiries consume significant management attention, and the cost of compliance and the consequences of failing to be in compliance could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may be responsible for the legal and regulatory liabilities of companies that we acquire. In particular, upon the consummation of the acquisition of JLT, the Company assumed the legal liabilities and became responsible for JLT’s litigation and regulatory exposures as of April 1, 2019. In the fourth quarter 2020, the Company recorded a $161 million provision for a legacy JLT matter related to an FCA review of the suitability of financial advice to individuals for defined benefit pension transfers. Additional information regarding certain ongoing investigations and certain other legal and regulatory proceedings is set forth in Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included under Part II, Item 8 of this report. In most jurisdictions, government regulatory authorities have the power to interpret and amend or repeal applicable laws and regulations, and have discretion to grant, renew and revoke the various licenses and approvals we need to conduct our activities. Such authorities may require the Company to incur substantial costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations. In some areas of our businesses, we act on the basis of our own or the industry's interpretations of applicable laws or regulations, which may conflict from state to state or country to country. In the event those interpretations eventually prove different from the interpretations of regulatory authorities, we may be penalized or precluded from carrying on our previous activities. Moreover, the laws and regulations to which we are subject may conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we operate, which increases the likelihood of our businesses being non-compliant in one or more jurisdictions. Our business or reputation could be harmed by our reliance on third-party providers or introducers. We currently utilize the services of hundreds of third-party providers to meet the needs of our clients around the world. There is a risk that our third-party providers or introducers engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies or violate applicable laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Anti-Bribery Act. Competitive Risks The loss of members of our senior management team or other key colleagues could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely upon the contributions of our senior management team to establish and implement our business strategy and to manage the future growth of our business. The loss of any of the senior management team could limit our ability to successfully execute our business strategy or adversely affect our ability to retain existing and attract new clients. Moreover, we could be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for the succession of members of our senior management team. Across all of our businesses, our colleagues are critical to developing and retaining client relationships as well as performing the services on which our revenues are earned. It is therefore important for us to attract, incentivize and retain significant revenue-producing employees and the key managerial and other professionals who support them. We face numerous challenges in this regard, including the intense competition for talent, the general mobility of colleagues and fostering a diverse and inclusive workplace. 23 Losing colleagues who manage or support substantial client relationships or possess substantial experience or expertise could adversely affect our ability to secure and complete client engagements, which could adversely affect our results of operations. And, subject to applicable enforceable restrictive covenants, if a key employee were to join an existing competitor or form a competing company, some of our clients could choose to use the services of that competitor instead of our services. Failure to maintain our corporate culture could damage our reputation. We strive to foster a culture in which our colleagues act with integrity and feel comfortable speaking up about potential misconduct. We are a people business, and our ability to attract and retain colleagues and clients is dependent upon our commitment to a diverse and inclusive workplace, trustworthiness, ethical business practices and other qualities. Our colleagues are the cornerstone of this culture, and acts of misconduct by any colleague, and particularly by senior management, could erode trust and confidence and damage our reputation among existing and potential clients and other stakeholders. Increasing scrutiny and changing expectations from investors, clients and our colleagues with respect to our environmental, social and governance (ESG) practices may impose additional costs on us or expose us to new or additional risks. There is increased focus, including from governmental organizations, investors, colleagues and clients, on ESG issues such as environmental stewardship, climate change, diversity and inclusion, racial justice and workplace conduct. Negative public perception, adverse publicity or negative comments in social media could damage our reputation if we do not, or are not perceived to, adequately address these issues. Any harm to our reputation could impact colleague engagement and retention and the willingness of clients and our partners to do business with us. Moreover, as we work to align with the recommendations of the Financial Stability Board's Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, (TCFD), the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), and our own ESG assessments and priorities, we expect to expand our public disclosures in these areas, including providing additional metrics. These metrics, whether it be the standards we set for ourselves or a failure to meet these metrics, and any failure to achieve progress on our metrics on a timely basis, or at all, may negatively impact our reputation and our business. In addition, organizations that provide information to investors on corporate governance and related matters have developed ratings processes for evaluating companies on their approach to ESG matters, and unfavorable ratings of our company or our industries may lead to negative investor sentiment and the diversion of investment to other companies or industries. We face significant competitive pressures in each of our businesses, including from disintermediation, as our competitive landscape continues to evolve. As a global professional services firm, the Company faces competition in each of its businesses, and the competitive landscape continues to change and evolve. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a variety of factors, including the quality and expertise of our colleagues, our geographic reach, the sophistication and quality of our services, our pricing relative to competitors, our clients’ ability to self-insure or use internal resources instead of consultants, and our ability to respond to changes in client demand and industry conditions. Some of our competitors may have greater financial resources, or may be better positioned to respond to technological and other changes in the industries we serve, and they may be able to compete more effectively. If we are unable to respond successfully to the changing conditions we face, our businesses, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely impacted. Across our Risk and Insurance Services segment, we operate in a variety of markets and face different competitive landscapes.  In addition to the challenges posed by capital market alternatives to traditional insurance and reinsurance, we compete against a wide range of other insurance and reinsurance brokerage and risk advisory firms that operate on a global, regional, national or local scale for both client business and employee talent. In recent years, private equity sponsors have invested tens of billions of dollars into the insurance brokerage sector, transforming existing players and creating new ones to compete with large brokers. We also compete with insurance and reinsurance companies that market and service their insurance products directly to consumers and without the assistance of brokers or other market intermediaries, and with various other companies that provide risk-related services or alternatives 24 to traditional brokerage services, including those that rely almost exclusively on technological solutions or platforms. This competition is intensified by an often "syndicated" or "distributed" approach to the purchase of insurance and reinsurance brokerage services, where a client engages multiple brokers to service different portions of the client's account. In addition, third party capital providers have entered the insurance and reinsurance risk transfer market offering products and capital directly to our clients that serve as substitutes for traditional insurance. In our Consulting segment, we compete for business with numerous consulting firms and similar organizations, many of whom also provide, or are affiliated with firms that provide, accounting, information systems, technology and financial services. Such competitors may be able to offer more comprehensive products and services to potential clients, which may give them a competitive advantage. In addition, companies in the industries that we serve may seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other companies. If two or more of our current clients merge, or consolidate or combine their operations, it may decrease the amount of work that we perform for these clients. We rely on a large number of vendors and other third parties to perform key functions of our business operations and to provide services to our clients. These vendors and third parties may act in ways that could harm our business. We rely on a large number of vendors and other third parties, and in some cases subcontractors, to provide services, data and information such as technology, information security, funds transfers, business process management, and administration and support functions that are critical to the operations of our business. These third parties include correspondents, agents and other brokers and intermediaries, insurance markets, data providers, plan trustees, payroll service providers, software and system vendors, health plan providers, investment managers, risk modeling providers, and providers of human resource functions, such as recruiters. Many of these providers are located outside the U.S., which exposes us to business disruptions and political risks inherent when conducting business outside of the U.S. As we do not fully control the actions of these third parties, we are subject to the risk that their decisions or operations may adversely impact us and replacing these service providers could create significant delay in services or operations and additional expense. A failure by the third parties to (i) comply with service level agreements in a high quality and timely manner, particularly during periods of our peak demand for their services, (ii) maintain adequate internal controls that may impact our own financial reporting, or (iii) adequately maintain the confidentiality of any of our data or trade secrets or adequately protect or properly use other intellectual property to which they may have access, could result in economic and reputational harm to us. These third parties also face their own technology, operating, business and economic risks, and any significant failures by them, including the improper use or disclosure of our confidential client, employee, or Company information or failure to comply with applicable law, could cause harm to our reputation or otherwise expose us to liability. An interruption in or the cessation of service by any service provider as a result of systems failures, capacity constraints, non-compliance with legal, regulatory or contractual obligations, financial difficulties or for any other reason could disrupt our operations, impact our ability to offer certain products and services, and result in contractual or regulatory penalties, liability claims from clients or employees, damage to our reputation and harm to our business. Business Resiliency Risks Our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity or data recovery problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. If we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity event, such as an earthquake, hurricane, flood, terrorist attack, pandemic, protests or riots, security breach, cyberattack (including manipulating the control systems of critical infrastructure), power loss or telecommunications failure, our ability to operate will depend, in part, on the continued availability of our personnel, our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. In such an event, we could experience operational challenges that could have a material adverse effect on our business. The risk of business disruption is more pronounced in certain geographic areas, including major metropolitan centers, like New York or London, where we have significant operations and 25 approximately 3,300 and 5,000 colleagues in those respective locations, and in certain countries and regions in which we operate that are subject to higher potential threat of terrorist attacks or military conflicts. Our operations depend in particular upon our ability to protect our technology infrastructure against damage. If a business continuity event occurs, we could lose client or Company data or experience interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients, which could have a material adverse effect. Such risks have increased significantly due to extended remote work accommodations as a result of COVID-19. A cyberattack or other business continuity event affecting us or a key vendor or other third party could result in a significant and extended disruption in the functioning of our information technology systems or operations or our ability to recover data, requiring us to incur significant expense to address and remediate or otherwise resolve such issues. For example, hackers have increasingly targeted companies by attacking internet-connected industrial control and safety control systems. An extended outage could result in the loss of clients and a decline in our revenues. In the worst case, any manipulation of the control systems of critical infrastructure may even result in the loss of life. We regularly assess and take steps to improve our existing business continuity, disaster recovery and data recovery plans and key management succession. However, a disaster or other continuity event on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover from such an event, could materially interrupt our business operations and result in material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, damaged client relationships and legal liability. Our business disruption insurance may also not fully cover, in type or amount, the cost of a successful recovery in the event of such a disruption. Acquisitions and Dispositions Risks We face risks when we acquire businesses. We have a history of making acquisitions and investments, including a total of 132 in the period from 2013 to 2020. We may not be able to successfully integrate the businesses that we acquire into our own business, or achieve any expected cost savings or synergies from the integration of such businesses. Subject to standard contractual protections, we may also be responsible for legacy liabilities of companies that we acquire. For example, upon the consummation of the acquisition of JLT, the Company assumed the legal liabilities and became responsible for JLT’s litigation and regulatory exposures as of April 1, 2019. In addition, if in the future the performance of our reporting units or an acquired business varies from our projections or assumptions, or estimates about future profitability of our reporting units or an acquired business change, the estimated fair value of our reporting units or an acquired business could change materially and could result in an impairment of goodwill and other acquisition-related intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet or in adjustments in contingent payment amounts. Given the significant size of the Company's goodwill and intangible assets, an impairment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any given period. We expect that acquisitions will continue to be a key part of our business strategy. Our success in this regard will depend on our ability to identify and compete for appropriate acquisition candidates and to finance and complete the transactions we decide to pursue on favorable terms with positive results. When we dispose of businesses, we may continue to be subject to certain liabilities of that business after its disposition relating to the prior period of our ownership and may not be able to negotiate for limitations on those liabilities. We are also subject to the risk that the sales price is less than the amount reflected on our balance sheet. Financial Risks If we are unable to collect our receivables, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Our business depends on our ability to obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for the work we perform. As of December 31, 2020, our receivables for our commissions and fees were approximately $4.7 billion, or approximately one-quarter of our total annual revenues, and portions of our receivables are increasingly concentrated in certain businesses and geographies. 26 Macroeconomic or political conditions, such as the impact from COVID-19, could result in financial difficulties for our clients, which could cause clients to delay payments to us, request modifications to their payment arrangements that could increase our receivables balance or default on their payment obligations to us. We may not be able to obtain sufficient financing on favorable terms. The maintenance and growth of our business, including our ability to finance acquisitions, the payment of dividends and our ability to make share repurchases rely on our access to capital, which depends in large part on cash flow generated by our business and the availability of equity and debt financing. Certain of our businesses such as GC Securities, a division of MMC Securities, LLC and MMC Securities (Europe) Limited also rely on financings by the Company to fund the underwriting of their client's debt and equity capital raising transactions. We incurred significant debt to finance the JLT Transaction, and there can be no assurance that our operations will generate sufficient positive cash flow to finance all of our capital needs or that we will be able to obtain equity or debt financing on favorable terms. In addition, our ability to obtain financing will depend in part upon prevailing conditions in credit and capital markets, which are beyond our control. Our defined benefit pension plan obligations could cause the Company's financial position, earnings and cash flows to fluctuate. Our defined benefit pension obligations and the assets set aside to fund those obligations are sensitive to certain changes in the financial markets. Any such changes may result in increased pension expense or additional cash payments to fund these plans. The Company has significant defined benefit pension obligations to its current and former employees, including obligations assumed as part of the JLT Transaction, totaling approximately $19.9 billion, and related plan assets of approximately $19.1 billion, at December 31, 2020 on a U.S. GAAP basi s. As part of the JLT Transaction, the Company assumed responsibility for a number of pension plans throughout the world, with $305 million of net pension liabilities as of December 31, 2020 ($1,124 million in liabilities and $819 million of plan assets as of December 31, 2020). The Company's policy for funding its defined benefit pension plans is to contribute amounts at least sufficient to meet the funding requirements set forth by law. In the United States, contributions to these plans are based on ERISA guidelines. Outside the United States, contributions are generally based on statutory requirements and local funding practices, which may differ from measurements under U.S. GAAP. In the U.K., for example, the assumptions used to determine pension contributions are the result of legally-prescribed negotiations between the Company and the plans' trustees. Currently, the use of these assumptions results in a lower funded status than determined under U.S. GAAP and may result in contributions irrespective of the U.S. GAAP funded status. The financial calculations relating to our defined benefit pension plans are complex. Pension plan assets could decrease as the result of poor future asset performance. In addition, the estimated return on plan assets would likely be impacted by changes in the interest rate environment and other factors, including equity valuations, since these factors reflect the starting point used in the Company’s projection models. For example a reduction in interest rates may result in a reduction in the estimated return on plan assets. Also, pension plan liabilities, periodic pension expense and future funding amounts could increase as a result of a decline in the interest rates we use to discount our pension liabilities, longer lifespans than those reflected in our mortality assumptions, changes in investment markets that result in lower expected returns on assets, actual investment return that is less than the expected return on assets, adverse changes in laws or regulations and other variables. While we have taken steps to mitigate the impact of pension volatility on our earnings and cash funding requirements, these strategies may not be successful. Accordingly, given the magnitude of our worldwide pension plans, variations in or reassessment of the preceding or other factors or potential miscalculations relating to our defined benefit pension plans could cause significant fluctuation from year to year in our earnings and cash flow, as well as our pension plan assets, liabilities and equity, and may result in increased levels of contributions to our pension plans. Our significant non-U.S. operations expose us to exchange rate fluctuations and various risks that could impact our business. 27 Approximately 53% of our total revenue reported in 2020 was from business outside of the United States. We are subject to exchange rate movement because we must translate the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars and also because some of our subsidiaries receive revenue other than in their functional currencies. Exchange rate movements may change over time, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows reported in U.S. dollars. For additional discussion, see "Market Risk and Credit Risk-Foreign Currency Risk" in Part II, Item 7A ("Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk") of this report. Our quarterly revenues and profitability may fluctuate significantly. Quarterly variations in revenues and operating results may occur due to several factors. These include: • the number of client engagements during a quarter; • the possibility that clients may decide to delay or terminate a current or anticipated project as a result of factors unrelated to our work product or progress; • fluctuations in hiring and utilization rates and clients' ability to terminate engagements without penalty; • potential limitations on the clients or industries we serve resulting from increased regulation or changing stakeholder expectations on ESG issues; • the impact of changes in accounting standards or in our accounting estimates or assumptions; • the impact on us or our clients of changes in legislation, regulation and legal guidance or interpretations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, in particular in the U.S. as a result of the change in presidential administrations; • seasonality due to the impact of regulatory deadlines, policy renewals and other timing factors to which our clients are subject; • the success of our acquisitions or investments; • macroeconomic factors such as changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and global securities markets, particularly in the case of Mercer, where fees in its investments business and certain other business lines are derived from the value of assets under management or administration; and • general economic conditions, including factors beyond our control affecting economic conditions such as COVID-19 and other global health crisis or pandemics, severe weather, climate change, geopolitical unrest such as protests and riots or other catastrophic events, since our results of operations are directly affected by the levels of business activity of our clients, which in turn are affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve. A significant portion of our total operating expenses is relatively fixed in the short term. Therefore, a variation in the number of client assignments or in the timing of the initiation or the completion of client assignments can cause significant variations in quarterly operating results for these businesses. Credit rating downgrades would increase our financing costs and could subject us to operational risk. Currently, the Company's senior debt is rated A- by S&P and Baa1 by Moody's. The Company carries a Stable outlook with S&P and a Negative outlook with Moody's. If we need to raise capital in the future (for example, in order to maintain adequate liquidity, fund maturing debt obligations or finance acquisitions or other initiatives), credit rating downgrades would increase our financing costs, and could limit our access to financing sources. We would also face the risk of a credit rating downgrade if we do not retire or refinance the debt to levels acceptable to the credit rating agencies in a timely manner. Further, a downgrade to a rating below investment-grade could result in greater operational risks through increased operating costs and increased competitive pressures. We have significantly increased our debt as a result of the JLT acquisition, which could adversely affect our financial flexibility. 28 As of December 31, 2020, we had total consolidated debt outstanding of approximately $11.3 billion. In 2019 alone, we incurre d $6.5 billi on of additional debt to finance the JLT acquisition. The level of debt outstanding could adversely affect our financial flexibility by reducing our cash flows and our ability to use cash from operations for other purposes, including working capital, dividends to shareholders, share repurchases, acquisitions, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. In addition, we are subject to risks that, at the time any of our outstanding debt matures, we will not be able to retire or refinance the debt on terms that are acceptable to us. The current U.S. tax regime makes our results more difficult to predict. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate in the future as a result of the current U.S. tax regime enacted as part of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "TCJA") and the continuing issuance of interpretive guidance related to the TCJA. The TCJA included significant changes in U.S. income tax law that has a meaningful impact on our provision for income taxes and requires significant judgments and estimates in interpretation and calculations. The enacted tax legislation included, among other provisions, limitations on the deductibility of net interest, a tax on Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income ("GILTI"), and the Base Erosion and Anti-Abuse Tax ("BEAT"). Given the significant complexity of the rules, and the potential for additional guidance from U.S. Treasury, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other regulatory authorities, recognized impacts in future periods could be significantly different from our current estimates. Such uncertainty may also result in increased scrutiny from, or disagreements with, tax authorities. In addition, the change in the U.S. presidential administrations in January 2021 may increase the chance for legislative changes to the TCJA provisions. In particular, the Biden Administration has proposed changes to the U.S. statutory tax rate and GILTI which would increase the impact of the provision on our results. As a U.S.-domiciled company, any such increases would have a disproportionate impact on us compared to our foreign-based competitors. Global Operations We are exposed to multiple risks associated with the global nature of our operations. We conduct business globally. In 2020, approximately 53% of the Company's total revenue was generated from operations outside the United States, and over one-half of our employees were located outside the United States. The JLT Transaction significantly expanded our non-U.S. operations in jurisdictions such as the U.K., Asia, South America and Australia, and we expect to expand our non-U.S. operations further. The geographic breadth of our activities subjects us to significant legal, economic, operational, market, compliance and reputational risks. These include, among others, risks relating to: • economic and political conditions in the countries in which we operate; • client concentration in certain high-growth countries in which we operate; • the length of payment cycles and potential difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • unexpected increases in taxes or changes in U.S. or foreign tax laws, rulings, policies or related legal and regulatory interpretations, including recent international initiatives to require multinational enterprises, like ours, to report profitability on a country-by-country basis, which could increase scrutiny by, or cause disagreements with, foreign tax authorities and the potential imposition of new global minimum tax; • potential transfer pricing-related tax exposures that may result from the flow of funds among our subsidiaries and affiliates in the various jurisdictions in which we operate, or permanent establishments created due to colleagues traveling to and doing work in countries where the company has no presence and which are not properly compensated through transfer pricing; • our ability to obtain dividends or repatriate funds from our non-U.S. subsidiaries, including as a result of the imposition of currency controls and other government restrictions on repatriation in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and the imposition of withholding and other taxes on such payments; • potential conflicts of interest that may arise as we expand the scope of our businesses and our client base; 29 • international hostilities, international trade disputes, terrorist activities, natural disasters, pandemics, and infrastructure disruptions; • local investment or other financial restrictions that foreign governments may impose; • potential lawsuits, investigations, market studies, reviews or other activity by foreign regulatory or law enforcement authorities or legislatively appointed commissions, which may result in potential modifications to our businesses, related private litigation or increased scrutiny from U.S. or other regulators; • potential costs and difficulties in complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations (including tax systems) administered by foreign government agencies, some of which may conflict with U.S. or other sources of law; • potential costs and difficulties in complying, or monitoring compliance, with foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that are applicable to our operations abroad, including trade sanctions laws relating to countries such as Cuba, Crimea, Iran, North Korea, Russia, Syria and Venezuela and anti-corruption laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act 2010; • limitations or restrictions that foreign or U.S. governments and regulators may impose on the products or services we sell, the methods by which we sell our products and services and the manner in which and the amounts we are compensated; • potential limitations or difficulties in protecting our intellectual property in various foreign jurisdictions; • limitations that foreign governments may impose on the conversion of currency or the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-U.S. subsidiaries; • engaging and relying on third parties to perform services on behalf of the Company; and • potential difficulties in monitoring employees in geographically dispersed locations. RISKS RELATING TO OUR RISK AND INSURANCE SERVICES SEGMENT Our Risk and Insurance Services segment, conducted through Marsh and Guy Carpenter, represented 60% of the Company's total revenue in 2020. Our business in this segment is subject to particular risks. Results in our Risk and Insurance Services segment may be adversely affected by a general decline in economic activity. Demand for many types of insurance and reinsurance generally rises or falls as economic growth expands or slows. This dynamic affects the level of commissions and fees generated by Marsh and Guy Carpenter. To the extent our clients become adversely affected by declining business conditions, they may choose to limit their purchases of insurance and reinsurance coverage, as applicable, which would inhibit our ability to generate commission revenue and other revenue based on premiums placed by us. Also, the insurance they seek to obtain through us may be impacted by changes in their assets, property values, sales or number of employees, which may reduce our commission revenue, and they may decide not to purchase our risk advisory or other services, which would inhibit our ability to generate fee revenue. Moreover, insolvencies and combinations associated with an economic downturn, especially insolvencies and combinations in the insurance industry, could adversely affect our brokerage business through the loss of clients or by limiting our ability to place insurance and reinsurance business, as well as our revenues from insurers. Guy Carpenter is especially susceptible to this risk given the limited number of insurance company clients and reinsurers in the marketplace. Volatility or declines in premiums and other market trends may significantly impede our ability to grow revenues and profitability. A significant portion of our Risk and Insurance Services revenue consists of commissions paid to us out of the premiums that insurers and reinsurers charge our clients for coverage. We do not determine the insurance premiums on which our commissions are generally based. Our revenues and profitability are subject to change to the extent that premium rates fluctuate or trend in a particular direction. The potential 30 for changes in premium rates is significant, due to the normal cycles of pricing in the commercial insurance and reinsurance markets. As traditional insurance companies continue to rely on non-affiliated brokers or agents to generate premium, those insurance companies may seek to reduce their expenses by lowering their commission rates. The reduction of these commission rates, along with general volatility or declines in premiums, may significantly affect our revenue and profitability. Because we do not determine the timing or extent of premium pricing changes, it is difficult to accurately forecast our commission revenues, including whether they will significantly decline. As a result, we may have to adjust our plans for future acquisitions, capital expenditures, dividend payments, loan repayments and other expenditures to account for unexpected changes in revenues, and any decreases in premium rates may adversely affect the results of our operations. In addition to movements in premium rates, our ability to generate premium-based commission revenue may be challenged by disintermediation and the growing availability of alternative methods for clients to meet their risk-protection needs. This trend includes a greater willingness on the part of corporations to self-insure, the use of captive insurers, and the presence of capital markets-based solutions for traditional insurance and reinsurance needs. Further, the profitability of our Risk and Insurances Services segment depends in part on our ability to be compensated for the analytical services and other advice that we provide, including the consulting and analytics services that we provide to insurers. If we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate billing rates for all of our services, our margins and profitability could decline. Adverse legal developments and future regulations concerning how intermediaries are compensated by insurers or clients, as well as allegations of anti-competitive behavior or conflicts of interest more broadly, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The ways in which insurance intermediaries are compensated receive scrutiny from regulators in part because of the potential for anti-competitive behavior and conflicts of interest. The vast majority of the compensation that Marsh receives is in the form of retail fees and commissions that are paid by the client or paid from premium that is paid by the client. The amount of other compensation that we receive from insurance companies, separate from retail fees and commissions, has increased in the last several years, both on an underlying basis and through acquisition and represented approximately 5% of Marsh's revenue in 2020. This other compensation includes payment for (i) consulting and analytics services provided to insurers; (ii) administrative and other services provided to insurers (including services relating to the administration and management of quota shares, panels and other facilities); and (iii) contingent commissions, primarily at MMA and outside the U.S., paid by insurers based on factors such as volume or profitability. These other revenue streams present potential regulatory, litigation and reputational risks that may arise from alleged anti-competitive behavior or conflicts of interest, (including those arising from Guy Carpenter’s role as intermediary and advisor for insurance companies), and future changes in the regulatory environment may impact our ability to collect such revenue. Adverse regulatory, legal or other developments could have a material adverse effect on our business and expose the Company to negative publicity and reputational harm. RISKS RELATING TO OUR CONSULTING SEGMENT Our Consulting segment, conducted through Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group, represented 40% of our total revenue in 2020. Our businesses in this segment are subject to particular risks. Mercer’s Investments business is subject to a number of risks, including risks related to third-party investment managers, operational risk, conflicts of interest, asset performance and regulatory compliance, that, if realized, could result in significant damage to our business. Mercer’s Investments business provides clients with investment consulting and investment management services. As of December 31, 2020, Mercer and its global affiliates had assets under management of approximately $357 billion worldwide. In the investment consulting business, clients make and implement their own investment decisions based upon research prepared or advice provided by Mercer. In its investment management business, Mercer implements the client’s investment policy by engaging, overseeing and making changes to the third-party asset managers who determine which investments to 31 buy and sell. To effect implementation of a client’s investment policy, Mercer may utilize its "manager of managers" investment funds. Mercer’s Investments business is subject to a number of risks, including risks related to litigation, third-parties, our operations, conflicts of interest, asset performance and regulatory compliance and scrutiny, which could arise in connection with these offerings. For example, Mercer’s manager research or due diligence on an asset manager may fail to uncover material deficiencies or fraud that could result in investment losses to a client. There is a risk that Mercer will fail to properly implement a client’s investment policy or direction, which could cause an incorrect or untimely allocation of client assets among asset managers or strategies. Mercer may also be perceived as recommending certain asset managers to clients, or offering delegated solutions to an investment consulting client, solely to enhance its own compensation. Asset classes may perform poorly, or asset managers may underperform their benchmarks, due to poor market performance, a downturn in the global equity markets, negligence or other reasons, resulting in poor returns or loss of client capital. Changes in the value levels of equity, debt, real assets, commodities, foreign exchange or other asset markets, in particular as a result of a downturn in the global markets, may cause our assets under management, revenue and earnings to decline. These risks, if realized, could result in significant liability and damage our business. Revenues for the services provided by our Consulting segment may decline for various reasons, including as a result of changes in economic conditions, the value of equity, debt and other asset classes, our clients’ or an industry's financial condition or government regulation or an accelerated trend away from actively managed investments to passively managed investments. Global economic conditions, particularly the impact of COVID-19 may negatively impact businesses and financial institutions. Many of our clients, including financial institutions, corporations, government entities and pension plans, have reduced expenses, including amounts spent on consulting services, and used internal resources instead of consultants during difficult economic periods. The evolving needs and financial circumstances of our clients may reduce demand for our consulting services and could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. If the economy or markets in which we operate experience weakness or deteriorate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, some of Mercer's Investments business generate fees based upon the value of the clients’ assets under management or advisement. Changes in the value of equity, debt, currency, real estate, commodities or other asset classes could cause the value of assets under management or advisement, and the fees received by Mercer, to decline. Such changes could also cause clients to withdraw funds from Mercer’s Investments business in favor of other investment service providers. In either case, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Mercer’s Investments business also could be adversely affected by an accelerated shift away from actively managed investments to passively managed investments with associated lower fees. Further, revenue received by Mercer as investment manager to the majority of the Mercer-managed investment funds is reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP on a gross basis rather than a net basis, with sub-advisor fees reflected as an expense. Therefore, the reported revenue for these offerings does not fully reflect the amount of net revenue ultimately attributable to Mercer. Demand for many of Mercer's benefits services is affected by government regulation and tax laws, rulings, policies and interpretations, which drive our clients' needs for benefits-related services. Significant changes in government regulations affecting the value, use or delivery of benefits and human resources programs, including changes in regulations relating to health and welfare plans, defined contribution plans or defined benefit plans, may adversely affect the demand for or profitability of Mercer's services. Factors affecting defined benefit pension plans and the services we provide relating to those plans could adversely affect Mercer. Mercer currently provides corporate trustees, multi-employer and public clients with actuarial, consulting and administration services relating to defined benefit pension plans. The nature of our work is complex. Many clients, particularly in the public sector, have sizeable pension deficits and are subject to impact from volatility in the global stock markets and interest rate fluctuations. A number of Mercer's clients have frozen or curtailed their defined benefit plans and have moved to defined contribution plans resulting in reduced revenue for Mercer's retirement business. These developments and a continued or accelerated 32 rate of decline in revenues for our defined benefit pension plans business could adversely affect Mercer's business and operating results. In addition, our actuarial services involve numerous assumptions and estimates regarding future events, including interest rates used to discount future liabilities, estimated rates of return for a plan's assets, healthcare cost trends, salary projections and participants' life expectancies. Our consulting services involve the drafting and interpretation of trust deeds and other complex documentation governing pension plans. Our administration services include calculating benefits within complicated pension plan structures. Our investments services include investment advice and management relating to defined benefit pension plan assets intended to fund present and future benefit obligations. Clients dissatisfied with our services have brought, and may bring, significant claims against us, particularly in the United States and the United Kingdom. The profitability of our Consulting segment may decline if we are unable to achieve or maintain adequate utilization and pricing rates for our consultants. The profitability of our Consulting businesses depends in part on ensuring that our consultants maintain adequate utilization rates (i.e., the percentage of our consultants' working hours devoted to billable activities). Our utilization rates are affected by a number of factors, including: • our ability to transition consultants promptly from completed projects to new assignments, and to engage newly-hired consultants quickly in revenue-generating activities; • our ability to continually secure new business engagements, particularly because a portion of our work is project-based rather than recurring in nature; • our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain appropriate headcount in each of our geographies and workforces; • our ability to retain key colleagues and consulting professionals; • unanticipated changes in the scope of client engagements; • the potential for conflicts of interest that might require us to decline client engagements that we otherwise would have accepted; • our need to devote time and resources to sales, training, professional development and other non-billable activities; • the potential disruptive impact of acquisitions and dispositions; and • general economic conditions. If the utilization rate for our consulting professionals declines, our profit margin and profitability could decline. In addition, the profitability of our Consulting businesses depends in part on the prices we are able to charge for our services. The prices we charge are affected by a number of factors, including: • clients' perception of our ability to add value through our services; • market demand for the services we provide; • our ability to develop new services and the introduction of new services by competitors; • the pricing policies of our competitors; • the extent to which our clients develop in-house or other capabilities to perform the services that they might otherwise purchase from us; and • general economic conditions. If we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate billing rates for our services, our profit margin and profitability could decline.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

General Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries (the "Company") is a global professional services firm offering clients advice in the areas of risk, strategy and people. The Company’s 76,000 colleagues advise clients in over 130 countries. With annual revenue over $17 billion, the Company helps clients navigate an increasingly dynamic and complex environment through four market-leading businesses. Marsh advises individual and commercial clients of all sizes on insurance broking and innovative risk management solutions. Guy Carpenter develops advanced risk, reinsurance and capital strategies that help clients grow profitably and pursue emerging opportunities. Mercer delivers advice and technology-driven solutions that help organizations redefine the world of work, reshape retirement and investment outcomes, and unlock health and well being for a changing workforce. Oliver Wyman Group serves as critical strategic, economic and brand advisor to private sector and governmental clients. The Company conducts business through two segments: • Risk and Insurance Services includes risk management activities (risk advice, risk transfer and risk control and mitigation solutions) as well as insurance and reinsurance broking and services. The Company conducts business in this segment through Marsh and Guy Carpenter. • Consulting includes health, wealth and career consulting services and products, and specialized management, economic and brand consulting services. The Company conducts business in this segment through Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group. We describe the primary sources of revenue and categories of expense for each segment below, in our discussion of segment financial results. A reconciliation of segment operating income to total operating income is included in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 in this report. Acquisitions and dispositions impacting the Risk and Insurance Services and Consulting segments are discussed in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. For information on fiscal 2018 results and similar comparisons, see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019. This MD&A contains forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See "Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements" at the outset of this report. Business Update Related To COVID-19 In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the Coronavirus (COVID-19) a pandemic. The pandemic has impacted essentially every geography in which the Company operates. Governments implemented various restrictions around the world, including closure of non-essential businesses, travel, shelter-in-place requirements for citizens and other restrictions. The Company has taken a number of precautionary steps to safeguard its businesses and colleagues from COVID-19, including implementing travel restrictions, arranging work from home capabilities and flexible work policies. In the second and third quarters of 2020, the Company began re-opening offices in various locations around the world, while ensuring that it continued to adhere to guidelines and orders issued by national, state and local governments. The timing of additional office re-openings will vary based on the conditions and restrictions in each location. In the fourth quarter, there was a surge in COVID-19 infections in many parts of the world, leading to renewed lock-downs and increased government restrictions. The safety and well-being of our colleagues continues to be our first priority. Several vaccines have been or are in various stages of approval. However, the speed of distribution and the impact on colleagues' ability to return to the office remains uncertain. The vast majority of the Company’s colleagues have continued and will continue working in a remote work environment for most of 2021. The Company expects it will continue its ability to service clients effectively while colleagues remain in a remote work environment. 37 For the year ended December 31, 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic had an adverse impact on the Company’s revenue growth, primarily in our businesses that are discretionary in nature, which was partly mitigated through disciplined expense management by implementing restrictions on travel and other cost containment measures. However, the ultimate extent of the COVID-19 impact to the Company will depend on numerous evolving factors and future developments that it is not able to predict. Factors that could adversely affect the Company’s financial statements related to the financial and operational impact of COVID-19 are outlined in the "Risk Factors” section of this report. Acquisition of JLT On April 1, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition (the "Transaction") of all of the outstanding shares of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc ("JLT"), a public company organized under the laws of England and Wales. In accordance with the terms of the Transaction, JLT shareholders received £19.15 in cash for each JLT share, which valued JLT’s existing share capital at approximately £4.3 billion (or approximately $5.6 billion based on the exchange rate of U.S. $1.31:£1) on the Transaction closing date. As of December 31, 2020, the Company has substantially integrated JLT into all of its business operations. After the acquisition of JLT, the Company assumed the legal liabilities of JLT’s litigation and regulatory exposures as of April 1, 2019. Please see the "Risk Factors" section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for risks associated with the acquisition and Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements which discusses certain errors and omission matters related to the acquisition. JLT's results of operations for the period April 1, 2019 through December 31, 2019 are included in the Company’s results of operations for 2019. In accordance with applicable accounting guidance, JLT's results of operations for the period January 1 through March 31, 2019 and for the year ended 2018 are not included in the Company's results of operations and therefore, affect comparability. The Company’s results for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 were impacted by JLT related acquisition, restructuring and integration costs as well as legacy MMC restructuring programs as discussed in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. Consolidated Results of Operations Consolidated operating income was $3.1 billion in 2020 compared with $2.7 billion in 2019, reflecting the impact of a 3% increase in revenue and an increase in expenses of 1%. On an underlying basis, revenue increased 1%, reflecting an increase of 3% in Risk & Insurance Services offset by a decrease in Consulting of 2%. On an underlying basis, expenses decreased 2% , reflecting a decrease in JLT 38 integration and restructuring and acquisition-related costs and savings realized from the completion of integration efforts to date. The expense decrease also reflects lower travel and entertainment, meeting costs and outside services resulting from the Company’s restrictions on travel and cost containment measures taken in light of COVID-19 and lower expenses recoverable from clients. These decreases were partly offset by higher incentive compensation, severance and a JLT legacy E&O provision of $161 million recorded in 2020, which is discussed in Note 16 of the consolidated financial statements. Income before income taxes increased 14% to $2.8 billion as compared to $2.4 billion in 2019, reflecting the change in operating income discussed in the preceding paragraph, partially offset by lower investment income. Diluted earnings per share increased 16% to $3.94 in 2020 compared with $3.41 in 2019. This increase is a result of the factors discussed above, and a lower effective tax rate in 2020. Risk and Insurance Services operating income increased $513 million, or 28%, in 2020 compared with 2019. Revenue increased 8%, reflecting increases of 3% on an underlying basis and 1% from acquisitions, partly offset by a 1% decrease from the impact of foreign currency translation. Expense increased 3% reflecting decreases of 2% on an underlying basis and 1% from the impact of foreign currency translation, partly offset by an increase of 2% from acquisitions. The decrease in underlying expenses is primarily due to lower JLT integration, restructuring and acquisition related costs and savings realized from the completion of integration efforts to date. The decrease also reflects lower travel and entertainment and meeting costs resulting from the Company’s restrictions on travel and cost containment measures taken in light of COVID-19, partly offset by higher severance. Consulting operating income decreased $216 million, or 18%, to $1.0 billion in 2020 compared with 2019, reflecting the impact of a decrease in revenue of 2% and an increase in expense of 1%. Revenue decreased 2% on an underlying basis and 1% from the impact of dispositions. On an underlying basis, expense increased 1% primarily due to a JLT legacy E&O provision of $161 million recorded in 2020, higher JLT integration and restructuring related costs as well as higher severance, partly offset by lower travel, entertainment and meeting costs resulting from the Company’s restrictions on travel and cost containment measures taken in light of COVID-19 and lower expenses recoverable from clients. The following chart summarizes the activity related to the restructuring and noteworthy items discussed in more detail below: 39 In 2020, 2019 and 2018, the Company’s results of operations and earnings per share were impacted by the following items: • Restructuring costs, excluding JLT: Includes severance, adjustments to restructuring liabilities for future rent under non-cancellable leases and other real estate exit costs, and restructuring costs related to the integration of recent acquisitions. These costs are discussed in more detail in Note 14 of the consolidated financial statements. • JLT integration and restructuring costs: Includes severance, lease related exit costs as well as consulting costs from the JLT Transaction. These costs are discussed in more detail in Note 14 of the consolidated financial statements. • JLT acquisition related costs: Includes advisor fees and stamp duty taxes related to the closing of the JLT Transaction and retention costs. Also includes the loss on the sale of JLT's aerospace business, which is included in revenue. • JLT legacy E&O provision: In 2020, reflects a provision for a legacy JLT E&O relating to suitability of financial advice provided to individuals for defined benefit pension transfers. This provision is discussed in more detail in Note 16 of the consolidated financial statements. • Change in fair value of acquisition related derivatives: In connection with the JLT Transaction, to hedge the risk of appreciation of the GBP-denominated purchase price relative to the U.S. dollar, in September 2018, the Company entered into a deal contingent foreign exchange contract (the "FX Contract") to, solely upon consummation of the JLT Transaction, purchase £5.2 billion and sell a corresponding amount of U.S. dollars at a contracted exchange rate. The FX Contract is discussed in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. An unrealized loss of $325 million related to the fair value changes to this derivative was recognized in the consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2018, largely due to the depreciation of the GBP from September 2018. In 2019, the Company recorded a gain of $31 million upon final settlement of the FX Contract. In addition, to hedge the economic risk of increases in interest rates prior to its issuance of senior notes in January 2019, in the fourth quarter of 2018, the Company entered into treasury lock contracts related to $2 billion of the expected debt issuance. These economic hedges were not designated as accounting hedges. The Company recorded an unrealized loss of $116 million related to the changes in the fair value of these derivatives in the consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2018. In January 2019, upon issuance of the $5 billion of senior notes, the Company settled the treasury lock contracts and made a payment to its counter party for $122 million. JLT also had a number of foreign exchange contracts to hedge the risk of foreign exchange movements between the U.S. dollar and the GBP, related to JLT’s U.S. dollar denominated revenue in the U.K. Prior to the acquisition, these derivative contracts were designated as cash flow hedges. Upon completion of the JLT Transaction, these derivative contracts were not re-designated as cash flow hedges by the Company. The contracts were settled in June 2019. The change in fair value between the acquisition date and the settlement date resulted in a charge of $26 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The charge is recorded as a change in fair value of acquisition related derivative contracts in the consolidated statement of income. • JLT related interest income and expense: To secure funding for the Transaction, the Company entered into a bridge loan agreement with aggregate commitments of £5.2 billion in September 2018. The Company paid the customary upfront fees related to the bridge loan, which were amortized as interest expense based on the period of time the facility was expected to be in effect. The Company recorded interest expense of approximately $30 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 related to the amortization of the bridge loan fees and an additional $6 million in 2019 upon termination of the bridge loan agreement in connection with the closing of the JLT Transaction. The Company recorded approximately $47 million of interest expense related to the senior notes issued in the first quarter of 2019 and $25 million of interest income from the investment of the proceeds prior to the closing of the JLT Transaction. 40 • Investment loss-Alexander Forbes ("AF"): The Company recorded an impairment charge of $83 million in the 2018 consolidated statement of income for an other than temporary decline in the value of the investment. During 2020, the Company sold approximately 242 million shares of the common stock of AF. Upon completion of the sales of these shares, the investment in AF was accounted at fair value, with investment gains and losses recorded as investment income (loss) in the consolidated statement of income. • Pension settlement charge: The Defined Benefit Pension Plans in the U.K. and certain other countries allow participants an option for the payment of a lump sum distribution from plan assets before retirement in full satisfaction of the retirement benefits due to the participant as well as any survivor’s benefit. The Company’s policy in accordance with applicable U.S. GAAP is to treat these lump sum payments as a partial settlement of the plan liability if they exceed the sum of service cost plus interest cost components of net period pension cost of a plan for the year ("settlement thresholds"). The amount of lump sum payments in 2018 exceeded the settlement thresholds in two of the U.K. plans. The Company recorded non-cash settlement charges, primarily related to these plans of $42 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, of which approximately 90% impacted Risk and Insurance Services. In 2020 and 2019, the Company recorded $3 million and $7 million, respectively, of non-cash pension settlement charges related to certain of its non U.S. plans. JLT Integration and Restructuring Costs The Company is completing its integration of JLT, which is discussed in more detail in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. The costs incurred in connection with the integration and restructuring of the combined businesses, primarily related to severance, real estate rationalization and technology, consulting fees related to the management of the integration processes and legal fees related to the rationalization of legal entity structures. The Company incurred costs of $251 million in 2020 and $335 million in 2019 and expects the remaining costs of $139 million to be incurred in 2021 of which $134 million will be cash expenditure s. Through December 31, 2020, the Company has exceeded the initial estimated savings of $350 million. The Company now expects approximately $425 million of annualized savings when the integration is completed in 2021. 41 Consolidated Revenue and Expense Revenue - Components of Change The Company conducts business in many countries. As a result, foreign exchange rate movements may impact period-to-period comparisons of revenue. Similarly, certain other items such as the revenue impact of acquisitions and dispositions, including transfers among businesses, may impact period-to-period comparisons of revenue. Underlying revenue measures the change in revenue from one period to another by isolating these impacts. The calculation of underlying revenue growth for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to 2019, is calculated as if MMC and JLT were a combined company as of January 1, 2019, but excludes the impact of currency and other acquisitions, dispositions, and transfers among businesses. Combined prior year revenue information for MMC and JLT for the year ended December 31, 2019 are presented below. The unaudited 2019 JLT revenue amounts in the "2019 including JLT" column reflect historical JLT revenue information following IFRS, adjusted to conform with U.S. GAAP and the Company's specific accounting policies, primarily related to development of constraints and subsequent release of those constraints related to the reinsurance business. The decrease in revenue due to the disposal of JLT's Aerospace business is reflected in the acquisitions/dispositions column beginning in June 2019, when the sale was completed. See the reconciliation of non-GAAP measures within MD&A. All other acquisitions/dispositions activity is included in the acquisitions/dispositions column. Underlying expense growth is calculated in a similar manner. The impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations, acquisitions and dispositions, including transfers among businesses, on the Company’s operating revenues by segment are as follows: 42 The following table provides more detailed revenue information for certain of the components presented above: Revenue Consolidated revenue was $17 billion in 2020, an increase of 3%, or 1% on an underlying basis. Revenue in the Risk and Insurance Services segment increased 8% in 2020 compared with 2019, or 3% on an underlying basis. Revenue increased 3% and 6% on an underlying basis at Marsh and Guy Carpenter, respectively, as compared with 2019. The Consulting segment's revenue decreased 2% compared with 2019, as well as on an underlying basis. Revenue decreased 1% and 4% on an underlying basis at Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group, respectively, as compared with 2019. Operating Expense Consolidated operating expenses increased 1% in 2020 compared with 2019. Expenses decreased 2% on an underlying basis, reflecting a decrease in JLT integration and restructuring and acquisition-related costs, and savings realized from the completion of integration efforts to date. The decrease also reflects lower travel and entertainment, meeting costs and outside services resulting from the Company’s restrictions on travel and cost containment measures taken in light of COVID-19 and lower expenses recoverable from clients. These decreases were partly offset by a JLT legacy E&O provision of $161 million recorded in 2020, higher incentive compensation and severance. Risk and Insurance Services In the Risk and Insurance Services segment, the Company’s subsidiaries and other affiliated entities act as brokers, agents or consultants for insureds, insurance underwriters and other brokers in the areas of risk management, insurance broking and insurance program management services, primarily under the name of Marsh; and engage in reinsurance broking, catastrophe and financial modeling services and related advisory functions, primarily under the name of Guy Carpenter. Marsh and Guy Carpenter are compensated for brokerage and consulting services primarily through fees paid by clients or commissions paid out of premiums charged by insurance and reinsurance companies. Commission rates vary in amount depending upon the type of insurance or reinsurance coverage provided, the particular insurer or reinsurer and the capacity in which the broker acts and negotiates with clients. Revenues can be affected by premium rate levels in the insurance/reinsurance markets, the amount of risk retained by insurance and reinsurance clients themselves and by the value of the risks that have been insured since commission-based compensation is frequently related to the premiums paid by insureds and reinsureds. In many cases, fee compensation may be negotiated in advance, based on the type of risk, coverage required and service provided by the Company and ultimately, the extent of the risk placed into the insurance market or retained by the client. The trends and comparisons of revenue from one period to the next can be affected by changes in premium rate levels, fluctuations in client risk 43 retention and increases or decreases in the value of risks that have been insured, as well as new and lost business, and the volume of business from new and existing clients. Marsh also receives other compensation from insurance companies, separate from retail fees and commissions. This compensation includes, among other things, payment for consulting and analytics services provided to insurers; administrative and other services provided to or on behalf of insurers (including services relating to the administration and management of quota share, panels and other facilities in which insurers participate); and contingent commissions. Marsh and Guy Carpenter also receive interest income on certain funds (such as premiums and claims proceeds) held in a fiduciary capacity for others. The investment of fiduciary funds is regulated by state and other insurance authorities. These regulations typically require segregation of fiduciary funds and limit the types of investments that may be made with them. Interest income from these investments varies depending on the amount of funds invested and applicable interest rates, both of which vary from time to time. For presentation purposes, fiduciary interest is segregated from the other revenues of Marsh and Guy Carpenter and separately presented within the segment, as shown in the revenue by segments charts presented earlier in this MD&A. The results of operations for the Risk and Insurance Services segment are presented below: Revenue Revenue in the Risk and Insurance Services segment increased 8% in 2020 compared with 2019. Revenue grew 3% on an underlying basis and 1% from the impact of acquisitions, partly offset by a 1% decrease related to the impact of foreign currency translation. In Marsh, revenue increased 3% on an underlying basis and 2% from the impact of acquisitions, partly offset by a 1% decrease from the impact of foreign currency translation. U.S./Canada had underlying revenue growth of 5%. International operations increased 1% on an underlying basis, reflecting increases of 4% in Asia Pacific and 3% in Latin America, while EMEA was flat compared to prior year. Guy Carpenter’s revenue increased 15% to $1.7 billion in 2020 compared with 2019, or 6% on an underlying basis. Fiduciary interest income was $46 million in 2020 compared with $105 million in 2019. The decrease in 2020 compared to 2019 reflects the impact of lower interest rates partially offset by a higher level of average invested funds. The Risk and Insurance Services segment completed seven acquisitions during 2020. Information regarding those acquisitions is included in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. Expense Expense in the Risk and Insurance Services segment increased 3% in 2020 compared with 2019, reflecting decreases of 2% on an underlying basis and 1% from the impact of foreign currency, partly offset by a 2% increase from acquisitions. The decrease in underlying expense reflects lower JLT integration, restructuring and acquisition related costs and savings realized from the completion of integration efforts to date. The decrease also reflects lower travel and entertainment and meeting costs resulting from the Company’s restrictions on travel and cost containment measures taken in light of COVID-19 and lower base salaries. These decreases are partly offset by higher incentive compensation and severance. 44 Consulting The Company conducts business in its Consulting segment through two main business groups, Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group. Mercer provides consulting expertise, advice, services and solutions in the areas of health, wealth and career. Oliver Wyman Group provides specialized management, economic and brand consulting services. The major component of revenue in the Consulting business is fees paid by clients for advice and services. Mercer, principally through its health line of business, also earns revenue in the form of commissions received from insurance companies for the placement of group (and occasionally individual) insurance contracts, primarily life, health and accident coverages. Revenue for Mercer’s investment management business and certain of Mercer’s defined contribution administration services consists principally of fees based on assets under management or administration. Revenue in the Consulting segment is affected by, among other things, global economic conditions, including changes in clients’ particular industries and markets. Revenue is also affected by competition due to the introduction of new products and services, broad trends in employee demographics, including levels of employment, the effect of government policies and regulations, and fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates. Revenues from the provision of investment management services and retirement trust and administrative services are significantly affected by the level of assets under management or administration, which is impacted by securities market performance. For the investment management business, revenues from the majority of funds are included on a gross basis in accordance with U.S. GAAP and include reimbursable expenses incurred by professional staff and sub-advisory fees, and the related expenses are included in other operating expenses. The results of operations for the Consulting segment are presented below: Revenue Consulting revenue in 2020 decreased 2% compared with 2019, reflecting decreases of 2% on an underlying basis and 1% from the impact of dispositions. Mercer's revenue in 2020 decreased 1% on an underlying basis and 2% from the impact of dispositions. The decrease in underlying revenue reflects decreases in both Career of 8% and Wealth of 1% partly offset by an increase in Health of 2%. Oliver Wyman Group’s revenue decreased 3% in 2020 compared with 2019, or 4% on an underlying basis. Expense Consulting expense in 2020 increased 1% compared with 2019. This reflects an increase of 1% on an underlying basis and a decrease of 1% from the impact of dispositions. The increase in underlying expense reflects a JLT legacy E&O provision of $161 million recorded in 2020, higher JLT integration and restructuring costs as well as higher base salaries, incentive compensation and severance. These increases were partly offset by lower travel, entertainment and meeting costs resulting from the Company’s restrictions on travel and cost containment measures taken in light of COVID-19 and lower expenses recoverable from clients. Corporate and Other Corporate expense in 2020 was $274 million compared with $366 million in 2019. Expenses decreased 17% on an underlying basis due to lower acquisition, integration and restructuring costs primarily related 45 to the JLT Transaction and savings realized from the completion of integration efforts to date, partly offset by higher base salaries. Other Corporate Items Interest Interest income earned on corporate funds amounted to $7 million in 2020 compared with $39 million in 2019. During the first quarter of 2019, the Company issued approximately $6.5 billion of senior notes related to the JLT acquisition. The funds were held in escrow and released for payment in April 2019, when the acquisition was completed. The decrease in interest income from the prior year is primarily due to interest earned on these funds in 2019. Interest expense in 2020 was $515 million compared with $524 million in 2019. The decrease in interest expense was primarily due to the impact of lower average interest rates on borrowings. Investment (Loss) Income The caption "Investment (loss) income" in the consolidated statements of income comprises realized and unrealized gains and losses from investments. It includes, when applicable, other than temporary declines in the value of securities, mark-to-market increases or decreases in equity investments with readily determinable fair values and equity method gains or losses on its investments in private equity funds. The Company's investments may include direct investments in insurance, consulting or other strategically linked companies and investments in private equity funds. The Company recorded a net investment loss of $22 million in 2020, primarily due to the loss from the sale of shares of AF during the second quarter of 2020. The Company recorded net investment income of $22 million in 2019 which included gains of $10 million related to mark-to-market changes to equity securities and gains of $12 million related to investments in private equity funds and other investments. Income Taxes The Company completed the JLT Transaction on April 1, 2019. During 2020, the integration of this global organization required intercompany transfers of acquired entities into the Company's country structures and the combination of those entities within the equivalent Company businesses. The integration transactions were designed to be tax efficient. The Company's global effective tax rate on JLT's earnings was reduced compared to JLT's pre-acquisition tax rate by utilizing debt for the restructuring transactions to be capital efficient, and reducing the generation of post-acquisition tax losses by merging historically unprofitable JLT entities with profitable Company operations. Provisions for deferred taxes and uncertain tax positions were established as part of the purchase price allocation as of April 1, 2019. The broader JLT organization is now held under the Company's legal entity structure, which makes it part of a U.S.-based multinational company and subjects it to full U.S. taxation. The Company's consolidated effective tax rate was 26.7%, 27.3%, and 25.6% in 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. The rates in all periods reflect the effects of tax planning and the ongoing impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("TCJA"), including regulatory and other guidance as it became available. The tax rate in 2020 includes a valuation allowance for certain tax credits, the impact of uncertain tax positions, and certain tax planning benefits. The 2019 rate reflects items related to the JLT acquisition, including non-deductible goodwill allocated to the sale of Aerospace and non-deductible expenses incurred in relation to the JLT acquisition. The 2018 rate includes the effect of a charge related to the Company’s investment in AF as discussed in Note 1. The tax rates in all periods reflect the impact of discrete tax matters, tax legislation, and nontaxable adjustments to contingent acquisition consideration. The effective tax rate may vary significantly from period to period for the foreseeable future. The effective tax rate is sensitive to the geographic mix and repatriation of the Company's earnings, which may result in higher or lower tax rates. A shift in the mix of profits among jurisdictions can also affect the effective tax rate. In 2020, pre-tax income in Barbados, Canada, Ireland, Australia, Japan and Germany accounted for approximately 60% of the Company's total non-U.S. pre-tax income, with effective rates in those countries of 1%, 27%, 15%, 23%, 33.7%, and 32% respectively. In addition, losses in certain jurisdictions cannot be offset by earnings from other operations, and may require valuation allowances that affect the rate, depending on estimates of the value of associated deferred tax assets which can be realized. A valuation allowance was recorded to reduce deferred tax 46 assets to the amount that the Company believes is more likely than not to be realized. Details are provided in Note 7 of the consolidated financial statements. The effective tax rate is also sensitive to changes in unrecognized tax benefits, including the impact of settled tax audits and expired statutes of limitation. Changes in tax laws, rulings, policies or related legal and regulatory interpretations occur frequently and may also have significant favorable or adverse impacts on our effective tax rate. As a U.S. domiciled parent holding company, the Company is the issuer of essentially all of the Company's external indebtedness, and incurs the related interest expense in the U.S. The Company’s interest expense deductions are not currently limited. Further, most senior executive and oversight functions are conducted in the U.S. and the associated costs are incurred primarily in the U.S. Some of these expenses may not be deductible in the U.S., which may impact the effective tax rate. The quasi-territorial tax regime provides an opportunity for the Company to repatriate foreign earnings more tax efficiently and there is less incentive for permanent reinvestment of these earnings. However, permanent reinvestment continues to be a component of the Company’s global capital strategy. The Company continues to evaluate its global investment and repatriation strategy in light of our capital requirements and potential costs of repatriation. The Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act (the "CARES Act") was signed into law on March 27, 2020. The CARES Act provided over $2 trillion in economic relief to individuals, governmental agencies and companies, to deal with the public health and economic impacts of COVID-19. Pursuant to the CARES Act, payroll taxes due from March 27, 2020 through December 31, 2020 will be deferred until 2021 and 2022 (50% to be paid each year) without interest or penalties. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company is organized as a legal entity separate and distinct from its operating subsidiaries. As the Company does not have significant operations of its own, the Company is dependent upon dividends and other payments from its operating subsidiaries to pay principal and interest on its outstanding debt obligations, pay dividends to stockholders, repurchase its shares and pay corporate expenses. The Company can also provide financial support to its operating subsidiaries for acquisitions, investments and certain parts of their business that require liquidity, such as the capital markets business of Guy Carpenter. Other sources of liquidity include borrowing facilities in financing cash flows. The Company derives a significant portion of its revenue and operating profit from operating subsidiaries located outside of the U.S. Funds from those operating subsidiaries are regularly repatriated to the U.S. out of annual earnings. At December 31, 2020, the Company had approximately $789 million of cash and cash equivalents in its foreign operations, which includes $249 million of operating funds required to be maintained for regulatory requirements or as collateral under certain captive insurance arrangements. The Company expects to continue its practice of repatriating available funds from its non-U.S. operating subsidiaries out of current annual earnings. Where appropriate, a portion of the current year earnings will continue to be permanently reinvested. With respect to repatriating 2018 and prior earnings, the Company has evaluated such factors as its short- and long-term capital needs, acquisition and borrowing strategies, and the availability of cash for repatriation for each of its subsidiaries. In general, the Company has determined that its permanent reinvestment assertions, in light of the enactment of the TCJA, should allow the Company to repatriate previously taxed earnings from the deemed repatriations as cash becomes available. During 2020, the Company recorded foreign currency translation adjustments w hich increased net equity by $559 million. Continued weakening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies would further i ncrease the translated U.S. dollar value of the Company’s net investments in its non-U.S. subsidiaries, as well as the translated U.S. dollar value of cash repatriations from those subsidiaries. Conversely, strengthening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies would decrease the translated U.S. dollar value of the Company’s net investments in its non-U.S. subsidiaries, as well as the translated U.S. dollar value of cash repatriations from those subsidiaries. Cash on our consolidated balance sheets includes funds available for general corporate purposes. Funds held on behalf of clients in a fiduciary capacity are segregated and shown separately in the consolidated 47 balance sheets as an offset to fiduciary liabilities. Fiduciary funds cannot be used for general corporate purposes, and should not be considered as a source of liquidity for the Company. Operating Cash Flows The Company generated $3.4 billion of cash from operations in 2020 and $2.4 billion in 2019. These amounts reflect the net income of the Company during those periods, excluding gains or losses from investments, adjusted for non-cash charges and changes in working capital which relate primarily to the timing of payments of accrued liabilities or receipts of assets and pension contributions. Pension-Related Items Contributions During 2020, the Company contributed $65 million to its U.S. pension plans and $78 million to non-U.S. pension plans compared to contributions of $35 million to U.S. plans and $87 million to non-U.S. plans in 2019. In the U.S., contributions to the tax-qualified defined benefit plans are based on ERISA guidelines and the Company generally expects to maintain a funded status of 80% or more of the liability determined in accordance with the ERISA guidelines. In 2020, the Company made $30 million of contributions to non-qualified plans and $35 million to its qualified plans. The Company expects to contribute approximately $37 million to its U.S. pension plans in 2021, including $7 million to the U.S. qualified plans to meet ERISA funding requirements and $30 million to its non-qualified plans. The Company contribute d $34 million to its U.K. plans in 2020, including an expense allowance of approxim ately $5 million. The Company's contributions to its U.K. plans in 2021 are expected to be approximately $47 million, including an expense allowance of $16 million. Outside the U.S., the Company has a large number of non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans, the largest of which are in the U.K., which comprise approximately 81% of non-U.S. plan assets at December 31, 2020. Contribution rates for non-U.S. plans are generally based on local funding practices and statutory requirements, which may differ significantly from measurements under U.S. GAAP. In the U.K., the assumptions used to determine pension contributions are the result of legally-prescribed negotiations between the Company and the plans' trustee that typically occur every three years in conjunction with the actuarial valuation of the plans. Currently, this results in a lower funded status compared to U.S. GAAP and may result in contributions irrespective of the U.S. GAAP funded status. For the MMC U.K. Pension Fund, a new agreement was reached with the trustee in the fourth quarter of 2019 based on the surplus funding position at December 31, 2018. In accordance with the agreement, no deficit funding is required until 2023. The funding level will be re-assessed during 2022 to determine if contributions are required in 2023. In order to have greater influence over asset allocation and overall investment decisions, in November 2019, the Company renewed its agreement to support annual deficit contributions by the U.K. operating companies under certain circumstances, up to GBP 450 million over a seven-year period. In addition, in the U.K., the Company assumed responsibility for JLT's Pension Scheme ("JLT U.K. plan"). We currently expect to pay $29 million of deficit funding in 2021, although we will also reach a new funding agreement with the trustee during 2021. In the aggregate, the Company expects to contribute approximately $87 million to its non-U.S. defined benefit plans in 2021, comprising approximately $40 million to plans outside of the U.K. and $47 million to the U.K. plans. Changes to Pension Plans As part of the JLT Transaction, the Company assumed responsibility for a number of pension plans throughout the world, the most significant of which is the JLT U.K. plan. The JLT U.K. plan has a defined benefit section which was frozen to future accrual in 2006 and a defined contribution section. The assets of the scheme are held in a trustee administered fund separate from the Company. Changes in Funded Status and Expense The year-over-year change in the funded status of the Company's pension plans is impacted by the 48 difference between actual and assumed results, particularly with regard to return on assets, and changes in the discount rate, as well as the amount of Company contributions, if any. Unrecognized actuarial losses were approximatel y $2.4 billion a n d $3.5 billion at D ecember 31, 2020 for the U.S. plans and non-U.S. plans, respectively, compared with losses of $2.1 billion and $3.1 billion at December 31, 2019. The increases in b oth the U.S. and non-U.S. plans was primarily due to a decrease in the discount rate used to measure plan liabilities partly offset by an increase in asset values. In the past several years, the amount of unamortized losses has been significantly impacted, both positively and negatively, by actual asset performance and changes in discount rates . The discount rate used to measure plan liabilities in 2020 and 2019 decreased in the U.S. and U.K. (the Company's largest plans) following increases in the U.S. and the U.K. in 2018. An increase in the discount rate decreases the measured plan benefit obligation, resulting in actuarial gains, while a decrease in the discount rate increases the measured plan obligation, resulting in actuarial los ses. During 2020, the Company's defined benefit pension plan assets had gains of 13.1% and 12.0% in the U.S. and U.K., respectively, as compared to gains of 21.4% and 13.1% in the U.S. and U.K., respectively, in 2019. During 2018, the Company's defined benefit pension plan assets had losses of 7.4% in the U.S. and 1.0% in the U.K. Overall, based on the measurement at December 31, 2020, total benefit credits related to the Company’s defined benefit plans are expected to increase in 2021 by approximately $22 million co mpared to 2020, reflecting an increase in non-U.S. plans of approximately $31 million, offset by a decrease in U.S. plans of $9 million. The Company’s accounting policies for its defined benefit pension plans, including the selection of and sensitivity to assumptions, are discussed below under Management’s Discussion of Critical Accounting Policies. For additional information regarding the Company’s retirement plans, see Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. Financing Cash Flows Net cas h used for fina ncing activities was $1.9 billion in 2020 compared with $3.3 billion provided by financing activities in 2019. Credit Facilities The Company and certain of its foreign subsidiaries have a multi-currency five-year unsecured revolving credit facility of $1.8 billion. The interest rate on this facility is based on LIBOR plus a fixed margin which varies with the Company's credit ratings. This facility expires in October 2023 and requires the Company to maintain certain coverage and leverage ratios which are tested quarterly. The Company borrowed $1 billion under this facility in the first quarter of 2020, which was repaid in full during the second quarter of 2020. There were no borrowings outstanding und er this facility at December 31, 2020. In January 2020, the Company entered into two new term loan facilities: a $500 million one-year facility and a $500 million two-year facility. In the first quarter of 2020, the Company borrowed $1 billion against these facilities. During the third quarter of 2020, the Company repaid $500 million of borrowings from its one-year facility. In December 2020, the Company repaid $500 million of borrowings from the two year facility. These two facilities were terminated as of December 31, 2020 after repayment of the initial draw down. In April 2020, the Company entered into a new 364 day $1 billion unsecured revolving credit facility with a term out option after one year. The facility has similar coverage and leverage ratios as the multi-currency five-year unsecured revolving credit facility. The Company had no borrowings outstanding under this facility at December 31, 2020. The Company also maintains other credit facilities, guarantees and letters of credit with various banks, aggregating $573 million at December 31, 2020 and $598 million at December 31, 2019. There were no outstanding borrowings under these facilities as of December 31, 2020 or as of December 31, 2019. Debt The Company has established a short-term debt financing program of up to $1.5 billion through the issuance of commercial paper. The proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper were used for general corporate purposes. The Company had no commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2020. 49 In December 2020, the Company repaid $700 million of maturing Senior Notes and $300 million of floating rate notes with an original maturity of December 2021. In May 2020, the Company issued $750 million of 2.250% Senior Notes due 2030. The Company used the net proceeds from this offering to pay outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility. In March 2020, the Company repaid $500 million of maturing Senior Notes. In September 2019, the Company repaid $300 million of maturing Senior Notes. During 2019, the Company issued approximately $6.5 billion of Senior Notes to primarily fund the acquisition of JLT, including the payment of related fees and expenses, and to repay certain JLT indebtedness, as well as for general corporate purposes. In connection with the closing of the JLT Transaction, the Company assumed approximately $1 billion of historical JLT indebtedness, which it repaid during 2019. The Company incurred debt extinguishment costs of $32 million in regard to the repayment of this debt. The Company's senior debt is currently rated A- by Standard & Poor's and Baa1 by Moody's. The Company's short-term debt is currently rated A-2 by Standard & Poor's and P-2 by Moody's. The Company carries a Stable outlook with S&P and a Negative outlook with Moody's. Share Repurchases The Company did not repurchase any shares of its common stock during 2020. In November 2019, the Board of Directors authorized an increase in the Company’s share repurchase program, which supersedes any prior authorization, allowing management to buy back up to $2.5 billion of the Company’s common stock. As of December 31, 2020, the Company remained authorized to purchase shares of its common stock up to a value of approximately $2.4 billion. There is no time limit on this authorization. During 2019, the Company repurchased 4.8 million shares of its common stock for total consideration of $485 million at an average price per share of $100.48. Dividends The Company paid total divide nds of $943 million in 2020 ($1.84 per share), $890 million in 2019 ($1.74 per share) and $807 million in 2018 ($1.58 per share). Contingent Payments Related To Acquisitions During 2020, the Company pa id $102 million of contingent payments related to acquisitions made in prior years. These payments are split between financing and operating cash flows in the consolidated statements of cash flows. Payments of $54 million related to the contingent consideration liability that was recorded on the date of acquisition are reflected as financing cash flows. Payments related to increases in the contingent consideration liability subsequent to the date of acquisition of $48 million are reflected as operating cash flows. Remaining estimated future contingent consideration payments of $243 million for acquisitions completed in 2020 and in prior years are included in accounts payable and accrued liabilities or other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2020 . The Company paid deferred purchase consideration related to prior years' acquisitions of $68 million and $43 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, that is reflected as financing cash flows. Remaining deferred cash payments of approximately $241 million are included in accounts payable and accrued liabilities or other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2020. In 2019, the Company paid $63 million of contingent payments related to acquisitions made in prior periods, of which $22 million was reported as financing cash flows and $41 million as operating cash flows. Derivatives Net Investment Hedge The Company has investments in various subsidiaries with Euro functional currencies. As a result, the Company is exposed to the risk of fluctuations between the Euro and U.S. dollar exchange rates. As part of its risk management program to fund the JLT acquisition, the Company issued €1.1 billion Senior Notes, and designated the debt instruments as a net investment hedge of its Euro denominated subsidiaries. The hedge is re-assessed each quarter to confirm that the designated equity balance at the 50 beginning of each period continues to equal or exceed 80% of the outstanding balance of the Euro debt instrument and that all the critical terms of the hedging instrument and the hedged net investment continue to match. If the hedge is highly effective, the change in the debt balance related to foreign exchange fluctuations will be recorded in foreign currency translation gains (losses) in the consolidated balance sheet. The U.S. dollar value of t he Euro notes increased by $124 million during 2020 related to the change in foreign exchange rates. The Company conclude d that the hedge was highly effective and recorded an increase to accumulated other comprehensive loss for the year ended December 31, 2020. JLT Fair Value Debt Derivative Contracts Prior to the JLT Transaction closing, a significant portion of JLT's outstanding senior notes were denominated in U.S. dollars. In order to hedge its exposure against the risk of fluctuations between the British Pound ("GBP") and the U.S. dollar, JLT entered into foreign exchange and interest rate swaps, which were designated as fair value hedges. In June 2019, the Company redeemed these U.S. dollar denominated senior notes and settled the related derivative contracts. Both the change in fair value of the debt and the change in fair value of the derivative contracts were recorded in the consolidated statement of income in the second quarter of 2019. The Company received approximately $112 million upon settlement of these derivative contracts. JLT Cash Flow Hedges JLT also had a number of foreign exchange contracts to hedge the risk of foreign exchange movements between the U.S. dollar and the GBP, related to JLT’s U.S. dollar denominated revenue in the U.K. Prior to the acquisition, these derivative contracts were designated as cash flow hedges. Upon acquisition, the derivative contracts were not re-designated as cash flow hedges by the Company. The contracts were settled in June 2019. The change in fair value between the acquisition date and the settlement date resulted in a charge of $26 million in the second quarter of 2019. The charge is recorded as a change in fair value of acquisition related derivative contracts in the consolidated statement of income. Foreign Exchange Forward Contract In connection with the JLT Transaction, to hedge the risk of appreciation of the GBP-denominated purchase price relative to the U.S. dollar, on September 20, 2018, the Company entered into the FX Contract to, solely upon consummation of the Transaction, purchase £5.2 billion and sell a corresponding amount of U.S. dollars at a contracted exchange rate. The FX Contract, which did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under applicable accounting guidance, is discussed in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. The Company settled the FX Contract on April 1, 2019, recording a realized gain to the consolidated statement of income of approximately $31 million in 2019. The cash outflow related to the settlement of the FX Contract was approximately $294 million in 2019. Foreign Exchange Contract on Euro Debt Issuance In March 2019, the Company issued €1.1 billion of senior notes related to the JLT Transaction. See Note 13 for additional information related to the Euro senior note issuances. In connection with the senior note issuances of €1.1 billion, the Company entered into a forward exchange contract to hedge the economic risk of changes in foreign exchange rates from the issuance date to settlement date of the Euro senior notes. This forward exchange contract was settled in March 2019 and the Company recorded a charge of $7 million in the first quarter of 2019 related to the settlement of this contract. Treasury Locks on Senior Notes In connection with the JLT Transaction and to hedge the risk of increases in future interest rates prior to its issuance of senior notes, the Company entered into treasury locks related to $2 billion of the expected debt in the fourth quarter of 2018. The fair value at December 31, 2018 was based on the published treasury rate plus forward premium as of December 31, 2018 compared to the all in rate at the inception of the contract. The contracts were not designated as an accounting hedge. The Company recorded an unrealized loss of $116 million related to the change in the fair value of these derivatives in the consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2018. In January 2019, upon issuance of the $5 billion of senior notes, the Company settled the treasury lock derivatives and made a payment to its counter party for $122 million. 51 Investing Cash Flows Net cash used for investing activities amounted to $814 million in 2020 compared with $5.7 billion used for investing activities in 2019. The Company paid $668 million and $5.5 billion, net of cash acquired, for acquisitions it made during 2020 and 2019, respectively. During 2020, the Company sold certain businesses primarily in the U.S., U.K. and Canada for cash proceeds of approximately $98 million. At December 31, 2019, the Company owned approximately 443 million shares of the common stock of AF, a South African company listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, which was accounted for under the equity method of accounting. In February 2020, the Company sold approximately 49 million shares, and in May 2020, sold an additional 193 million shares, leaving the Company with an investment of appr oximately 201 million shares of the common stock of AF at December 31, 2020. Upon completion of the sale of shares in May 2020, the investment in AF was accounted at fair value, with investment gains and losses recorded as investment income in the consolidated statement of income. During the first quarter of 2019, the Company disposed of its investment in Benefitfocus for total proceeds of approximately $132 million. The Company received $115 million in the first quarter of 2019 and $17 million in the second quarter of 2019 as final settlement on the sale. During the second quarter of 2019, the Company disposed of its investment in Payscale and received proceeds of approximately $47 million. In January 2019, the Company increased its equity ownership in Marsh India from 26% to 49% for approximately $88 million. Marsh India is carried under the equity method. The Company’s additions to fixed assets and capitalized software, which amounted to $348 million in 2020 and $421 million in 2019, primarily related to computer equipment purchases, the refurbishing and modernizing of office facilities and software development costs. The Company has commitments for potential future investments of approximat ely $46 million in four private equity funds t hat invest primarily in financial services companies. Commitments and Obligations The following sets forth the Company’s future contractual obligations by the types identified in the table below as of December 31, 2020: The above does not include the liability for unrecognized tax benefits of $98 million as the Company is unable to reasonably predict the timing of settlement of these liabilities, other than approximately $20 million that may become payable during 2021. The above does not include the remaining transitional tax payments related to the TCJA of $64.5 million. Management’s Discussion of Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Management considers the policies discussed below to be critical to understanding the Company’s 52 financial statements because their application places the most significant demands on management’s judgment, and requires management to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Actual results may differ from those estimates. Revenue Recognition In the Risk and Insurance Services segment, judgments related to the amount of variable revenue consideration to ultimately be received on placement of quota share reinsurance treaties and contingent commission from insurers, which was previously recognized when the contingency was resolved, now requires significant judgments and estimates. The Company capitalizes the incremental costs to obtain contracts primarily related to commissions or sales bonus payments. These deferred costs are amortized over the expected life of the underlying customer relationships. The Company also capitalizes certain pre-placement costs that are considered fulfillment costs that are amortized at a point in time when the associated revenue is recognized. Management also makes significant judgments and estimates to measure the progress toward completing performance obligations and realization rates for consideration related to contracts as well as potential performance-based fees in the Consulting segment. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Legal and Other Loss Contingencies The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to numerous claims, lawsuits and proceedings including claims for errors and omissions ("E&O"). GAAP requires that a liability be recorded when a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. Significant management judgment is required to apply this guidance. The Company utilizes case level reviews by inside and outside counsel, an internal actuarial analysis by Oliver Wyman, a subsidiary of the Company, and other methods to estimate potential losses. The liability is reviewed quarterly and adjusted as developments warrant. In many cases, the Company has not recorded a liability, other than for legal fees to defend the claim, because we are unable, at the present time, to make a determination that a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. Given the unpredictability of E&O claims and of litigation that could flow from them, it is possible that an adverse outcome in a particular matter could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s businesses, results of operations, financial condition or cash flow in a given quarterly or annual period. In addition, to the extent that insurance coverage is available, significant management judgment is required to determine the amount of recoveries that are probable of collection under the Company’s various insurance programs. Retirement Benefits The Company maintains qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension and defined contribution plans for its eligible U.S. employees and a variety of defined benefit and defined contribution plans for its eligible non-U.S. employees. The Company’s policy for funding its tax-qualified defined benefit retirement plans is to contribute amounts at least sufficient to meet the funding requirements set forth in U.S. and applicable foreign laws. The Company recognizes the funded status of its over-funded defined benefit pension and retiree medical plans as a net benefit plan asset and its unfunded and underfunded plans as a net benefit plan liability. The gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that have not been recognized as components of net periodic costs are recorded as a component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income ("AOCI"), net of tax, in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets. The gains and losses that exceed specified corridors, 10 percent of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market-related value of plan assets, are amortized prospectively out of AOCI over a period that approximates the remaining life expectancy of participants in plans where substantially all participants are inactive or the average remaining service period of active participants for plans with active participants. The vast majority of unrecognized losses relate to inactive plans and are amortized over the remaining life expectancy of the participants. The determination of net periodic pension cost is based on a number of assumptions, including an expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate, mortality and assumed rate of salary increase. The assumptions used in the calculation of net periodic pension costs and pension liabilities are 53 disclosed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. The assumptions for expected rate of return on plan assets and the discount rate are discussed in more detail below. The long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption is determined for each plan based on the facts and circumstances that exist as of the measurement date, and the specific portfolio mix of each plan’s assets. The Company utilizes a model developed by Mercer, a subsidiary of the Company, to assist in the determination of this assumption. The model takes into account several factors, including: actual and target portfolio allocation; investment, administrative and trading expenses incurred directly by the plan trust; historical portfolio performance; relevant forward-looking economic analysis; and expected returns, variances and correlations for different asset classes. These measures are used to determine probabilities using standard statistical techniques to calculate a range of expected returns on the portfolio. The target asset allocation for the U.S. plans is 64% equities and equity alternatives and 36% fixed income. At the end of 2020, the actual allocation for the U.S. plans was 64% equities and equity alternatives and 36% fixed income. The target asset allocation for the U.K. plans, which comprise approximately 81% of non-U.S. plan assets, is 32% equities and equity alternatives and 68% fixed income. At the end of 2020, the actual allocation for the U.K. plans was 33% equities and equity alternatives and 67% fixed income. The discount rate selected for each U.S. plan is based on a model bond portfolio with coupons and redemptions that closely match the expected liability cash flows from the plan. Discount rates for non-U.S. plans are based on appropriate bond indices adjusted for duration; in the U.K., the plan duration is reflected using the Mercer yield curve. The table below shows the weighted average assumed rate of return and the discount rate at the December 31, 2020 measurement date (for measuring pension expense in 2021) for the total Company, the U.S. and the Rest of World ("ROW"). Holding all other assumptions constant, a half-percentage point change in the rate of return on plan assets and discount rate assumptions would affect net periodic pension cost for the U.S. and U.K. plans, which together comprise approximately 85% of total pension plan liabilities, as follows: The impact of discount rate changes shown above relates to the increase or decrease in actuarial gains or losses being amortized through net periodic pension cost, as well as the increase or decrease in interest expense, with all other facts and assumptions held constant. It does not contemplate nor include potential future impacts a change in the interest rate environment and discount rates might cause, such as the impact on the market value of the plans’ assets. In addition, the assumed return on plan assets would likely be impacted by changes in the interest rate environment and other factors, including equity valuations, since these factors reflect the starting point used in the Company’s projection models. For example, a reduction in interest rates may result in a reduction in the assumed return on plan assets. Changing the discount rate and leaving the other assumptions constant also may not be representative of the impact on expense, because the long-term rates of inflation and salary increases are often correlated with the discount rate. Changes in these assumptions will not necessarily have a linear impact on the net periodic pension cost. The Company contributes to certain health care and life insurance benefits provided to its retired employees. The cost of these post-retirement benefits for employees in the U.S. is accrued during the period up to the date employees are eligible to retire but is funded by the Company as incurred. The key assumptions and sensitivity to changes in the assumed health care cost trend rate are discussed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. 54 Income Taxes Significant judgment is required in determining the annual effective tax rate and in evaluating uncertain tax positions. The Company reports a liability for unrecognized tax benefits resulting from uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The evaluation of a tax position is a two-step process: • First, the Company determines whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon tax examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation, based on only the technical merits of the position. If a tax position does not meet the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold, the benefit of that position is not recognized in the financial statements. • The second step is measurement. A tax position that meets the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold is measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial statements. The tax position is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50-percent likely of being realized upon ultimate resolution with a taxing authority. Uncertain tax positions are evaluated based upon the facts and circumstances that exist at each reporting period and involve significant management judgment. Subsequent changes in judgment based upon new information may lead to changes in recognition, de-recognition, and measurement. Adjustments may result, for example, upon resolution of an issue with the taxing authorities, or expiration of a statute of limitations barring an assessment for an issue. The Company recognizes interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. The Company’s accounting policy follows the portfolio approach that leaves stranded income tax effects in AOCI. Certain items are included in the Company's tax returns at different times than the items are reflected in the financial statements. As a result, the annual tax expense reflected in the consolidated statements of income is different than that reported in the tax returns. Some of these differences are permanent, such as non-deductible expenses, and some differences are temporary and reverse over time, such as depreciation expense. Temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are measured at existing tax rates. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in the financial statements for which payment has been deferred, or expense for which a deduction has been taken already in the tax return but the expense has not yet been recognized in the financial statements. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in tax returns in future years for which a benefit has already been recorded in the financial statements. The Company evaluates all significant available positive and negative evidence, including the existence of losses in recent years and its forecast of future taxable income by jurisdiction, in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. The Company also considers tax planning strategies that would result in realization of deferred tax assets, and the presence of taxable income in prior period tax filings in jurisdictions that allow for the carry back of tax attributes pursuant to the applicable tax law. The underlying assumptions the Company uses in forecasting future taxable income require significant judgment and take into account the Company's recent performance. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent on the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which temporary differences or carry-forwards are deductible or creditable. Valuation allowances are established for deferred tax assets when it is estimated that it is more likely than not that future taxable income will be insufficient to fully use a deduction or credit in that jurisdiction. Fair Value Determinations Goodwill Impairment Testing – The Company is required to assess goodwill and any indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually, or more frequently if circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. The Company performs the annual impairment assessment for each of its reporting units during the third quarter of each year. In accordance with applicable accounting guidance, a company can assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform a quantitative goodwill impairment test. Alternatively, the Company may elect to proceed directly to the quantitative goodwill 55 impairment test. In 2020, the Company elected to perform a qualitative impairment assessment. As part of its assessment, the Company considered numerous factors, including: • that the fair value of each reporting unit exceeds its carrying value by a substantial margin based on its most recent quantitative assessment in 2019; • whether significant acquisitions or dispositions occurred which might alter the fair value of its reporting units; • macroeconomic conditions and their potential impact on reporting unit fair values; • actual performance compared with budget and prior projections used in its estimation of reporting unit fair values; • industry and market conditions; • and the year-over-year change in the Company’s share price. The Company completed its qualitative assessment in the third quarter of 2020 and concluded that a quantitative goodwill impairment test was not required in 2020 and that goodwill was not impaired. Share-Based Payment The accounting guidance for share-based payments requires, among other things, that the estimated grant date fair value of stock options be charged to earnings. Significant management judgment is required to determine the appropriate assumptions for inputs such as volatility and expected term necessary to estimate option values. In addition, management judgment is required to analyze the terms of the plans and awards granted thereunder to determine if awards will be treated as equity awards or liability awards, as defined by the accounting guidance. As of December 31, 2020, there was $17.5 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to stock option awards. The weighted-average period over which the costs are expected to be recognized is 1.23 years. Also as of December 31, 2020, there was $347.7 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to the Company’s restricted stock, restricted stock unit and performance stock unit awards. The weighted-average period over which that cost is expected to be recognized is approximately 1 year. See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding accounting for share-based payments. Investments and Derivatives Although not directly recorded in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets, the Company's defined benefit pension plans hold investments of approxima tely $19.1 billion, whic h include private equity and other non-liquid investments. The fair value of the plan investments determines, in part, the over-or under-funded status of those plans, which is included in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets. The Company also has minority positions in certain equity securities (primarily Alexander Forbes), which are accounted for at fair value with gains or losses recorded as investment gains or losses in the consolidated statement of income. The Company also has approximately $111 million of investments in private equity funds accounted for using the equity method of accounting. The Company reviews the carrying value of its investments (both direct and held through its pension plans) to determine if any valuation adjustments are appropriate under the applicable accounting pronouncements. The Company bases its review on the facts and circumstances as they relate to each investment. In those instances where quoted market prices are not available, particularly for private equity funds, significant management judgment is required to determine the appropriate value of the Company’s investments. Fair value of investments in private equity funds is determined by the funds’ investment managers. Factors considered in determining the fair value of private equity investments include: implied valuation of recently completed financing rounds that included sophisticated outside investors; performance multiples of comparable public companies; restrictions on the sale or disposal of the investments; trading characteristics of the securities; and the relative size of the holdings in comparison to other private investors and the public market float. In connection with the JLT Transaction, the Company entered into several derivative contracts, described in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. These derivative contracts are recorded at fair value at the end of each period, with the change in fair value recorded in the consolidated statements of 56 income. Prior to their settlement, determination of the fair value of these contracts, in particular the deal contingent foreign exchange contract, required significant management judgments or estimates about the potential closing dates of the transaction and remaining value of the deal contingency feature. All derivative contracts related to the JLT Transaction were settled during 2019. Purchase Price Allocation Assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including contingent consideration, as part of a business acquisition are generally recorded at their fair value at the date of acquisition. The excess of purchase price over the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill. Determining fair value of identifiable assets, particularly intangibles, and liabilities acquired also requires management to make estimates, which are based on all available information and in some cases assumptions with respect to the timing and amount of future revenues and expenses associated with an asset. These estimates directly impact the amount of identified intangible assets recognized and the related amortization expense in future periods. New Accounting Pronouncements Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements contains a summary of the Company’s significant accounting policies, including a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements and their impact or potential future impact on the Company’s financial results, if determinable, under the sub-heading "New Accounting Pronouncements". Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures On April 1, 2019, the Company completed its acquisition of JLT. JLT's results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 a re included in the Company’s results of operations. JLT's results of operations for the three months ending March 31, 2019 are not included in the Company's results of operations for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2019. Prior to being acquired by the Company, JLT operated in three segments, Specialty, Reinsurance and Employee Benefits. As of April 1, 2019, the historical JLT businesses were combined into MMC operations as follows: JLT Specialty is included by geography within Marsh, JLT Reinsurance is included within Guy Carpenter and the majority of the JLT Employee Benefits business is included in Mercer Health and Wealth. The JLT Transaction had a significant impact on the Company’s results of operations in 2020. The Company believes that in addition to the change in reported GAAP revenue, a comparison of 2020 GAAP reported revenue to the combined 2019 revenue of MMC and JLT, as if the companies were combined on January 1, 2019, provides investors with meaningful information as to the Company’s year-over-year underlying operating results. Investors should not consider the comparison of these non-GAAP measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, the financial information that the Company reports in accordance with GAAP. The "2019 Including JLT" revenue information set forth in the table below presents revenue information as if the companies were combined on January 1, 2019 and is not necessarily indicative of what the results would have been had we operated the business since January 1, 2019. The MMC revenue amounts are as previously reported by the Company in its annual filing of Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. JLT 2019 revenue information is derived using the same policies and adjustments as the "JLT Supplemental Information - Revenue Analysis" furnished to the SEC on June 6, 2019 on Form 8-K, which is not incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, and includes the revenue from JLT’s aerospace business. 57 58