********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Our business is subject to various risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict, may materially affect actual results and are often outside of our control.  We identify a number of these risks and uncertainties below.  You should read the following risk factors carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K. This Form 10-K contains statements concerning our expectations, plans, objectives, future financial performance and other statements that are not historical facts.  You can identify these forward-looking statements by use of words such as “strategy,” “expects,” “continues,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “will,” “estimates,” “forecasts,” “intends,” “projects,” “goals,” “objectives,” “guidance,” “targets” and other words of similar meaning.  You can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans, estimates and assumptions.  Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate.  If risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying estimates or assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from those anticipated.  You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements and whether to invest in or remain invested in our securities.  Under the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we identify important factors that, individually or in the aggregate, could cause actual results and outcomes, including with respect to our ability to achieve our Vision, to differ materially from those contained in, or implied by, any forward-looking statements we make.  We elaborate on these important factors and the risks we face throughout this Form 10-K, particularly in the “Executive Summary” and “Business Environment” sections preceding our discussion of the operating results of our segments in Item 7.  You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all factors and risks.  Consequently, you should not consider the foregoing list to be complete.  We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that we may make from time to time except as required by applicable law. 5 Risks Relating to Our Business Business Operations Risks We may be unsuccessful in anticipating and responding to changes in adult tobacco consumer preferences and purchase behavior, including as a result of difficult economic conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Our operating companies’ portfolios of tobacco products are largely comprised of premium brands, such as Marlboro , Copenhagen and Skoal .  As adult tobacco consumer preferences evolve, consumers are increasingly moving across tobacco categories.  The willingness of adult tobacco consumers to purchase premium brands is affected by macroeconomic conditions, including inflation and overall economic stability.  In periods of economic uncertainty and high inflation, among other conditions, we have observed adult tobacco consumers reduce consumption, purchase more discount brands and consider lower-priced tobacco products, including different categories of tobacco products than those they traditionally purchase. Our ability to effectively respond to new and evolving adult tobacco consumer purchase behavior catalyzed by challenging macroeconomic conditions and changes in adult tobacco consumer preferences depends on our ability to promote brand equity successfully among our premium and discount brands and broaden our product portfolios across price-points and categories, including by bringing to market new and innovative tobacco products that appeal to adult tobacco consumers.  Our failure to do so or our failure to anticipate changing adult tobacco consumer preferences, improve productivity or protect or enhance margins through cost savings and price increases, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. We face significant competition, and our failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position and our ability to achieve our Vision. Our operating companies operate in highly competitive environments.  Significant competition exists with respect to product quality, taste, price, product innovation, marketing, packaging, distribution and promotional activities.  Because many of our operating companies’ products are market leaders, we are subject to antitrust risk.  In addition, as adult tobacco consumer preferences evolve, consumers are increasingly moving across tobacco categories.  Our operating companies’ failure to compete effectively in these environments could negatively impact profitability, market share (including as a result of down-trading to lower-priced competitive brands) and shipment volume, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position and our ability to achieve our Vision. The growth of innovative tobacco products, including e-vapor products and oral nicotine pouches, has contributed to reductions in the consumption levels and industry sales volumes of cigarettes and other tobacco products, including MST.  Furthermore, the sale of illegal flavored disposable e-vapor products has negatively impacted the growth of other e-vapor products.  If we are unable to compete effectively in innovative tobacco product categories, including through internal product development, on! oral nicotine pouch products, NJOY e-vapor products, our participation in Horizon, other potential future partnerships with Japan Tobacco and potential future relationships and investments, such inability could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position and our ability to achieve our Vision. PM USA also faces competition from lower-priced brands sold by certain United States and foreign manufacturers that have cost advantages because they are not parties to settlements of certain healthcare cost recovery litigation in the United States and, as such, are not required to make annual settlement payments as required by the parties to the settlements.  These settlement payments, which are inflation-adjusted, are significant for PM USA and have contributed to substantial cigarette price increases to help cover their cost.  Manufacturers not party to the settlements are subject to state escrow legislation requiring escrow deposits.  Such manufacturers may avoid these escrow obligations by concentrating on certain states where escrow deposits are not required or are required on fewer than all such manufacturers’ cigarettes sold in such states.  Additional competition has resulted from diversion into the United States market of cigarettes intended for sale outside the United States, diversion of tobacco products intended for sale in one taxing jurisdiction within the United States into another taxing jurisdiction, the sale of counterfeit cigarettes by third parties, the sale of cigarettes by third parties over the Internet and by other means designed to avoid collection of applicable taxes, and imports of foreign lower-priced brands.  Competition may also result from tax advantages available to companies with significant imports and exports of finished goods.  The market shares of our operating companies’ products also have been negatively impacted by increases in competitive discount product share for cigarettes and MST products, as price sensitive adult tobacco consumers react to their economic conditions.  Our failure to compete with lower-priced cigarette brands and counter the impacts of illicit trade in tobacco products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. In the e-vapor category, illegal flavored disposable product usage has increased, and such products comprise a significant portion of the e-vapor category, which has increased the rate of cross-category movement among adult cigarette smokers and contributed to higher than expected domestic cigarette industry volume decline.  We have increased engagement with the FDA and other government agencies and taken legal action to protect our lawful e-vapor business, which expose us to additional costs and expenses.  Our failure to counter the impacts of illegal flavored disposable e-vapor products and the FDA’s failure to take enforcement actions against manufacturers and products that violate the law could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. 6 We may be unsuccessful in commercializing innovative products, including tobacco products with reduced health risks relative to certain other tobacco products and that appeal to adult tobacco consumers, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position and our ability to achieve our Vision. We have growth strategies involving innovative products that may have reduced health risks relative to certain other tobacco products, while continuing to offer adult tobacco consumers (within and outside the United States) products that meet their taste expectations and evolving preferences.  These strategies include products in the e-vapor, heated tobacco and oral nicotine pouch spaces.  For example, we have plans to increase the distribution of NJOY products, enhance NJOY ACE ’s brand equity, increase the brand’s awareness and appeal and receive FDA authorizations on certain NJOY products.  If we are not successful in executing these strategies, there could be a material negative impact on our business and our ability to achieve our Vision. The success of Horizon, our joint venture with JTIUH for the marketing and commercialization of HTS products in the United States, in generating new revenue streams by commercializing current and future HTS products owned by us or Japan Tobacco is dependent upon a number of factors.  These factors include (i) receipt of regulatory authorizations, (ii) prevailing economic, market, regulatory or business conditions, or changes in such conditions, negatively affecting the parties or their plans for future collaboration and partnerships, (iii) changes in market or other conditions resulting in unanticipated delays in the design and development of future products or the commencement of test launches, (iv) the outcome of any legal proceedings or investigations that may be instituted against the parties or others related to the joint venture, (v) changes in the preferences of U.S. adult tobacco consumers, (vi) the failure to meet commercialization milestones and (vii) the ability of the parties to enter into future partnerships on terms acceptable to both parties and in the expected manner or timeframe, if at all.  Such factors could have a negative effect on our ability to generate new revenue streams and enter new geographic markets. If we do not succeed in commercializing innovative tobacco products that appeal to adult tobacco consumers or we fail to obtain or maintain regulatory authorization for the marketing or sale of these products, including with claims of reduced health risks, we could be at a competitive disadvantage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position and our ability to achieve our Vision. Failure to complete or manage strategic transactions, including acquisitions, dispositions, joint ventures and investments in third parties, or realize the anticipated benefits of such transactions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and our ability to achieve our Vision. We regularly evaluate potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions, dispositions, joint ventures and investments in third parties.  Opportunities for strategic transactions may be limited, and the success of any such transaction is dependent upon our ability to complete and realize the expected benefits of the transaction in the expected time frame or at all.  Following the completion of a transaction there may be certain financial, managerial, staffing and talent and operational risks, including diversion of management’s attention from existing core businesses, difficulties integrating other businesses into existing operations and other challenges presented by a transaction that does not achieve anticipated sales levels and profitability.  We may not be able to enter into attractive business relationships or execute and complete strategic transactions on favorable terms or at all, and any such relationships or transactions may not improve our competitive position or have the intended financial outcomes.  For example, our former investment in JUUL did not result in and, to date, our investment in Cronos has not, resulted in the economic and competitive advantages expected at the time the investments were made. We may not be able to realize the expected benefits of the NJOY Transaction in the expected manner or timeframe, if at all, including due to failure to receive or maintain regulatory authorizations, changes in adult tobacco consumer preferences, failure to comply with regulatory requirements, prevailing economic, market, regulatory or business conditions, or changes in such conditions, negatively affecting our business and our plans with respect to the e-vapor category, the outcome of any legal proceeding or investigation that may be instituted against the parties or others related to the NJOY Transaction or NJOY or its products and the occurrence of any event requiring us to write down the value of NJOY’s intangible assets, including trademarks and goodwill, due to impairment. If the NJOY Transaction or any other acquisition, disposition, joint venture, investment in a third party or other strategic relationship is not successful, there could be a material negative impact on our business, financial position and results of operations and our ability to achieve our Vision. Significant changes in price, availability or quality of tobacco, other raw materials or component parts could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and business. Shifts in crops (such as those driven by macroeconomic conditions and adverse weather patterns), government restrictions and mandated prices, production control programs, economic trade sanctions, import duties and tariffs, international trade disruptions, inflation, geopolitical instability, climate and environmental changes and disruptions due to man-made or natural disasters may increase the cost or reduce the supply or quality of tobacco, other raw materials, ingredients or component parts used to manufacture our products.  Any significant change in such factors could restrict our ability to continue manufacturing and marketing existing products or impact adult tobacco consumer product acceptability and have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability. 7 For varieties of tobacco only available in limited geographies, government-mandated prices and production control programs, political instability or government prohibitions on the import or export of tobacco in certain countries pose additional risks to price, availability and quality.  In addition, as consumer demand increases for innovative smoke-free products and decreases for combustible and MST products, the volume of tobacco leaf required for production of these products has decreased, resulting in reduced tobacco leaf demand.  Reduced demand may result in the reduced supply and availability of domestic tobacco as growers divert resources to other crops or cease farming.  The unavailability or unacceptability of any one or more particular varieties of tobacco leaf or the unavailability of nicotine extract necessary to manufacture our operating companies’ products could restrict our ability to continue marketing existing products or impact adult tobacco consumer product acceptability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability.  In addition, the nicotine used in our operating companies’ innovative smoke-free products is extracted from tobacco produced in one country.  If we are unable to identify alternate sources of nicotine for our operating companies’ innovative products, we could be exposed to the risks discussed above. Current macroeconomic conditions and geopolitical instability (including inflation, high interest rates, labor shortages, supply and demand imbalances, geopolitical instability and international armed conflicts) are causing worldwide disruptions and delays to supply chains and commercial markets, which limit access to, and increase the cost of, raw materials, ingredients and component parts (for example, tobacco leaf and resins and aluminum used in our packaging).  Furthermore, challenging economic conditions can create the risk that our suppliers, distributors, logistics providers or other third-party partners suffer financial or operational difficulties, which may impact their ability to provide us with or distribute finished product, raw materials and component parts and services in a timely manner or at all. In addition, government taxes, restrictions and prohibitions on the sale and use of certain products may limit access to, and increase the costs of, raw materials and component parts and, potentially, impede our ability to sell certain of our products.  For example, certain states have passed extended producer responsibility legislation concerning packaging.  Because certain of our products’ packaging consists of single-use plastics, single-use plastic bans and extended producer responsibility mandates could result in bans on some of our product packaging or our products and adversely impact our costs and revenues.  Additional taxes and limitations on the use of certain single-use plastics have been proposed by the U.S. Congress and various state and local governments.  These existing and potential future laws and regulations could increase the costs of, and impair our ability to, source certain materials used in the packaging for our products. If we are unable to compensate for supply shortages or elevated commodity and other costs through sustained price increases, cost efficiencies, such as in manufacturing and distribution, or otherwise manage the exposure through sourcing strategies, the limited use of commodity hedging contracts or through other initiatives, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted. Our operating companies rely on a few significant facilities and a small number of key suppliers, distributors and distribution chain service providers, and an extended disruption at a facility or in service by a supplier, distributor or distribution chain service provider could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Our operating companies face risks inherent in reliance on a few significant manufacturing facilities and a small number of key suppliers, distributors and distribution chain service providers.  A natural or man-made disaster, cybersecurity incident, global pandemic or other disruption that affects the manufacturing operations of any of our operating companies, the operations of any key supplier, distributor or distribution chain service provider of any of our operating companies or any other disruption in the supply or distribution of goods or services (including a key supplier’s inability to comply with government regulations, lack of available workers or unwillingness to supply goods or services to a tobacco company) could adversely impact operations.  Operations of our operating companies, suppliers, distributors and distribution chain service providers could be suspended temporarily once or multiple times, or halted permanently, depending on various factors.  An extended disruption in operations experienced by one or more of our operating companies or in the supply or distribution of goods or services by one or more key suppliers, distributors or distribution chain service providers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. We may be required to write down intangible assets, including trademarks and goodwill, due to impairment, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. We periodically calculate the fair value of our reporting units and intangible assets to test for impairment.  This calculation may be affected by several factors, including general macroeconomic conditions, government actions, including FDA regulatory actions and inaction, changes in category growth (decline) rates as a result of changing adult tobacco consumer preferences, success of planned new product expansions, competitive activity, unfavorable outcomes with respect to litigation proceedings, including actions brought against us alleging patent infringement, and income and excise taxes.  Certain events also can trigger an immediate review of intangible assets.  If an impairment is determined to exist, we will incur impairment losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. 8 We could decide, or be required to, recall products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. We could decide, or laws or regulations could require us, to recall products due to the failure to meet quality standards or specifications, suspected or confirmed and deliberate or unintentional product contamination, or other product adulteration, misbranding or tampering.  A product recall or a product liability or other claim (even if unsuccessful or without merit) could have negative economic consequences and also generate negative publicity about us and our products.  In addition, if another company recalls or experiences negative publicity related to a product in a category in which we compete, adult tobacco consumers might reduce their overall consumption of products in the category.  Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. We face various risks related to health epidemics and pandemics, and such events, and the measures that international, federal, state and local governments, agencies, law enforcement and health authorities implement to address them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. An epidemic, pandemic or other significant public health emergency, and the measures taken by governmental authorities to address it, could significantly disrupt our ability to operate our businesses in the ordinary course.  Furthermore, any associated economic consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. If any public health emergency were to occur in the future, we could experience negative impacts.  In addition, the specific characteristics of any future public health emergency and associated governmental responses could result in other negative impacts that we cannot foresee.  Accordingly, any future emergence or resurgence of an epidemic, pandemic or other public health emergency could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. We may be unable to attract and retain a highly skilled and diverse workforce due to the decreasing social acceptance of tobacco usage, tobacco control actions and other factors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to achieve our Vision. Our ability to implement our strategy of attracting and retaining a highly skilled and diverse workforce may be impaired by the decreasing social acceptance of tobacco usage, tobacco regulation and control actions and other factors.  The tobacco industry competes for talent with the consumer products industry and other companies that may enjoy greater societal acceptance and fewer long-term challenges.  As a result, we may be unable to attract and retain highly skilled and diverse talent.  In addition, our ability to retain a highly skilled and diverse workforce may be adversely affected by competition for highly skilled and diverse workers.  Failure to attract and retain highly skilled and diverse talent could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to achieve our Vision. Litigation, Legislative and Regulatory Risks Unfavorable outcomes with respect to litigation proceedings or any governmental investigations could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial position and our ability to achieve our Vision. Legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters are pending or threatened in various U.S. and foreign jurisdictions against us and our subsidiaries, including PM USA, as well as our and their respective indemnitees and indemnitors.  Various types of claims may be raised in these proceedings, including product liability, unfair trade practices, antitrust, tax, contraband-related claims, patent infringement, employment matters, claims alleging violations of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (“RICO”), claims for contribution and claims of competitors, shareholders and distributors.  Legislative action, such as changes to tort law, also may expand the types of claims and remedies available to plaintiffs. Competitors and other third parties have brought and may in the future bring action against us, our subsidiaries and/or our suppliers alleging patent infringement.  Such claims, regardless of merit, expose us to significant litigation costs and damages, importation bans with respect to products and product components manufactured abroad, divert management’s attention and compromise our operating companies’ abilities to commercialize and improve their products.  This risk is especially pertinent to smoke-free products where technology continues advancing rapidly, resulting in a high volume of patents in relevant technology spaces.  In a patent lawsuit adjudicated before the U.S. International Trade Commission (“ITC”), the ITC banned the importation of IQOS devices, Marlboro HeatSticks and component parts into the United States and the sale and marketing of any such products previously imported into the United States.  As a result of the ITC’s decision, PM USA removed the IQOS devices, Marlboro HeatSticks and any infringing components from the marketplace.  In a separate patent lawsuit brought by JUUL currently pending before the ITC, the ITC could impose similar restrictions on NJOY ACE .  Any ban on the importation or sale of NJOY ACE could have a negative impact on our business, our valuation of NJOY’s assets and our plans with respect to the e-vapor category. In certain litigation, we and our subsidiaries may face potentially significant non-monetary remedies in addition to importation bans that could have a material adverse effect on our businesses.  For example, in the Federal Government’s lawsuit alleging that certain defendants, including Altria and PM USA, violated RICO and engaged in certain “sub-schemes” to defraud, the district court did not impose monetary penalties but ordered significant non-monetary remedies, including the issuance of “corrective statements.” 9 Litigation is subject to significant uncertainty, and there could be adverse developments in pending or future cases.  An unfavorable outcome or settlement of pending tobacco-related or other litigation could encourage the commencement of additional litigation.  Damages claimed in some tobacco-related or other litigation are significant and, in certain cases, have ranged in the billions of dollars.  The variability in pleadings in multiple jurisdictions and the actual experience of management in litigating claims demonstrate that the monetary relief that may be specified in a lawsuit bears little relevance to the ultimate outcome. In certain cases, plaintiffs claim that defendants’ liability is joint and several.  In such cases, we may face the risk that one or more co-defendants decline or otherwise fail to participate in the bonding required for an appeal or to pay their proportionate or jury-allocated share of a judgment.  As a result, we may have to pay more than our proportionate share of any bonding- or judgment-related amounts under certain circumstances.  Furthermore, in cases where plaintiffs are successful, we also may be required to pay interest and attorneys’ fees. Although we historically have been able to obtain required bonds or relief from bonding requirements in order to prevent plaintiffs from seeking to collect judgments while adverse verdicts have been appealed, there remains a risk that such relief may not be obtainable in all cases.  This risk has been substantially reduced given that 47 states and Puerto Rico now limit the dollar amount of bonds or require no bond at all.  However, tobacco litigation plaintiffs have challenged the constitutionality of Florida’s bond cap statute in several cases and plaintiffs may challenge state bond cap statutes in other jurisdictions as well.  Such challenges may include the applicability of state bond caps in federal court.  Although we cannot predict the outcome of such challenges, it is possible that our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position could be materially adversely affected in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome of one or more such challenges. Each of Altria and our subsidiaries named as a defendant in pending litigation believes, and each has been so advised by counsel handling the respective cases, that it has valid defenses to the litigation pending against it, as well as valid bases for appeal of adverse verdicts. We have defended, and will continue to defend, vigorously against litigation challenges.  However, we may enter into settlement discussions in particular cases if we believe it is in our best interests to do so. We cannot predict the outcome of any litigation proceedings or governmental investigations, and unfavorable outcomes in any such proceedings or investigations could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Significant federal, state and local governmental actions, including FDA regulatory actions and inaction, and various private sector actions may continue to have a material adverse impact on our operating companies’ sales volumes and our business. We face significant governmental and private sector actions, including efforts aimed at reducing the incidence of tobacco use and seeking to hold us responsible for the adverse health effects associated with both smoking and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke.  These actions, combined with the diminishing social acceptance of smoking, have resulted in reduced cigarette industry volume, and we expect that these factors will continue to reduce cigarette consumption levels, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. We cannot predict whether regulators, including the FDA, will permit the marketing or sale of any particular innovative products (including products with claims of reduced risk to adult tobacco consumers) or whether they will impose a burdensome regulatory framework on such products.  In addition, the FDA could, for a variety of reasons, determine that innovative products on the market but pending FDA review of the associated PMTA (such as on! oral nicotine pouches), or those that have previously received authorization, including with a claim of reduced exposure, are not appropriate for the public health, and the FDA could require such products be taken off the market.  We also cannot predict whether or to what extent the FDA will take enforcement actions against manufacturers and products that violate the law. The actions and inaction of regulators, including the FDA, can result in competitive challenges.  For example, unpredictable regulatory review periods complicate efforts to strategize and plan with respect to commercialization of a new product once its PMTA is authorized, and we cannot predict or influence the speed with which the FDA reviews PMTAs.  A protracted FDA review of a PMTA with respect to our product would allow competitive products already on the market to establish market share, brand recognition and adult tobacco consumer loyalty in the absence of competition from our product.  Additionally, we cannot control the order in which the FDA reviews PMTAs.  The FDA could review a PMTA for a competitor’s product before it reviews a PMTA submitted by one of our operating companies with respect to a competing product notwithstanding that our operating company submitted its PMTA first.  Scenarios such as these would put us at a competitive disadvantage, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, profitability and our ability to achieve our Vision. In addition to the outcomes discussed above, actions and inaction by the FDA and other federal, state or local governments or agencies can (i) impact the adult tobacco consumer acceptability of or access to tobacco products (for example, through nicotine or constituent limits or menthol or other flavor bans), (ii) limit adult tobacco consumer choices, (iii) restrict communications to adult tobacco consumers, (iv) restrict the ability to differentiate tobacco products, (v) impose additional manufacturing, labeling or packing requirements, (vi) interrupt manufacturing or otherwise significantly increase the cost of doing business, (vii) result in increased illicit trade in tobacco products, (viii) restrict or prevent the use of specified tobacco products in certain locations or the sale of tobacco 10 products by certain retail establishments, (ix) require the recall of tobacco products due to a determination relating to product contamination or (x) otherwise require the removal of tobacco products from the marketplace (for example, due to a determination that one or more tobacco products fail to satisfy the statutory requirements for substantial equivalence, must proceed through the pre-market review process or must be removed from the marketplace for the protection of public health). Any federal, state or local governmental action, including regulatory actions and inaction by the FDA, may have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position.  Such action and inaction also could negatively impact adult smokers’ transition to these products, which could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve our Vision. Tobacco products are subject to substantial taxation, and any increases in tobacco product-related taxes could have a material adverse impact on sales of our operating companies’ products. Tobacco products are subject to substantial taxation, including excise taxes.  Significant increases in taxes or fees on tobacco products (including traditional products as well as e-vapor and oral nicotine products) have been proposed or enacted and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted within the United States at the federal, state and local levels.  The frequency and magnitude of excise tax increases can be influenced by various factors, including federal and state budgets and the composition of executive and legislative bodies.  Tax increases are expected to continue to have an adverse impact on sales of our operating companies’ tobacco products through lower consumption levels and the potential shift in adult tobacco consumer purchases from the premium to the non-premium or discount segments, to other low-priced or low-taxed tobacco products or to counterfeit and contraband products.  Such shifts may also have an adverse impact on the reported share performance of our tobacco products.  Any increases in tobacco-related taxes or fees could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position.  In addition, substantial excise tax increases on e-vapor and oral nicotine products could negatively impact adult smokers’ transition to these products, which could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve our Vision. International business operations subject us to various U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, and violations of such laws or regulations could result in reputational harm, legal challenges and significant penalties and other costs. While we are primarily engaged in business activities in the United States, we engage (directly or indirectly) in certain international business activities that are subject to various U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, such as foreign privacy laws, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other laws prohibiting bribery and corruption. Although we have a Code of Conduct for Compliance and Integrity and a compliance system designed to prevent and detect violations of applicable law, no system can provide assurance that it will always protect against improper actions by employees, joint venture partners, investees or third parties. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations could result in reputational harm, legal challenges and significant penalties and other costs. A challenge to our tax positions, an increase in the income tax rate or other changes to federal or state tax laws could materially adversely affect our earnings or cash flows. Tax laws and regulations are complex and subject to varying interpretations.  A successful challenge to one or more of our tax positions (which could give rise to additional liabilities, including interest and potential penalties), an increase in the corporate income tax rate or other changes to federal or state tax laws, including changes to how foreign investments are taxed, could materially adversely affect our earnings or cash flows. Legal and regulatory requirements related to climate change and other environmental sustainability matters could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. The increased concern over climate change and other sustainability matters is likely to result in new or additional legal and regulatory requirements intended to reduce or mitigate environmental issues and may relate to, among other things, greenhouse gas emissions, alternative energy policy, single-use plastics and additional disclosure obligations with respect to climate change and environmental sustainability matters. This additional regulation could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition by increasing our compliance and manufacturing costs and negatively impacting our reputation if we are unable to, or are perceived not to, satisfy such requirements. Capital Markets and Financing Risks Disruption and uncertainty in the credit and capital markets could materially adversely affect our business. Access to the credit and capital markets is important for us to satisfy our liquidity and financing needs.  We typically access the commercial paper market in the second quarter to help fund payments under the Master Settlement Agreement (the “MSA”), tax obligations and shareholder dividends.  Disruption and uncertainty in the credit or capital markets or high interest rates could negatively impact the availability or cost of capital and adversely affect our liquidity, cash flow, earnings and dividend rate.  In addition, tighter credit markets could lead to business disruptions for our suppliers and service providers, which could, in turn, materially adversely impact our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 11 A downgrade or potential downgrade of our credit ratings could adversely impact our borrowing costs and access to credit and capital markets, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition. Rating agencies routinely evaluate us, and their ratings are based on a number of factors, including our cash generating capability, levels of indebtedness, policies with respect to shareholder distributions, the impact of strategic transactions and our financial strength generally, as well as factors beyond our control, such as the state of the economy and our industry. A ny downgrade or announcement that we are under review for a potential downgrade of our credit ratings, as occurred following our former investment in JUUL, especially any downgrade to below investment grade, could increase our future borrowing costs, impair our ability to access the credit and capital markets, including the commercial paper market, on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all or result in a reduction in our liquidity, requiring us to rely on more expensive types of financing .  Any such outcome could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. We may be unable to attract investors due to increasing investor expectations of our performance relating to corporate responsibility factors. There has been a heightened focus from investors and other stakeholders on corporate responsibility, including with respect to environmental, social and governance matters.  In response, there has been an increase in third-party providers of assessments and ratings to satisfy investor demand for measurement of corporate responsibility performance, and the criteria by which these third parties measure such performance may vary or change over time.  Investors may use these non-financial performance factors to guide investment strategies and, in some cases, may choose not to invest in us if their policies prevent them from investing in tobacco companies or if they believe our policies, actions or disclosures on corporate responsibility issues are inadequate. There is also increased focus, including by governmental and non-governmental organizations, investors, trade customers, consumers, our employees and other stakeholders, on sustainability matters. Despite our efforts, any failure to achieve our corporate responsibility goals, including those aimed at reducing the harm associated with our companies’ products and our underage tobacco prevention goals, could result in adverse publicity, materially adversely affect our business and reputation and impair our ability to attract and retain investors, which could have a material negative impact on the market value of our stock. Information Technology and Data Privacy Risks The failure of our, or our service providers’, key suppliers’ or trade customers’, information systems to function as intended, or cyber-attacks or security breaches, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. We rely extensively on information technology, much of which is managed by third-party service providers (such as cloud data service providers), to support a variety of business processes and activities, including: complying with regulatory, legal, financial reporting and tax requirements; engaging in marketing and e-commerce activities; managing and improving the effectiveness of our operations; researching, developing, manufacturing and distributing our products; collecting and storing sensitive data and confidential information; and communicating with employees, investors, suppliers, trade customers, adult tobacco consumers and others.  Our suppliers, supply chain service providers and trade customers also rely extensively on information systems.  We continue to make appropriate investments in administrative, technical and physical safeguards to protect our information systems and data from cyber-threats, including human error and malicious acts.  Our safeguards include employee training, testing and auditing protocols, backup systems and business continuity plans, maintenance of security policies and procedures, monitoring of networks and systems, and third-party risk management. From time-to-time, we and our service providers, suppliers and trade customers experience attempts to infiltrate and interrupt information systems.  To date, interruptions of these information systems as a result of infiltration attempts have not had a material impact on our operations.  However, because technology is increasingly complex and cyber-attacks are increasingly sophisticated and more frequent, there can be no assurance that such incidents will not have a material adverse effect on us in the future.  For example, the rapid evolution and increased adoption of artificial intelligence technologies may intensify our and our service providers’, key suppliers’ and trade customers’ cybersecurity risks.  Failure of our, or our service providers’, key suppliers’ or trade customers’, information systems to function as intended, or cyber-attacks or security breaches, could result in loss of revenue, assets, personal data, intellectual property, trade secrets or other sensitive and confidential data, violation of applicable privacy and data security laws, reputational harm to the companies and their brands, operational disruptions, legal challenges and significant remediation and other costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our failure, or the failure of our service providers, key suppliers or trade customers, to comply with personal data protection, privacy, artificial intelligence and information security laws could materially adversely affect our business. We and our service providers, key suppliers and trade customers are subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations in numerous jurisdictions regarding personal data protection, privacy, artificial intelligence and information security. These laws and regulations may be interpreted and applied differently from country to country or, within the United States, from state to state, and can create inconsistent or conflicting requirements. Our efforts, and the efforts of our service providers, key suppliers and trade customers, to comply with these laws and regulations impose significant costs and challenges that are likely to continue to increase 12 over time, particularly as additional jurisdictions adopt similar regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations or to otherwise protect personal data from unauthorized access, use or other processing, could result in litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, inquiries or investigations, damage to our reputation, fines, penalties and business disruptions, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Relating to Our Investments in Equity Securities The expected benefits of our investment in ABI may not materialize in the expected manner or timeframe or at all, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial position or earnings. The expected benefits of our investment in ABI may not materialize in the expected manner or timeframe or at all, including due to foreign currency exchange rates; ABI’s business results; ABI’s share price; impairment losses on the value of our investment; our incurrence of additional tax liabilities related to our investment in ABI; and potential reductions in the number of directors that we can have appointed to the ABI board of directors. We account for our investment in ABI under the equity method of accounting.  For purposes of financial reporting, the earnings from and carrying value of our investment in ABI are translated into U.S. dollars (“USD”) from various local currencies.  In addition, ABI pays dividends in euros, which we convert into USD.  During times of a strengthening USD against these currencies, our reported earnings from and carrying value of our investment in ABI will be reduced because these currencies will translate into fewer USD and the dividends that we receive from ABI will convert into fewer USD.  Dividends and earnings from and carrying value of our investment in ABI are also subject to the risks encountered by ABI in its business, its business outlook, cash flow requirements and financial performance, the state of the market and the general economic climate.  For example, in 2020, as a result of the uncertainty, volatility and impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on ABI’s business, ABI reduced by 50% its final 2019 dividend paid in the second quarter of 2020 and did not pay its interim 2020 dividend that would have been paid in the fourth quarter of 2020, which resulted in a reduction of cash dividends we received from ABI. We assess the value of our investment in ABI as required by United States generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).  If the carrying value of our investment in ABI exceeds its fair value and any loss in value is other than temporary, we record appropriate impairment losses.  In a prior period, we concluded that the fair value of our investment in ABI declined below the carrying value of our investment in ABI and that this decline in fair value was other than temporary.  As a result, we recorded a non-cash, pre-tax impairment charge for that period.  It is possible that we may be required to record significant impairment charges in the future and, if we do so, our net income and carrying value of our investment in ABI could be materially adversely affected. In the event that our ownership percentage in ABI were to decrease below certain levels, (i) we may be subject to additional tax liabilities, (ii) the number of directors that we have the right to have appointed to the ABI board of directors could be reduced from two to one or zero and (iii) we may be unable to continue to account for our investment in ABI under the equity method of accounting. Our investment in Cronos subjects us to certain risks associated with Cronos’s business, including legal, regulatory and reputational risks. Our investment in Cronos, a Canadian cannabinoid company, subjects us to various risks relating to Cronos’s business, such as legal, regulatory and reputational risks.  Cronos is engaged in the cultivation, manufacture and marketing of cannabis and cannabis-derived products for the medical and adult-use markets in various international jurisdictions.  Accordingly, Cronos’s operations are subject to laws, regulations and guidelines promulgated by various governmental authorities.  In the United States, these laws include the Controlled Substances Act, the Civil Assets Forfeiture Reform Act (as it relates to violation of the Controlled Substances Act), all related applicable anti-money laundering laws and FDA regulations.  A failure by Cronos or Altria to comply with applicable laws, including cannabis laws, could result in criminal, civil or tax liability, negative impacts on the availability and cost of capital and credit or reputational harm for Altria.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the other sections of this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes contained in Item 8, and the discussion of risk factors that may affect future results in Item 1A.  Additionally, refer to Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) in our 2022 Annual Report on Form 10-K for management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, which we filed with the SEC on February 27, 2023 and is incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. In this MD&A section, we refer to the following “adjusted” financial measures: adjusted operating companies income (loss) (“OCI”); adjusted OCI margins; adjusted net earnings; adjusted diluted earnings per share (“EPS”); and adjusted effective tax rates.  We also refer to the ratio of debt-to-Consolidated EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, as defined in our credit agreement, which includes certain adjustments).  These financial measures are not required by, or calculated in accordance with, United States generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and may not be calculated the same as similarly titled measures used by other companies.  These financial measures should thus be considered as supplemental in nature and not considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.  For a further description of these non-GAAP financial measures, see the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section below. Executive Summary Our Business We have a leading portfolio of tobacco products for U.S. tobacco consumers age 21+.  Our Vision is to responsibly lead the transition of adult smokers to a smoke-free future.  We are Moving Beyond Smoking TM , leading the way in moving adult smokers away from cigarettes by taking action to transition millions to potentially less harmful choices - believing it is a substantial opportunity for adult tobacco consumers, our businesses and society. As we execute on our Vision, we established our 2028 Enterprise Goals (“2028 Goals”) to provide our investors with specific metrics to measure our progress.  Our 2028 Goals are: Corporate ▪ Deliver a mid-single digits adjusted diluted EPS compounded annual growth rate in 2028 from a $4.84 base in 2022; ▪ A progressive dividend goal targeting mid-single digits dividend per share growth annually through 2028; ▪ Target a debt-to-Consolidated EBITDA ratio of approximately 2.0x; ▪ Maintain our leadership position in the U.S. tobacco space; and 18 ▪ Maintain a total adjusted OCI margin of at least 60% in each year through 2028 while investing behind innovative smoke-free products. U.S. Smoke-Free Portfolio ▪ Grow U.S. smoke-free volumes by at least 35% from our 2022 base of 800 million units by 2028; and ▪ Approximately double our U.S. smoke-free net revenues to $5 billion by 2028 from our 2022 base, with $2 billion sourced from innovative smoke-free products. Long-Term Growth ▪ Compete internationally in the top innovative oral tobacco markets and develop a pathway to participate in heated tobacco and e-vapor markets; and ▪ Enter non-nicotine categories with broad commercial distribution of at least five products by 2028. See Operating Results by Business Segment and Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional information on total adjusted OCI margin and debt-to-Consolidated EBITDA, respectively. Our wholly owned subsidiaries include leading manufacturers of both combustible and smoke-free products.  In combustibles, we own PM USA, the most profitable U.S. cigarette manufacturer, and Middleton, a leading U.S. cigar manufacturer. In smoke-free products, we own USSTC, the leading global MST manufacturer, Helix, a leading manufacturer of oral nicotine pouches and NJOY, currently the only e-vapor manufacturer with market authorizations from the FDA for a pod-based e-vapor product.  Additionally, we have a majority-owned joint venture, Horizon, for the U.S. marketing and commercialization of HTS products and, through a separate agreement, we have the exclusive U.S. commercialization rights to the IQOS System and Marlboro HeatSticks through April 2024.  As of this filing, there are no products in the U.S. marketplace from the joint venture or exclusive rights agreement. On June 1, 2023, we acquired NJOY Holdings.  For further details, see Note 3. Acquisition of NJOY to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 (“Note 3”). In March 2023, we entered into the Stock Transfer Agreement and, in exchange, we received a non-exclusive, irrevocable global license to certain of JUUL’s heated tobacco intellectual property. The brand portfolios of our operating companies include Marlboro , Black & Mild , Copenhagen , Skoal , on! and NJOY .  Trademarks related to Altria referenced in this Form 10-K are the property of Altria or our subsidiaries or are used with permission. Our investments in equity securities include ABI, the world’s largest brewer, and Cronos, a leading Canadian cannabinoid company. For a description of Altria, see Item 1. Business of this Form 10-K (“Item 1”). Trends and Developments In this MD&A section, we discuss factors that have impacted our business as of the date of this Form 10-K.  In addition, we are aware of and address, in this section and other MD&A sections, certain trends and developments that could, individually or in the aggregate, have a material impact on our business, including the value of our investments in equity securities, in the future.  We focus in this Trends and Developments section on the cumulative effects of inflation, geopolitical events, recent regulatory actions, supply chain disruptions and illegal flavored disposable e-vapor products and their effects or potential effects on our business, including impacts on adult tobacco consumers and their purchasing behaviors. We continue to monitor the evolving macroeconomic and geopolitical landscapes.  While the annual rate of inflation declined during 2023, inflation remains above the Federal Reserve’s target of 2%, which is a key benchmark for the Federal Reserve in determining the timing and magnitude of changes to the federal funds rate.  We continue to observe discretionary income pressures on adult tobacco consumers as a result of the cumulative effects of inflation and higher consumer debt levels.  During 2023, cigarette retail share for the industry discount segment increased year-over-year.  We will continue to monitor the effect of these dynamics on adult tobacco consumer purchase behaviors, including overall tobacco product expenditures, mix between premium and discount brand purchases and adoption of smoke-free products.  We expect discretionary income pressures to continue to influence adult tobacco consumers’ purchase behaviors in 2024.  Inflation also has a direct and adverse impact on our direct and indirect costs. In the e-vapor category, illegal flavored disposable product usage increased in 2023 and currently comprises over 50% of the e-vapor category.  The primary impacts of this trend have been an increase in the rate of cross-category movement among adult cigarette smokers, contributing to higher than expected domestic cigarette industry volume declines as well as declines in pod-based product volume within the e-vapor category. Tobacco companies are subject to broad and evolving regulatory and legislative frameworks that could have a material impact on our business.  For example, the FDA has submitted for final review proposed product standards regarding menthol in cigarettes and characterizing flavors in cigars, and the Biden Administration published plans for future potential regulatory actions that include the FDA’s plans to develop a proposed product standard that would establish a maximum nicotine level for cigarettes and certain other combustible tobacco products.  In California, where a ban on flavored nicotine products went into effect in late 2022, we continue to 19 observe indications of negative unintended consequences of the ban, such as adult tobacco consumer adoption of unregulated products and the development of illicit markets. Volatility in domestic and global economies and disruptions in the supply and distribution chains are expected to continue in 2024, resulting from several factors, including supply and demand imbalances across many commodity sectors, raw materials availability and geopolitical events.  We continue to work to mitigate the potential negative impacts of these macroeconomic and geopolitical dynamics on our businesses through, among other actions, proactive engagement with current and potential suppliers and distributors, the development of alternative sourcing strategies, entry into long-term supply contracts and prudent oversight of our liquidity. See Operating Results by Business Segment - Business Environment for additional information on the trends and developments discussed above. ABI’s business has been and continues to be impacted by foreign exchange rate fluctuations, inflation and commodity cost headwinds.  We will continue to monitor these conditions and other factors as they could affect our equity earnings and dividends that we receive from ABI and the fair value of our investment in ABI. See Note 7 for additional information on our investments in equity securities. The trends and developments discussed above have not had a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements, but we continue to monitor these trends and developments and potential financial impacts.  Additionally, we do not believe that these trends and developments have materially impacted our ability to achieve our Vision.  As the trends and developments discussed above evolve and new ones emerge, we will continue to evaluate the potential impacts on our business, investments and Vision. 20 Consolidated Results of Operations The changes in net earnings and diluted EPS for the year ended December 31, 2023, from the year ended December 31, 2022, were due primarily to the following: For a discussion of special items and other business drivers affecting the comparability of statements of earnings amounts and reconciliations of adjusted earnings and adjusted diluted EPS, see the Consolidated Operating Results section below. ▪ Fewer Shares Outstanding: Fewer shares outstanding were due to shares we repurchased under our share repurchase programs. ▪ Operations: The increase of $47 million in operations (which excludes the impact of special items shown in the table above) was due primarily to: ▪ higher income from our investments in equity securities, net; ▪ higher OCI; and ▪ lower interest and other debt expense, net; partially offset by: ▪ lower net periodic benefit income; and ▪ higher amortization of intangible assets (due primarily to the NJOY Transaction). For further details, see the Consolidated Operating Results and Operating Results by Business Segment sections below. 21 Non-GAAP Financial Measures We report our financial results in accordance with GAAP.  However, our management also reviews certain financial results, including OCI, OCI margins, net earnings and diluted EPS, on an adjusted basis, which excludes certain income and expense items that our management believes are not part of underlying operations.  These items may include, for example, loss on early extinguishment of debt, restructuring charges, asset impairment charges, acquisition, disposition and integration-related items, equity investment-related special items (including any changes in fair value of our former equity investment in JUUL recorded at fair value), certain income tax items, charges associated with tobacco and health and certain other litigation items, and resolutions of certain non-participating manufacturer (“NPM”) adjustment disputes under the MSA (“NPM Adjustment Items”).  In addition, our management reviews the ratio of debt-to-Consolidated EBITDA, which we use as a factor to determine our ability to access the capital markets and make investments in pursuit of our Vision.  Consolidated EBITDA is calculated in accordance with our credit agreement (defined below in Liquidity and Capital Resources ) and includes certain adjustments.  Our management does not view any of these special items to be part of our underlying results as they may be highly variable, may be unusual or infrequent, are difficult to predict and can distort underlying business trends and results.  Our management also reviews income tax rates on an adjusted basis, which may exclude certain income tax items from our reported effective tax rate. Our management believes that the foregoing financial measures provide useful additional insight into underlying business trends and results, and provide a more meaningful comparison of year-over-year results.  Our management uses these financial measures and regularly provides these to our chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) for planning, forecasting and evaluating business and financial performance, including allocating resources and evaluating results relative to employee compensation targets.  The foregoing financial measures are not required by, or calculated in accordance with GAAP and may not be calculated the same as similarly titled measures used by other companies.  The foregoing financial measures should thus be considered as supplemental in nature and not considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.  When we provide a non-GAAP measure in this Form 10-K, we also provide a reconciliation of that non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. Discussion and Analysis Critical Accounting Estimates Note 2 includes a summary of the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.  In most instances, we must use an accounting policy or method because it is the only policy or method permitted under GAAP. The preparation of financial statements includes the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net revenues and expenses during the reporting periods.  If actual amounts are ultimately different from previous estimates, the revisions are included in our consolidated results of operations for the period in which the actual amounts become known.  Historically, the aggregate differences, if any, between our estimates and actual amounts in any year have not had a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. The following is a review of the more significant assumptions and estimates, as well as the accounting policies and methods, used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements: ▪ Revenue Recognition: Our businesses generate substantially all of their revenue from sales contracts with customers.  Our businesses define net revenues as revenues, which include excise taxes and shipping and handling charges billed to customers, net of cash discounts for prompt payment, sales returns (also referred to as returned goods) and sales incentives.  Our businesses exclude from the transaction price sales taxes and value-added taxes imposed at the time of sale. Our businesses record sales incentives, which consist of consumer incentives and trade promotion activities, as a reduction to revenues (a portion of which is based on amounts estimated as being due to wholesalers, retailers and consumers at the end of a period) based principally on historical volume, utilization and redemption rates.  We include expected payments for sales incentives in accrued marketing liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. For further discussion, see Note 4. Revenues from Contracts with Customers to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8. ▪ Depreciation, Amortization, Impairment Testing and Asset Valuation: We depreciate property, plant and equipment and amortize our definite-lived intangible assets using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets.  We depreciate machinery and equipment over periods up to 20 years, and buildings and building improvements over periods up to 50 years.  We amortize definite-lived intangible assets over their estimated useful lives up to 25 years. We review long-lived assets, including definite-lived intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable.  We perform undiscounted operating cash flow analyses to determine if an impairment exists.  These analyses are affected by general economic conditions and projected growth rates.  For purposes of recognition and measurement of an impairment for assets held for use, we group assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which cash flows are separately identifiable.  If we determine that an impairment exists, any related impairment loss is calculated 22 based on fair value.  We base impairment losses on assets to be disposed of, if any, on the estimated proceeds to be received, less costs of disposal.  We also review the estimated remaining useful lives of long-lived assets whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate the lives may have changed. We conduct a required annual review of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for potential impairment, and more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would require us to perform an interim review.  We have the option of first performing a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit or indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform a quantitative impairment test.  If necessary, we will perform a single step quantitative impairment test.  Additionally, we have the option to unconditionally bypass the qualitative assessment and perform a single step quantitative assessment.  If the carrying value of a reporting unit that includes goodwill exceeds its fair value, which is determined using discounted cash flows, goodwill is considered impaired.  We measure the amount of impairment loss as the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of a reporting unit; however, the amount of the impairment loss is limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to a reporting unit.  If the carrying value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value, which is determined using discounted cash flows, we consider the intangible asset to be impaired and reduce the carrying value to fair value in the period identified. Goodwill by reporting unit and indefinite-lived intangible assets at December 31, 2023 were as follows: During 2023, we completed our annual impairment test of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets performed as of  October 1, 2023 and the results of this testing were as follows: ▪ no impairment charges were recorded; ▪ the estimated fair values of the cigarettes, MST and snus products, cigars and oral nicotine pouches reporting units, and the indefinite-lived intangible assets within these reporting units substantially exceeded their carrying values, with the exception of the Skoal trademark within the MST and snus products reporting unit.  At December 31, 2023, the estimated fair value of the Skoal trademark exceeded its carrying value of $3.9 billion by approximately 6% ($0.2 billion).  MST products, including Skoal , have continued to be negatively impacted due in part to evolving adult tobacco consumer preferences, which has resulted in consumers increasingly moving across tobacco categories.  The accelerated growth of innovative tobacco products, including oral nicotine pouches, and the related increase in competitive activity among tobacco categories in 2023 continued to contribute to reductions in sales volumes for MST products, including Skoal .  We believe if there is further acceleration in the decline in sales volume for Skoal that results in material revenue declines, there may be a material adverse effect on the significant assumptions used in performing our valuation, including volume, revenue, income, perpetual growth rate and discount rate.  A hypothetical 1% increase to the discount rate used, our most sensitive assumption, would have resulted in an impairment charge to the Skoal intangible asset of approximately $150 million during 2023.  These adverse effects, including if Skoal ’s actual revenue and income or long-term outlook are significantly different from forecasted performance used to estimate the fair value or if the discount rate used to estimate the fair value increases, could result in a material non-cash impairment of our Skoal trademark in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements; and ▪ as a result of the recent acquisition of NJOY, the fair value of the e-vapor reporting unit approximates its carrying value.  However, we performed a qualitative impairment assessment and concluded that it was more likely than not that the fair value of the e-vapor reporting unit exceeded its carrying value. During 2022, our quantitative annual impairment test of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets resulted in no impairment charges. In 2023, we elected to perform a qualitative assessment for certain of our reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets.  This qualitative assessment included the review of certain macroeconomic factors and entity-specific qualitative factors to determine if it was more likely than not that the fair values of our reporting units were below carrying value.  For certain of our other reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets, we elected to unconditionally bypass the qualitative assessment and perform a single step quantitative assessment.  We used an income approach to estimate the fair values of our reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets.  The income approach reflects the discounting of expected future cash flows to their present value at a rate of return that incorporates the risk- 23 free rate for the use of those funds, the expected rate of inflation and the risks associated with realizing expected future cash flows.  The weighted-average discount rate used in performing the valuations was 10.7%. In performing the 2023 discounted cash flow analysis, we made various judgments, estimates and assumptions, the most significant of which were volume, revenue, income, operating margins, perpetual growth rates and discount rates.  The analysis incorporated assumptions used in our long-term financial forecast, which is used by our management to evaluate business and financial performance, including allocating resources and evaluating results relative to setting employee compensation targets.  The assumptions incorporated the highest and best use of our indefinite-lived intangible assets and also included perpetual growth rates for periods beyond the long-term financial forecast.  The perpetual growth rates used in performing the valuations ranged from 1% to 2%.  Fair value calculations are sensitive to changes in these estimates and assumptions, some of which relate to broader macroeconomic conditions outside of our control. Although our discounted cash flow analysis is based on assumptions that are considered reasonable and based on the best available information at the time that the discounted cash flow analysis is developed, there is significant judgment used in determining future cash flows.  The following factors have the most potential to impact our assumptions and thus the expected future cash flows and, therefore, our impairment conclusions: general macroeconomic conditions; governmental actions, including FDA regulatory actions and inaction; changes in category growth (decline) rates as a result of changing adult tobacco consumer preferences; success of planned new product expansions; competitive activity; unfavorable outcomes with respect to litigation proceedings, including actions brought against us alleging patent infringement; and income and excise taxes.  For further discussion of these factors, see Operating Results by Business Segment - Business Environment below. While our management believes that the estimated fair values of each reporting unit and indefinite-lived intangible asset at December 31, 2023 are reasonable, actual performance in the short-term or long-term could be significantly different from forecasted performance, which could result in impairment charges in future periods. For further discussion of goodwill and other intangible assets, see Note 6. ▪ Investments in Equity Securities: At the end of each reporting period, we review our equity investments accounted for under the equity method of accounting (ABI and Cronos) for impairment by comparing the fair value of each of our investments to their carrying value.  If the carrying value of an investment exceeds its fair value and the loss in value is other than temporary, we consider the investment impaired, reduce its carrying value to its fair value and record the impairment in the period identified.  We use certain factors to make this determination, including (i) the duration and magnitude of the fair value decline, (ii) the financial condition and near-term prospects of the investee and (iii) our intent and ability to hold our investment until recovery to its carrying value. For further discussion of our investments in equity securities, see Note 7. ▪ Marketing Costs: Our businesses promote their products with consumer incentives, trade promotions and consumer engagement programs.  These consumer incentive and trade promotion activities, which include discounts, coupons, rebates, in-store display incentives and volume-based incentives, do not create a distinct deliverable and are, therefore, recorded as a reduction of revenues.  We make consumer engagement program payments to third parties.  Our businesses expense these consumer engagement programs, which include event marketing, as incurred and such expenses are included in marketing, administration and research costs in our consolidated statements of earnings.  For interim reporting purposes, our businesses charge consumer engagement programs and certain consumer incentive expenses to operations as a percentage of sales, based on estimated sales and related expenses for the full year. ▪ Contingencies: As discussed in Note 19 and Item 3. Legal Proceedings of this Form 10-K (“Item 3”), legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters are pending or threatened in various U.S. and foreign jurisdictions against Altria and our subsidiaries, including PM USA, as well as their respective indemnitees.  In 1998, PM USA and certain other tobacco product manufacturers entered into the MSA with 46 states, the District of Columbia and certain United States territories to settle asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and other claims.  PM USA and certain other U.S. tobacco product manufacturers had previously entered into agreements to settle similar claims brought by Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota (together with the MSA, “State Settlement Agreements”).  PM USA’s portion of ongoing adjusted payments and legal fees is based on its relative share of the settling manufacturers’ domestic cigarette shipments, including roll-your-own cigarettes, in the year preceding that in which the payment is due.  In addition, PM USA, Middleton and USSTC are subject to quarterly user fees imposed by the FDA as a result of the FSPTCA.  Payments under the State Settlement Agreements and the FDA user fees are based on variable factors, such as volume, operating income, market share and inflation, depending on the subject payment.  Our subsidiaries account for the cost of the State Settlement Agreements and FDA user fees as a component of cost of sales.  Our subsidiaries recorded approximately $4.0 billion and $4.2 billion of charges to cost of sales for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, in connection with the State Settlement Agreements and FDA user fees. We record provisions in our consolidated financial statements for pending litigation when we determine that an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.  At the present time, while it is reasonably possible that an unfavorable outcome in a case may occur, except to the extent discussed in Note 19 and Item 3: (i) management has concluded that it is not probable that a loss has been incurred in any pending litigation; (ii) management is unable to estimate the possible loss or range of loss that could 24 result from an unfavorable outcome in any pending case; and (iii) accordingly, management has not provided any amounts in our consolidated financial statements for unfavorable outcomes, if any.  We expense litigation defense costs as incurred and include such costs in marketing, administration and research costs in our consolidated statements of earnings. ▪ Employee Benefit Plans: We provide a range of benefits to certain employees and retired employees, including pension, postretirement health care and postemployment benefits.  We record annual amounts relating to these plans based on calculations specified by GAAP, which include various actuarial assumptions as to discount rates, assumed rates of return on plan assets, mortality, compensation increases, turnover rates and health care cost trend rates.  We review our actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and make modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends when it is deemed appropriate to do so.  Any effect of the modifications is generally amortized over future periods. We recognize the funded status of our defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans on the consolidated balance sheets and record as a component of other comprehensive earnings (losses), net of deferred income taxes, the gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that have not been recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost (income).  We subsequently amortize the gains or losses and prior service costs or credits recorded as components of other comprehensive earnings (losses) into net periodic benefit cost (income) in future years. Due to changes in market factors, our discount rate assumptions for our pension and postretirement plans obligations decreased to 5.3% and 5.2%, respectively, at December 31, 2023 from 5.6% for these plans at December 31, 2022.  We presently anticipate net pre-tax pension and postretirement income of approximately $50 million in 2024 versus net pre-tax income of $73 million in 2023.  This decrease is due primarily to: (i) lower expected income on plan assets; and (ii) higher amortization of net unrecognized losses in 2024; partially offset by (iii) lower discount rates resulting in lower interest costs.  Assuming no change to the shape of the yield curve, a 50 basis point decrease (increase) in our discount rates would increase (decrease) our pension and postretirement expense by approximately $10 million.  Similarly, a 50 basis point decrease (increase) in the expected return on plan assets would increase (decrease) our pension and postretirement expense by approximately $40 million. For additional information see Note 17. Benefit Plans to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 (“Note 17”). ▪ Income Taxes: Significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and in evaluating tax positions.  We determine deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities, using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse.  We record a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized.  We determine the realizability of deferred tax assets based on the weight of all available positive and negative evidence.  In reaching this determination, we consider the character of the assets and the possible sources of taxable income of the appropriate character within the available carryback and carryforward periods available under the tax law. We recognize the financial statement benefit for uncertain income tax positions when it is more likely than not, based on the technical merits, that the position will be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities.  The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement.  We recognize accrued interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions as part of the provision for income taxes in our consolidated statements of earnings. We recognized income tax benefits and charges in the consolidated statements of earnings during 2023 and 2022 as a result of various tax events. For additional information on income taxes, see Note 15. Income Taxes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 (“Note 15”). 25 Consolidated Operating Results As discussed further in Note 16, our CODM reviews OCI, which is defined as operating income before general corporate expenses and amortization of intangibles, to evaluate the performance of, and allocate resources to, our segments.  Our management believes it is appropriate to disclose this measure to help investors analyze our business performance and trends. The following table provides a reconciliation of adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted EPS for the years ended December 31: 26 The following special items affected the comparability of statements of earnings amounts. ▪ NPM Adjustment Items: For a discussion of NPM Adjustment Items and a breakdown of these items by segment, see Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation in Note 19 and NPM Adjustment Items in Note 16, respectively. ▪ Acquisition, Disposition and Integration-Related Items: For a discussion of acquisition and integration-related costs and disposition-related interest income for the year ended December 31, 2023, see Note 3 and Note 6, respectively. ▪ Tobacco and Health and Certain Other Litigation Items: For a discussion of tobacco and health and certain other litigation items and a breakdown of these costs by segment, see Note 19 and Tobacco and Health and Certain Other Litigation Items in Note 16, respectively. ▪ Loss on Disposition and Changes in Fair Value of JUUL Equity Securities: We recorded a non-cash, pre-tax loss of $250 million related to the disposition of our former investment in JUUL for the year ended December 31, 2023 as (income) losses from investments in equity securities in our consolidated statement of earnings. We recorded non-cash, pre-tax unrealized losses of $1,455 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, as (income) losses from investments in equity securities in our consolidated statement of earnings as a result of decreases in the estimated fair value of our former investment in JUUL. We recorded corresponding adjustments to the JUUL tax valuation allowance in 2023 and 2022. For further discussion, see Note 7 and Note 15. ▪ ABI-Related Special Items: We recorded net pre-tax losses of $89 million from our equity investment in ABI for the year ended December 31, 2023, consisting primarily of mark-to-market losses on certain ABI financial instruments associated with its share commitments and a loss on ABI’s sale of certain brands and associated assets in the United States. We recorded net pre-tax losses of $2,544 million from our equity investment in ABI for the year ended December 31, 2022, substantially all of which related to our non-cash impairment of our equity investment in ABI.  For further discussion, see Note 7. The ABI-related special items include our respective share of the amounts recorded by ABI and additional adjustments related to (i) the conversion of ABI-related special items from international financial reporting standards to GAAP and (ii) adjustments to our investment required under the equity method of accounting. ▪ Cronos-Related Special Items: We recorded net pre-tax expense for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, consisting of the following: (1) Amounts include our share of special items recorded by Cronos and additional adjustments, if required under the equity method of accounting, related to our investment in Cronos including our $107 million non-cash pre-tax impairment of our investment in Cronos in 2022. We recorded corresponding adjustments to the Cronos tax valuation allowance in 2023 and 2022 relating to the special items. For further discussion, see Note 7 and Note 15. ▪ Income Tax Items: We recorded expense of $32 million for income tax items for the year ended December 31, 2023, due primarily to tax expense associated with a tax basis adjustment related to our investment in ABI. We recorded income of $729 million for income tax items for the year ended December 31, 2022, due primarily to tax benefits associated with the release of valuation allowances on deferred tax assets related to a portion of our former investment in JUUL and our Cronos warrant (which we irrevocably abandoned in 2022) due to the anticipated ability to utilize these losses.  For further discussion, see Note 15. 2023 Compared with 2022 Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, decreased $613 million (2.4%), due primarily to lower net revenues in the smokeable products segment, partially offset by higher net revenues in the oral tobacco products segment. Cost of sales decreased $224 million (3.5%), due primarily to lower shipment volume in our smokeable products segment, partially offset by higher per unit settlement charges, higher manufacturing costs and lower NPM Adjustment Items in our smokeable products segment. Excise taxes on products decreased $427 million (9.7%), due primarily to lower shipment volume in our smokeable products segment. 27 Marketing, administration and research costs increased $410 million (17.6%), due primarily to higher general corporate expenses, which included charges related to agreements in 2023 to resolve certain JUUL-related litigation and shareholder derivative lawsuits as discussed in Note 19, and acquisition-related costs and higher amortization of intangible assets both associated with the NJOY Transaction. Operating income decreased $372 million (3.1%), due primarily to higher general corporate expenses and higher amortization of intangible assets, partially offset by higher operating results in our oral tobacco products segment. Interest and other debt expense, net decreased $69 million (6.5%), due primarily to higher interest income including higher rates, the sale of the IQOS System commercialization rights and favorable NPM Adjustment Items and lower interest expense due to net changes in debt, partially offset by 2023 interest expense and fees for the term loan facility associated with the NJOY Transaction.  For additional information related to the term loan facility and the sale of the IQOS System, see Liquidity and Capital Resources . Net periodic benefit income, excluding service cost, decreased by $57 million (31.0%), due to higher discount rates resulting in higher interest costs and lower estimated return on assets due to lower fair value of plan assets at December 31, 2022, partially offset by lower amortization of net unrecognized losses in 2023.  For additional information, see Note 17. (Income) losses from investments in equity securities, which were favorable $3,884 million (100%+), were positively impacted by favorable results from our equity investment in ABI (due primarily to our non-cash impairment of our investment in ABI in 2022), lower charges related to our former investment in JUUL equity securities and lower losses from our Cronos-related special items. Provision for income taxes increased $1,173 million (72.2%), due primarily to lower pre-tax earnings in 2022 associated with our non-cash impairment of our investment in ABI and the release of valuation allowances in 2022 on deferred tax assets related to a portion of our former investment in JUUL. Reported net earnings of $8,130 million increased $2,366 million (41.0%), due primarily to favorable results from our investments in equity securities and lower interest and other debt expense, net, partially offset by lower operating income, unfavorable income tax items and lower net periodic benefit income.  Reported basic and diluted EPS of $4.57, each increased by 43.3%, due to higher reported net earnings and fewer shares outstanding. Adjusted net earnings of $8,822 million increased $80 million (0.9%), due primarily to higher income from our investments in equity securities, higher OCI, lower adjusted tax rate and lower interest and other debt expense, net, partially offset by lower net periodic benefit income and higher amortization.  Adjusted diluted EPS of $4.95 increased by 2.3%, due to higher adjusted net earnings and fewer shares outstanding. Operating Results by Business Segment Business Environment Summary The U.S. tobacco industry faces a number of business and legal challenges that have materially adversely affected and may continue to materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position or our ability to achieve our Vision.  These challenges, some of which are discussed in more detail in Note 19, Item 1A and Item 3, include: ▪ pending and threatened litigation and bonding requirements; ▪ restrictions and requirements imposed by the FSPTCA, and restrictions and requirements (and related enforcement actions) that have been, and in the future will be, imposed by the FDA; ▪ the FDA’s failure to effectively address illegal e-vapor products on the market; ▪ actual and proposed excise tax increases, as well as changes in tax structures and tax stamping requirements; ▪ bans and restrictions on tobacco use imposed by governmental entities and private establishments and employers; ▪ other federal, state and local government actions, including: ▪ restrictions on the sale of certain tobacco products, the sale of tobacco products by certain retail establishments, the sale of tobacco products with characterizing flavors and the sale of tobacco products in certain package sizes; ▪ additional restrictions on the advertising and promotion of tobacco products; ▪ other actual and proposed tobacco-related legislation and regulation; and ▪ governmental investigations; ▪ reductions in consumption levels of cigarettes and MST products; ▪ increased efforts by tobacco control advocates and other private sector entities (including retail establishments) to further restrict the availability and use of tobacco products or the ability to communicate with consumers through third-party digital platforms; 28 ▪ changes in adult tobacco consumer purchase behavior, which is influenced by various factors such as macroeconomic conditions (including inflation), excise taxes and price gap relationships, each of which may result in adult tobacco consumers switching to lower-priced tobacco products and lower shipment volumes; ▪ the highly competitive nature of all tobacco categories, including competitive disadvantages related to the impact on cigarette prices due to the settlement of certain healthcare cost recovery litigation and the proliferation of innovative tobacco products, such as e-vapor and oral nicotine pouch products; ▪ illicit trade in tobacco products, including illegal e-vapor products; and ▪ potential adverse changes in prices, availability and quality of tobacco, other raw materials and component parts, including as a result of changes in macroeconomic and geopolitical conditions. In addition to and in connection with the foregoing, evolving adult tobacco consumer preferences continue to impact the tobacco industry, including negatively impacting cigarette and MST shipment volumes.  We believe that a significant number of adult tobacco consumers switch among tobacco categories, use multiple forms of tobacco products and try innovative tobacco products, such as e-vapor products and oral nicotine pouches.  Adult smokers continue to transition from cigarettes to exclusive use of smoke-free tobacco product alternatives, which aligns with our Vision. We work to meet these evolving adult tobacco consumer preferences over time by developing, manufacturing, marketing and distributing products both within and outside the United States through innovation and other growth strategies (including, where appropriate, arrangements with, or investments in, third parties and acquisitions). For the fourth quarter of 2023, we estimate that, when adjusted for trade inventory movements, calendar differences and other factors, domestic cigarette industry volume declined by 8% versus the fourth quarter of 2022 and over the last 12 months.  We believe these declines primarily are attributable to the historic secular rate of decline, the growth of illegal flavored disposable e-vapor products and continued macroeconomic pressures on adult tobacco consumers.  We continue to estimate that the growth of illegal flavored disposable e-vapor products, which we discuss in more detail below, contributed to cigarette industry volume declines in a range of 1.5% to 2.5% over the last 12 months.  By design, these illegal flavored disposable e-vapor products are largely distributed through non-traditional, untracked retail channels, and this is a trend we will continue to carefully monitor. The macroeconomic pressures on adult tobacco consumers and seasonal trends in the discount segment influenced discount share performance.  For the fourth quarter of 2023, the discount share of the cigarette category was 28.6%, an increase of 0.4 share points sequentially versus the third quarter of 2023 and an increase of 0.9 share points versus the fourth quarter of 2022.  For the full year 2023, the discount segment share of the cigarette category grew to 28.3%, an increase of 1.4 share points versus the full year 2022. Marlboro share was 42.2% in the fourth quarter of 2023, reflecting a decrease of 0.1 share point as compared to the third quarter of 2023 and unchanged from the fourth quarter of 2022.  For the full year 2023, Marlboro share was 42.1%, a decrease of 0.4 share points compared to the full year 2022. Marlboro continued to increase share in the premium segment of the industry to 59.2% in the fourth quarter of 2023, an increase of 0.3 share points versus the third quarter of 2023 and an increase of 0.8 share points versus the fourth quarter of 2022. We expect cigarette industry volume trends for 2024 to be most influenced by (i) continued macroeconomic and discretionary income pressures for adult tobacco consumers (including inflation, gasoline prices and unemployment levels), (ii) cross-category movement, including to illegal e-vapor products, and (iii) regulatory and legislative (including excise tax) developments. The U.S. nicotine pouch category continued to grow significantly throughout the fourth quarter of 2023 to 35.9% of the U.S. oral tobacco category, an increase of 11.8 share points versus the fourth quarter of 2022. on! maintained year over year share momentum through the full year 2023 to achieve 6.8% of the total oral tobacco category, an increase of 1.8 share points versus the full year 2022.  For the fourth quarter of 2023, on! share was 6.9% of the total oral tobacco category, an increase of 1.1 share points when compared to the fourth quarter of 2022 and unchanged sequentially.  Oral nicotine pouch growth primarily has sourced from adult smokeless tobacco and cigarette consumers, negatively impacting smokeless and cigarette product volumes.  For the fourth quarter 2023, the traditional smokeless category (including MST and Snus) share of the total oral tobacco category declined to 64.1%, down 11.8 share points versus the fourth quarter of 2022. Copenhagen had an oral tobacco category share of 21.7% for the fourth quarter of 2023, a decrease of 4.5 share points when compared to the fourth quarter of 2022. The e-vapor category grew approximately 35% in 2023, driven by illicit flavored disposable products, which currently represent over 50% of the e-vapor category.  Pod-based products represent between 15% and 20% of the category and declined approximately 15% in 2023 versus 2022.  For the fourth quarter of 2023, reported shipment volume of NJOY ACE was approximately 10.4 million pods.  By December 2023, NJOY ACE distribution grew to approximately 75,000 stores, and NJOY ACE is currently distributed in the top 25 convenience store chains by e-vapor volume.  The NJOY share of the e-vapor category reached 3.7% in the fourth quarter of 2023, an increase of 0.3 share points sequentially. Despite improving macroeconomic conditions, discretionary income pressures persisted for adult tobacco consumers through the fourth quarter of 2023 due to the cumulative effect of inflation and pressure on discretionary income.  In January 2023, the consumer price index (“CPI”) was 6.4%, seasonally unadjusted, significantly below the prior year peak of 9.1% in June 2022 but exceeding the Federal 29 Reserve’s target of 2%.  In total, between 2022 and 2023, the Federal Reserve took 11 consecutive rate increases to move interest rates to a range of 5.25% to 5.5% by July 2023.  In response to rising interest rates through the year, inflation continued to ease sequentially to a December 2023 rate of 3.4%.  Despite recent CPI declines, tobacco product price increases over time have continued to act as a headwind for adult tobacco consumers.  Similar to inflation trends, gas prices throughout 2023 were much lower than 2022.  However, they remained consistently above $3.00 month over month.  The average gas price for 2023 was $3.52 per gallon, a decrease of $0.44 compared to the previous year.  Gas prices peaked leading into August to $3.84, then started to decrease, reaching the lowest levels in over two years to $3.13 by December 2023.  In addition, low unemployment and stable wage inflation continued through 2023. We continue to monitor changing conditions within the tobacco business environment and impacts on our business.  For example, we monitor changes in macroeconomic conditions that increase discretionary income pressures on adult tobacco consumers, which can impact domestic cigarette industry volume decline and discount segment share growth and reduce purchases at retail.  We are also monitoring growth of illegal flavored disposable e-vapor products and the related negative impact on domestic cigarette and e-vapor industry volumes.  In addition, the growth of the nicotine pouch category has reduced the size of the MST category and could impact the carrying value of our assets such as our tobacco product trademarks.  Changes in these and other conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. FSPTCA and FDA Regulation ▪ The Regulatory Framework: The FSPTCA and its related regulations establish broad FDA regulatory authority over all tobacco products and, among other provisions: ▪ impose restrictions on the advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of tobacco products (see Final Tobacco Marketing Rule below); ▪ establish pre-market review pathways for new and modified tobacco products (see Pre-Market Review Pathways for Tobacco Products and Market Authorization Enforcement below); ▪ prohibit any express or implied claims that a tobacco product is or may be less harmful than other tobacco products without FDA authorization; ▪ authorize the FDA to impose tobacco product standards that are appropriate for the protection of the public health (see Potential Product Standards below); and ▪ equip the FDA with a variety of investigatory and enforcement tools, including the authority to inspect product manufacturing and other facilities (see Investigation and Enforcement below). The FSPTCA also bans descriptors such as “light,” “low” or “mild” when used as descriptors of modified risk, unless expressly authorized by the FDA.  In connection with a 2016 lawsuit initiated by Middleton, the U.S. Department of Justice, on behalf of the FDA, informed Middleton that the FDA does not intend to bring an enforcement action against Middleton for the use of the term “mild” in the trademark “Black & Mild.”  Consequently, Middleton dismissed its lawsuit without prejudice.  If the FDA were to change its position at some later date, Middleton would have the opportunity to bring another lawsuit. Effective April 2022, the U.S. Congress expanded the statutory definition of tobacco products to include products containing nicotine derived from any source, including synthetic nicotine.  See Pre-Market Review Pathways for Tobacco Products and Market Authorization Enforcement below for additional information on the effects of the statutory change. ▪ Final Tobacco Marketing Rule: As required by the FSPTCA, in March 2010, the FDA promulgated a wide range of advertising and promotion restrictions for cigarettes and smokeless tobacco (1) products (the “Final Tobacco Marketing Rule”).  The May 2016 deeming regulations amended the Final Tobacco Marketing Rule to expand specific provisions to all tobacco products, including cigars, pipe tobacco and e-vapor and oral nicotine products containing tobacco-derived nicotine or other tobacco derivatives. The Final Tobacco Marketing Rule, as amended, among other things: ▪ restricts the use of non-tobacco trade and brand names on cigarettes and smokeless tobacco products; ▪ prohibits sampling of all tobacco products except that sampling of smokeless tobacco products is permitted in qualified adult-only facilities; ▪ prohibits the sale or distribution of items such as hats and tee shirts with cigarette or smokeless tobacco brands or logos; ▪ prohibits cigarettes and smokeless tobacco brand name sponsorship of any athletic, musical, artistic or other social or cultural event, or any entry or team in any event; and ▪ requires the development by the FDA of graphic warnings for cigarettes, establishes warning requirements for other tobacco products, and gives the FDA the authority to require new warnings for any type of tobacco product (see FDA Regulatory Actions - Graphic Warnings below). (1) “Smokeless tobacco,” as used in this section of this Form 10-K, refers to smokeless tobacco products first regulated by the FDA in 2009, including MST. It excludes oral nicotine pouches, which were first regulated by the FDA in 2016. 30 Subject to certain limitations arising from legal challenges, the Final Tobacco Marketing Rule took effect in June 2010 for cigarettes and smokeless tobacco products, in August 2016 for all other tobacco products, including e-vapor and oral nicotine pouch products containing tobacco-derived nicotine, and in April 2022 for tobacco products, including e-vapor and oral nicotine pouch products, that contain nicotine from any source other than tobacco, such as synthetic nicotine. ▪ Rulemaking and Guidance: From time to time, the FDA issues proposed regulations and guidance, which may be issued in draft or final form, that generally involve public comment and may include scientific review.  The FDA also may request comments on broad topics through an Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“ANPRM”).  We actively engage with the FDA to develop and implement the FSPTCA’s regulatory framework, including submission of comments to various FDA policies and proposals and participation in public hearings and engagement sessions. The FDA’s implementation of the FSPTCA and related regulations and guidance also may have an impact on enforcement efforts by states, territories and localities of their laws and regulations as well as of the State Settlement Agreements (see State Settlement Agreements below).  Such enforcement efforts may adversely affect our operating companies’ ability to market and sell tobacco products in those states, territories and localities. ▪ FDA’s Five-Year Strategic Plan for Tobacco and Nicotine Regulation: In December 2023, in response to the Reagan-Udall Foundation’s report of its operational evaluation of the FDA’s Center for Tobacco Products, the FDA released its five-year strategic plan to address concerns raised by the report.  The Reagan-Udall Report urged the FDA to clearly define product pathways, accelerate PMTA decision-making, address the need for health risk communications to tobacco consumers and take enforcement actions against manufacturers and products that violate the law. The FDA’s five-year strategic plan lists five goals: ▪ develop, advance and communicate comprehensive and impactful tobacco regulations and guidance; ▪ ensure timely, clear and consistent product application review; ▪ strengthen compliance of regulated industry using all available tools, including robust enforcement actions; ▪ enhance knowledge and understanding of the risks associated with tobacco product use; and ▪ advance operational excellence. Although the FDA, in conjunction with other federal entities, has increased enforcement activity, prior insufficient enforcement actions against certain product categories that violate the law, including disposable and flavored e-vapor products and products targeted to minors, allowed such products to proliferate on the market. In addition, the FDA’s failure to clearly define product pathways and accelerate PMTA decision making has resulted in a market with few authorized smoke-free products available to adult tobacco consumers. ▪ Pre-Market Review Pathways for Tobacco Products and Market Authorization Enforcement: The FSPTCA permits the sale of tobacco products on the market as of February 15, 2007 and not subsequently modified (“Pre-existing Tobacco Products”) and new or modified products authorized through the PMTA, Substantial Equivalence (“SE”) or SE Exemption pathways.  Subsequent FDA rules also provide a Supplemental PMTA pathway designed to increase the efficiency of submission and review for modified versions of previously authorized products. The FDA pre-market authorization enforcement policy varies based on product type and date of availability on the market, specifically: ▪ Pre-existing Tobacco Products are exempt from the pre-market authorization requirement; ▪ cigarette and smokeless tobacco products that were modified or first introduced into the market between February 15, 2007 and March 22, 2011 are generally considered “Provisional Products” for which SE reports were required to be filed by March 22, 2011.  These reports must demonstrate that the product has the same characteristics as a product on the market as of February 15, 2007 or to a product previously determined to be substantially equivalent, or has different characteristics but does not raise different questions of public health; ▪ tobacco products that were first regulated by the FDA in 2016, including cigars, e-vapor products and oral nicotine pouches that are not Pre-existing Tobacco Products, are generally products for which either an SE report or PMTA needed to be filed by September 9, 2020; and ▪ tobacco products containing nicotine from any source other than tobacco ( e.g. , synthetic nicotine) that were on the market between March 15, 2022 and April 14, 2022 and are not Pre-existing Tobacco Products are generally products for which a manufacturer must have filed a PMTA by May 14, 2022.  A manufacturer was permitted to keep such a product on the market until July 13, 2022 provided that a PMTA was filed by May 14, 2022.  Thereafter, unless the FDA granted the product a marketing order, the product is unlawful and subject to possible FDA enforcement. Modifications to currently marketed products, including modifications that result from, for example, changes to the quantity of tobacco product(s) in a package, a manufacturer being unable to acquire ingredients or a supplier or contract manufacturer being unable to maintain the consistency required in ingredients or manufacturing processes, could trigger the FDA’s pre-market review processes. 31 Additionally, a manufacturer may be unable to maintain consistency in manufacturing processes as it increases the scale of its manufacturing operations in response to market expansion or product introduction.  These circumstances could cause a manufacturer to receive (i) a “not substantially equivalent” determination or (ii) a denial or withdrawal of a PMTA, either of which could result in a product being removed from the market.  In addition, new scientific data continues to be developed relating to innovative tobacco products, which could impact the FDA’s determination as to whether a product is, or continues to be, appropriate for the protection of public health and could, therefore, result in the removal of one or more products from the market.  Any such actions affecting our operating companies’ products could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Products Regulated in 2009 : Most cigarette and smokeless tobacco products currently marketed by PM USA and USSTC are “Provisional Products.”  PM USA and USSTC timely submitted SE reports for these Provisional Products and have received SE determinations on certain Provisional Products.  Those products that were found by the FDA to be not substantially equivalent (certain smokeless tobacco products) had been discontinued for business reasons prior to the FDA’s determinations; therefore, those determinations did not impact business results.  PM USA and USSTC have other Provisional Products that continue to be subject to the FDA’s pre-market review process.  In the meantime, they can continue marketing these products unless the FDA determines that a specific Provisional Product is not substantially equivalent. In addition, the FDA has communicated that it will not review a certain subset of Provisional Product SE reports and that the products that are the subject of those reports can continue to be legally marketed without further FDA review.  PM USA and USSTC have Provisional Products included in this subset of products. While we believe PM USA’s and USSTC’s current Provisional Products meet the statutory requirements of the FSPTCA, we cannot predict how the FDA will ultimately apply law, regulation and guidance to their various SE reports.  Should PM USA or USSTC receive unfavorable determinations on any SE reports currently pending with the FDA, we believe PM USA and USSTC can replace the vast majority of these product volumes with other FDA authorized products or with Pre-existing Tobacco Products. Cigarette and smokeless tobacco products introduced into the market or modified after March 22, 2011 are “Non-Provisional Products” and must receive a marketing order from the FDA prior to being offered for sale.  Marketing orders for Non-Provisional Products may be obtained by filing an SE report, PMTA or using another pre-market pathway established by the FDA.  PM USA and USSTC may not be able to obtain a marketing order for non-provisional products because the FDA may determine that any such product does not meet the statutory requirements for approval. Products Regulated in 2016 : Manufacturers of products first regulated by the FDA in 2016, including cigars, oral nicotine pouches and e-vapor products, that were on the market as of August 8, 2016 and not subsequently modified must have filed an SE report or PMTA by the filing deadline of September 9, 2020 in order for their products to remain on the market.  These products can remain on the market during FDA review through court-allowed, case-by-case discretion, so long as the report or application was timely filed with the FDA.  In September 2022, the FDA represented that it had resolved more than 99% of the timely applications it had received, the vast majority of which were for e-vapor products and resulted in denials.  A number of the denials are subject to challenges initiated by the affected manufacturers.  For those products still under FDA review, it is uncertain when and for how long the FDA may permit continued marketing and sale of those products pursuant to its case-by-case discretion.  For products (new or modified) not on the market as of August 8, 2016, manufacturers must file an SE report or PMTA and receive FDA authorization prior to marketing and selling the product. Helix submitted PMTAs for on! oral nicotine pouches in May 2020.  As of February 23, 2024, the FDA has not issued marketing order decisions for any on! products.  In addition, as of February 23, 2024, Middleton has received market orders or exemptions that cover over 99% of its cigar product volume. In April 2019, the FDA authorized the PMTA for the IQOS System, and in July 2020, the FDA authorized the marketing of this system as a modified risk tobacco product (“MRTP”) with a reduced exposure claim.  In December 2020, the FDA authorized the PMTA for IQOS 3, an updated version of the IQOS devices, and in March 2022 authorized the marketing of the IQOS 3 device as an MRTP with the same reduced exposure claim.  In January 2023, the FDA authorized PMTAs for three new tobacco-flavored varieties of Marlboro HeatSticks . In September 2021, in connection with a patent dispute, the ITC issued a cease and desist order, effective as of November 29, 2021, banning (i) the importation of the IQOS devices, Marlboro HeatSticks and infringing components into the United States and (ii) the sale, marketing and distribution of such imported products in the United States.  As a result, PM USA removed the products from the marketplace.  For a further discussion of the ITC decision, see Note 19.  In October 2022, we agreed to assign the exclusive U.S. commercialization rights to the IQOS System to PMI effective April 2024 in exchange for a total cash payment of approximately $2.7 billion (plus interest).  The U.S. government has asserted that the agreement to assign those rights required district court approval and was subject to PMI becoming bound by a court-ordered injunction against engaging in certain conduct and requiring the communication of corrective statements.  The issue has yet to be litigated before the district court. 32 In October 2021, the FDA authorized the marketing and sale of four of USSTC’s Verve oral nicotine products, including Green Mint and Blue Mint varieties, representing the first flavored product authorizations issued by the FDA for newly deemed innovative products.  These products are not currently marketed or sold. In March 2023, the FDA authorized USSTC to communicate a modified risk claim about its Copenhagen Classic Snuff MST product.  This product is not currently marketed or sold.  The authorized claim for Copenhagen Classic Snuff is “IF YOU SMOKE, CONSIDER THIS:  Switching completely to this product from cigarettes reduces risk of lung cancer.”  USSTC’s authorization to use this claim is subject to the FDA’s post-market surveillance requirements described below. In June 2023, we completed our acquisition of NJOY Holdings, the parent of NJOY.  As a result of the acquisition, NJOY became a wholly owned subsidiary of Altria, and we gained full global ownership of NJOY’s e-vapor product portfolio, including NJOY ACE , currently the only pod-based e-vapor product with market authorizations from the FDA, and NJOY DAILY , which also has a market authorization.  In March 2020, NJOY submitted PMTAs to the FDA with respect to two NJOY ACE menthol products and two NJOY DAILY menthol products, all four of which remain pending.  The FDA issued marketing denial orders (“MDOs”) for four NJOY ACE and four NJOY DAILY flavored products.  NJOY filed for a supervisory review by the FDA of the marketing denial orders for the NJOY ACE and NJOY DAILY flavored products, all of which are pending. Post-Market Surveillance : Manufacturers that receive product authorizations through the PMTA process must adhere to the FDA post-market record keeping and reporting requirements, as detailed in market orders and in the final PMTA rule that went into effect in November 2021.  The requirements include prior notification of marketing activities.  The FDA may amend requirements of a market order or withdraw the market order based on this information if, among other reasons, it determines that the continued marketing of the products is no longer appropriate for the protection of the public health. Effect of Adverse FDA Determinations : FDA review time frames have varied.  It is therefore difficult to predict the duration of FDA reviews of SE reports or PMTAs.  An unfavorable determination on an application, the withdrawal by the FDA of a prior marketing order or other changes in FDA regulatory requirements could result in the removal of products from the market.  A “not substantially equivalent” determination, a denial of a PMTA or a marketing order withdrawal by the FDA on one or more products (which would require the removal of the product or products from the market) could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position.  Also, adverse FDA determinations on innovative tobacco products could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our Vision. ▪ FDA Regulatory Actions ▪ Graphic Warnings : In March 2020, the FDA issued a final rule requiring 11 textual warnings accompanied by color graphics depicting certain negative health consequences of smoking on cigarette packaging and advertising.  PM USA and other cigarette manufacturers filed lawsuits challenging the final rule on substantive and procedural grounds.  In December 2022, the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas found in favor of cigarette manufacturers in one such suit and blocked the rule, finding it unconstitutional on the basis that it compelled speech in violation of the First Amendment.  The FDA has appealed the decision. ▪ Underage Access and Use of Certain Tobacco Products : The FDA announced regulatory actions in September 2018 to address underage access and use of e-vapor products.  We have engaged with the FDA on this topic and have reaffirmed to the FDA our ongoing and long-standing commitment to preventing underage use.  For example, we advocated raising the minimum legal age to purchase all tobacco products to 21 at the federal and state levels to further address underage use, which is now federal law.  We continue to advocate in states that have not yet raised the minimum legal age to purchase all tobacco products to 21.  See Federal, State and Local Legislation to Increase the Legal Age to Purchase Tobacco Products below for further discussion. Additionally, the FDA issued final guidance in April 2020, stating that it intended to prioritize enforcement action against certain product categories, including pod-based, flavored e-vapor products and products targeted to minors.  More recently, the FDA has taken limited enforcement action aimed at manufacturers and retailers of certain disposable flavored electronic nicotine delivery system products.  However, despite recent increases in enforcement activity, the FDA’s lack of sufficient enforcement actions against product categories that violate the law, including disposable and flavored e-vapor products and products targeted to minors, have allowed such products to proliferate on the market. ▪ Electronic Nicotine Delivery System Products : As of February 23, 2024, many manufacturers of menthol and other flavored e-vapor products have received MDOs for failure to provide sufficiently strong product-specific scientific evidence to demonstrate that the benefit of their products to adult smokers overcomes the risk that their products pose to youth.  The FDA has communicated in these MDOs that vapor products with non-tobacco flavors present unique questions relevant to the FDA’s “Appropriate for the Protection of Public Health” standard and that successful applications require strong, product-specific evidence.  A number of these manufacturers are challenging the MDOs for their products.  In January 2024, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit ruled that the FDA processes and procedures for addressing e-vapor PMTAs violated federal law and that, among other things, the FDA had failed to give applicants fair notice of, and repeatedly changed positions with respect to, the information required to obtain a PMTA.  The court decided the case en banc , with all judges on the court hearing the 33 case.  Other U.S. Courts of Appeal have upheld adverse FDA determinations, and there are pending requests that the U.S. Supreme Court review these decisions. ▪ Potential Product Standards ▪ Nicotine in Cigarettes and Other Combustible Tobacco Products : In March 2018, the FDA issued an ANPRM seeking comments on the potential public health benefits and any possible adverse effects of lowering nicotine in combustible cigarettes to non-addictive or minimally addictive levels.  Among other issues, the FDA sought comments on (i) whether smokers would compensate by smoking more cigarettes to obtain the same level of nicotine as with their current product and (ii) whether the proposed rule would create an illicit trade of cigarettes containing nicotine at levels higher than a non-addictive threshold that may be established by the FDA.  The FDA also sought comments on whether a nicotine product standard should apply to other combustible tobacco products, including cigars.  In December 2023, the Biden Administration published its Fall 2023 Unified Regulatory Agenda, which includes the FDA’s plans to propose, by April 2024, a product standard that would establish a maximum nicotine level in cigarettes and other combustible tobacco products.  Any proposed product standard would proceed through the rulemaking process, which we believe will take multiple years to complete. ▪ Flavors in Tobacco Products : In April 2022, the FDA issued two proposed product standards: (i) banning menthol in cigarettes and (ii) banning all characterizing flavors (including menthol) in cigars.  The Biden Administration’s Fall 2023 Unified Regulatory Agenda includes the FDA’s plans to complete rulemaking with respect to these proposed product standards by March 2024.  The FDA has not completed rulemaking with respect to either proposed product standard, but in October 2023 submitted the two proposed product standards to the White House Office of Management and Budget for review.  We submitted comments during the notice-and-comment period and plan to continue engaging with the FDA through the rulemaking process.  The FDA could propose an additional product standard for flavors in innovative tobacco products, including e-vapor products and oral nicotine products. ▪ N-nitrosonornicotine (“NNN”) in Smokeless Tobacco : In January 2017, the FDA proposed a product standard for NNN levels in finished smokeless tobacco products. If any one or more of the foregoing potential product standards were to become final and was appealed and upheld in the courts, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position, including a material adverse effect on the carrying value of certain of our assets such as our cigar trademarks. ▪ Good Manufacturing Practices: In March 2023, the FDA, pursuant to the requirements of the FSPTCA, issued a proposed rule setting forth requirements for tobacco product manufacturers regarding the manufacture, design, packing and storage of their products.  This proposed rule establishes a framework of good manufacturing practices, including by: ▪ establishing tobacco product design and development controls; ▪ ensuring that finished and bulk tobacco products are manufactured according to established specifications; ▪ minimizing the manufacture and distribution of tobacco products that do not meet specifications; ▪ requiring manufacturers to take appropriate measures to prevent contamination of tobacco products; ▪ requiring investigation and identification of products that do not meet specifications and requiring manufacturers to institute appropriate corrective actions, such as a recall; and ▪ establishing the ability to trace all components or parts, ingredients, additives and materials, as well as each batch of finished or bulk tobacco products, to aid in investigations of those that do not meet specifications. We engaged with the FDA through the rulemaking process, including during the notice-and-comment period, which closed in October 2023.  If the proposed rule were to take effect, compliance with these requirements could result in increased costs. ▪ Impact on Our Business; Compliance Costs and User Fees: Additional FDA regulatory actions under the FSPTCA could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position in various ways.  For example, actions by the FDA could: ▪ impact the consumer acceptability of tobacco products; ▪ discontinue, delay or prevent the sale or distribution of existing, new or modified tobacco products; ▪ limit adult tobacco consumer choices; ▪ impose restrictions on communications with adult tobacco consumers; ▪ create a competitive advantage or disadvantage for certain tobacco companies; ▪ impose additional manufacturing, labeling or packaging requirements; ▪ impose additional restrictions at retail; ▪ result in increased illicit trade in tobacco products; and ▪ otherwise significantly increase the cost of doing business. 34 The FSPTCA imposes user fees on cigarette, cigarette tobacco, smokeless tobacco, cigar and pipe tobacco manufacturers and importers to pay for the cost of regulation and other matters.  The FSPTCA does not impose user fees on e-vapor or oral nicotine pouch manufacturers.  The cost of the FDA user fee is allocated first among tobacco product categories subject to FDA user fees and then among manufacturers and importers within each respective category based on their relative market shares, all as prescribed by the FSPTCA and FDA regulations.  Payments for user fees are adjusted for several factors, including market share and industry volume.  See Liquidity and Capital Resources - Payments Under State Settlement Agreements and FDA Regulation below for a discussion of our FDA user fee payments.  In addition, compliance with the FSPTCA’s regulatory requirements has resulted, and will continue to result, in additional costs.  The amount of additional compliance and related costs has not been material in any given quarter or year-to-date period but could become material, either individually or in the aggregate.  The failure to comply with FDA regulatory requirements, even inadvertently, and FDA enforcement actions also could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. ▪ Investigation and Enforcement: The FDA has a number of investigatory and enforcement tools available to it, including document requests and other required information submissions, facility inspections, facility closures, examinations and investigations, injunction proceedings, monetary penalties, product withdrawal and recall orders, and product seizures.  Investigations or enforcement actions could result in significant costs or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Excise Taxes Tobacco products are subject to substantial excise taxes in the United States.  Significant increases in tobacco-related taxes or fees have been proposed or enacted (including with respect to e-vapor products) and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted at the federal, state and local levels within the United States.  The frequency and magnitude of excise tax increases can be influenced by various factors, including the composition of executive and legislative bodies. Federal, state and local cigarette excise taxes have increased substantially over the past two decades, far outpacing the rate of inflation.  Between the end of 1998 and February 23, 2024, the weighted-average state cigarette excise tax increased from $0.36 to $1.90 per pack.  Only one state, New York, enacted new legislation increasing excise taxes in 2023.  As of February 23, 2024, no states have enacted excise tax increases in 2024.  However, various increases are under consideration or have been proposed. A majority of states currently tax MST using an ad valorem method, which is calculated as a percentage of the price of the product, typically the wholesale price.  This ad valorem method results in more tax being paid on premium products than is paid on lower-priced products of equal weight.  We support legislation to convert ad valorem taxes on MST to a weight-based methodology because, unlike the ad valorem tax, a weight-based tax subjects cans of equal weight to the same tax.  As of February 23, 2024, the federal government, 23 states, Puerto Rico, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Cook County, Illinois have adopted a weight-based tax methodology for MST.  North Carolina has passed legislation that will cause the state to adopt a weight-based tax methodology for MST in July 2025. An increasing number of states and localities also are imposing excise taxes on e-vapor products and oral nicotine pouches.  As of February 23, 2024, 33 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and a number of cities and counties have enacted legislation to tax e-vapor products.  These taxes are calculated in varying ways and may differ based on the e-vapor product form.  Similarly, 11 states and the District of Columbia have enacted legislation to tax oral nicotine pouches. Tax increases are expected to continue to have an adverse impact on sales of our operating companies’ products through lower consumption levels and the potential shift in adult tobacco consumer purchases from premium to non-premium or discount cigarettes, to lower taxed tobacco products or to counterfeit and contraband products.  Lower sales volume and reported share performance of our operating companies’ products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position.  In addition, substantial excise tax increases on e-vapor and oral nicotine products may negatively impact adult smokers’ transition to these products, which could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve our Vision. International Treaty on Tobacco Control The World Health Organization’s Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (the “FCTC”) entered into force in February 2005.  As of February 23, 2024, 182 countries, as well as the European Union, have become parties to the FCTC.  While the United States is a signatory of the FCTC, it is not currently a party to the agreement, as the agreement has not been submitted to, or ratified by, the U.S. Senate.  The FCTC is the first international public health treaty and its objective is to establish a global agenda for tobacco regulation with the purpose of reducing initiation of tobacco use and encouraging cessation.  The treaty recommends (and in certain instances, requires) signatory nations to enact legislation that would address various tobacco-related issues. There are a number of proposals currently under consideration by the governing body of the FCTC, some of which call for substantial restrictions on the manufacture, marketing, distribution and sale of tobacco products.  It is not possible to predict the outcome of these proposals or the impact of any FCTC actions on legislation or regulation in the United States, either indirectly or as a result of the United States becoming a party to the FCTC, or whether or how these actions might indirectly influence FDA regulation and enforcement. 35 State Settlement Agreements As discussed in Note 19, during 1997 and 1998, PM USA and other major domestic cigarette manufacturers entered into the State Settlement Agreements.  These settlements require participating manufacturers to make substantial annual payments, which are adjusted for several factors, including inflation, operating income, market share and industry volume.  Increases in inflation can increase our financial liability under the State Settlement Agreements.  The State Settlement Agreements’ inflation calculations require us to apply the higher of 3% or the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics’ Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (“CPI-U”) percentage rate as published in January of each year.  As of December 2023, the inflation calculation was approximately 3.4% based on the latest CPI-U data; however, the increase in the annual payments did not have a material impact on our financial position.  We believe that inflation will continue at increased levels in 2024, but do not expect the corresponding increase in annual payments to result in a material financial impact.  However, we will continue to monitor the impact of increased inflation on the macroeconomic environment and our businesses. For a discussion of the impact of the State Settlement Agreements on us, see Liquidity and Capital Resources - Payments Under State Settlement Agreements and FDA Regulation below and Note 19.  The State Settlement Agreements also place numerous requirements and restrictions on participating manufacturers’ business operations, including prohibitions and restrictions on the advertising and marketing of cigarettes and smokeless tobacco products.  Among these are prohibitions of outdoor and transit brand advertising, payments for product placement and free sampling (except in adult-only facilities).  The State Settlement Agreements also place restrictions on the use of brand name sponsorships and brand name non-tobacco products and prohibitions on targeting youth and the use of cartoon characters.  In addition, the State Settlement Agreements require companies to affirm corporate principles directed at reducing underage use of cigarettes; impose requirements regarding lobbying activities; limit the industry’s ability to challenge certain tobacco control and underage use laws; and provide for the dissolution of certain tobacco-related organizations and place restrictions on the establishment of any replacement organizations. In November 1998, USSTC entered into the Smokeless Tobacco Master Settlement Agreement (the “STMSA”) with the attorneys general of various states and United States territories to resolve the remaining health care cost reimbursement cases initiated against USSTC.  The STMSA required USSTC to adopt various marketing and advertising restrictions.  USSTC is the only smokeless tobacco manufacturer to sign the STMSA. Other International, Federal, State and Local Regulation and Governmental and Private Activity ▪ International, Federal, State and Local Regulation: Various states and localities have enacted or proposed legislation that imposes restrictions on tobacco products (including cigarettes, smokeless tobacco, cigars, e-vapor products and oral nicotine pouches), such as legislation that (i) prohibits the sale of all tobacco products or certain tobacco categories, such as e-vapor, (ii) prohibits the sale of tobacco products with characterizing flavors, such as menthol cigarettes and flavored e-vapor products, (iii) requires the disclosure of health information separate from or in addition to federally mandated health warnings, (iv) restricts commercial speech or imposes additional restrictions on the marketing or sale of tobacco products and (v) requires manufacturers of e-vapor products to certify that they are in compliance with FDA requirements to be allowed to sell in the state.  The legislation varies in terms of the type of tobacco products, the conditions under which such products are or would be restricted or prohibited, and exceptions to the restrictions or prohibitions.  For example, a number of proposals involving characterizing flavors would prohibit smokeless tobacco products with characterizing flavors without providing an exception for mint- or wintergreen-flavored products.  As of February 23, 2024, multiple states and localities are considering legislation to ban flavors in one or more tobacco products, and six states (California, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, Rhode Island and Utah) and the District of Columbia have passed such legislation.  Some of these states, such as New York, Utah and Illinois, exempt certain products that have received FDA market authorization through the PMTA pathway.  The legislation in California, which became effective in December 2022, bans the sale of most tobacco products with characterizing flavors, including menthol, mint and wintergreen. Massachusetts passed legislation capping the amount of nicotine in e-vapor products, and Utah capped the amount of nicotine in e-vapor products by administrative rule.  Legislation relating to this issue is pending in Utah and two other states. Similar restrictions to those enacted or proposed in various U.S. states and localities on e-vapor and oral nicotine pouch products have been enacted or proposed internationally. We have challenged and will continue to challenge certain federal, state and local legislation and other governmental action, including through litigation.  Certain legislation imposing restrictions on tobacco products, such as state laws requiring manufacturers of e-vapor products to certify that they are in compliance with federal law in order to sell products in the state, aligns with our Vision, and we actively engage with lawmakers in support of such legislation.  It is possible, however, that legislation, regulation or other governmental action could be enacted or implemented that could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position.  Such action also could negatively impact adult smokers’ transition to smoke-free products, which could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve our Vision. ▪ Federal, State and Local Legislation to Increase the Legal Age to Purchase Tobacco Products: After a number of states and localities proposed and enacted legislation to increase the minimum age to purchase all tobacco products, including e-vapor 36 products, in December 2019, the federal government passed legislation increasing the minimum age to purchase all tobacco products, including e-vapor products, to 21 nationwide.  As of February 23, 2024, 42 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico have enacted laws increasing the legal age to purchase tobacco products to 21.  Although an increase in the minimum age to purchase tobacco products may have a negative impact on our operating companies’ sales volumes, we support raising the minimum legal age to purchase all tobacco products to 21 at the federal and state levels, as discussed above under Underage Access and Use of Certain Tobacco Products , reflecting our longstanding commitment to combat underage tobacco use. ▪ Health Effects of Tobacco Products, Including E-vapor Products: Reports with respect to the health effects of smoking have been publicized for many years, including various reports by the U.S. Surgeon General.  We believe that the public should be guided by the messages of the U.S. Surgeon General and public health authorities worldwide in making decisions concerning the use of tobacco products, including e-vapor products.  It is not possible to predict the results of ongoing scientific research or the types of future scientific research into the health risks of tobacco exposure and the impact of such research on legislation and regulation. Most jurisdictions within the United States have restricted smoking in public places and some have restricted vaping in public places.  Some public health groups have called for, and various jurisdictions have adopted or proposed, bans on smoking and vaping in outdoor places, in private apartments and in cars transporting children. ▪ Other Legislation or Governmental Initiatives: In addition to the actions discussed above, other regulatory initiatives affecting the tobacco industry have been adopted or are being considered at the federal level and in a number of state and local jurisdictions.  For example, in recent years, legislation has been introduced or enacted at the state or local level to subject tobacco products to various reporting requirements and performance standards; establish educational campaigns relating to tobacco consumption or tobacco control programs or provide additional funding for governmental tobacco control activities; restrict the sale of tobacco products in certain retail establishments and the sale of tobacco products in certain package sizes; prohibit the sale of tobacco products based on environmental concerns; impose responsibility on manufacturers for the disposal, recycling or other treatment of post-consumer goods such as plastic packaging; require tax stamping of smokeless tobacco products; require the use of state tax stamps using data encryption technology; and further restrict the sale, marketing and advertising of cigarettes and other tobacco products.  Such legislation may be subject to constitutional or other challenges on various grounds, which may or may not be successful.  In addition, if a pandemic or similar health emergency occurs, state and local governments may reimpose additional health and safety requirements for all businesses, which could result in the potential temporary closure of certain businesses and facilities.  It is possible that tobacco manufacturing and other facilities and the facilities of our suppliers, our suppliers’ suppliers and our trade partners could be subject to additional government-mandated temporary closures and restrictions. It is not possible to predict what, if any, additional legislation, regulation or other governmental action will be enacted or implemented (and, if challenged, upheld) relating to the manufacturing, design, packaging, marketing, advertising, sale or use of tobacco products, or the tobacco industry generally.  Any such legislation, regulation or other governmental action could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. ▪ Governmental Investigations: From time to time, we are subject to governmental investigations on a range of matters.  For example, we currently are, or recently have been, subject to a number of governmental investigations with respect to our former investment in JUUL, which we divested in March 2023, including the following: (i) the FTC issued a Civil Investigative Demand to us while conducting its antitrust review of our former investment in JUUL seeking information regarding, among other things, our role in the resignation of JUUL’s former chief executive officer and the hiring by JUUL of any current or former Altria director, executive or employee (see Note 19 for a description of the FTC’s administrative complaint against us and JUUL); (ii) the SEC commenced an investigation relating to our acquisition, disclosures and accounting controls in connection with the JUUL investment; and (iii) the New York State Office of the Attorney General and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts Office of the Attorney General, separately, issued independent subpoenas to us seeking documents relating to our former investment in and provision of services to JUUL.  For a discussion of our disposition of our interest in JUUL, see Note 7. We are a party to lawsuits initiated by the attorneys general of Hawaii and New Mexico relating to our former investment in JUUL.  In April 2023 and January 2024, we agreed to settle the lawsuits initiated by the attorneys general of Minnesota and Alaska, respectively. Private Sector Activity on Tobacco Products A number of retailers, including national chains, have discontinued the sale of all tobacco products, and others have discontinued the sale of e-vapor products.  Reasons for the discontinuation include change in corporate policy and, with respect to e-vapor products, reported illnesses and the uncertain regulatory environment.  Furthermore, third-party digital platforms, such as app stores, have restricted, and in some cases prohibited, communications with adult tobacco consumers concerning tobacco products.  It is possible that if this private sector activity becomes more widespread it could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Illicit Trade in Tobacco Products Illicit trade in tobacco products can have an adverse impact on our business.  Illicit trade can take many forms, including the sale of counterfeit tobacco products; the sale of tobacco products in the United States that are intended for sale outside the country; the sale of 37 untaxed tobacco products over the Internet and by other means designed to avoid the collection of applicable taxes; the sale of unregulated products; and diversion into one taxing jurisdiction of tobacco products intended for sale in another.  Counterfeit tobacco products, for example, are manufactured by unknown third parties in unregulated environments.  Counterfeit versions of our products can negatively affect adult tobacco consumer experiences with and opinions of those brands.  Illegal disposable e-vapor products may be designed to appeal to youth and are manufactured without scientific standards, exposing consumers to undocumented risks.  Illicit trade in tobacco products also harms law-abiding wholesalers and retailers by depriving them of lawful sales and undermines the significant investment we have made in legitimate distribution channels.  Moreover, illicit trade in tobacco products results in federal, state and local governments losing tax revenues.  Losses in tax revenues can cause such governments to take various actions, including increasing excise taxes, imposing legislative or regulatory requirements, or asserting claims against manufacturers of tobacco products or members of the trade channels through which such tobacco products are distributed and sold, each of which may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. We communicate with wholesale and retail trade members regarding illicit trade in tobacco products and how we can help prevent such activities, enforce wholesale and retail trade programs and policies that address illicit trade in tobacco products and, when necessary, litigate to protect our trademarks.  We also engage with the FDA and other government agencies to advocate for a well-regulated U.S. tobacco industry that embraces harm reduction and the enforcement of existing regulatory frameworks. Prohibitory policies, such as California’s ban on the sale of flavored tobacco products, which went into effect in 2022, can have unintended negative consequences, including the proliferation of counterfeit and unregulated products.  We actively engage with regulators, state and federal lawmakers, our trade partners and other stakeholders to bring awareness to these issues.  When appropriate, we also take legal action to protect our lawful e-vapor product business, such as the lawsuit we filed in federal court in California against manufacturers of illegal e-vapor products in October 2023.  Although all but one defendant was dismissed from this suit without prejudice on procedural grounds in January 2024, we intend to continue pursuing this litigation. Price, Availability and Quality of Tobacco, Other Raw Materials, Ingredients and Component Parts Shifts in crops (such as those driven by economic conditions and adverse weather patterns), government restrictions and mandated prices, production control programs, economic trade sanctions, import duties and tariffs, international trade disruptions, inflation, geopolitical instability, climate and environmental changes and disruptions due to man-made or natural disasters may increase the cost or reduce the supply or quality of tobacco, other raw materials, ingredients or component parts used to manufacture our operating companies’ products.  Any significant change in such factors could negatively impact our ability to continue manufacturing and marketing existing products, increase our costs or negatively impact adult tobacco consumer product acceptability and have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability. As with other agricultural commodities, tobacco price, quality and availability can be influenced by variations in weather patterns, including those caused by climate change, and macroeconomic conditions and imbalances in supply and demand, among other factors.  For varieties of tobacco only available in limited geographies, government-mandated prices and production control programs, political instability or government prohibitions on the import or export of tobacco in certain countries pose additional risks to price, availability and quality.  In addition, as consumer demand increases for innovative smoke-free products and decreases for combustible and MST products, the volume of tobacco leaf required for production of these products has decreased, resulting in reduced tobacco leaf demand.  Reduced demand for tobacco leaf may result in the reduced supply and availability of domestic tobacco, as growers divert resources to other crops or cease farming, and increased costs.  The unavailability or unacceptability of any one or more particular varieties of tobacco leaf or the unavailability of nicotine extract necessary to manufacture our operating companies’ products could negatively impact our ability to continue marketing existing products or impact adult tobacco consumer product acceptability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability.  In addition, the nicotine used in our operating companies’ innovative smoke-free products is extracted from tobacco produced in one country.  If we are unable to identify alternate sources of nicotine for our companies’ innovative products, we could be exposed to supply risk. Current macroeconomic conditions and geopolitical instability (including inflation, high interest rates, labor shortages, supply and demand imbalances and geopolitical instability and international armed conflict) have caused and continue to cause worldwide disruptions and delays to supply chains and commercial markets, which limit access to, and increase the cost of, raw materials, ingredients and component parts (for example, tobacco leaf and resins and aluminum used in our packaging).  We have implemented and continue to implement various strategies to help secure sufficient supplies of raw materials, ingredients and component parts for production. In addition, government taxes, restrictions and prohibitions on the sale and use of certain products may limit access to, and increase the costs of, raw materials and component parts and, potentially, impede our ability to sell certain of our products.  For example, certain states have passed extended producer responsibility legislation concerning packaging.  Because certain of our products’ packaging consists of single-use plastics, single-use plastic bans and extended producer responsibility mandates could result in bans on some of our product packaging or our products and adversely impact our costs and revenues.  Additional taxes and limitations on the use of certain single-use plastics have been proposed by the U.S. Congress and various state and local governments.  These existing and potential 38 future laws and regulations could increase the costs of, and impair our ability to, source certain materials used in the packaging for our products. We work to mitigate these risks by maintaining inventory levels of certain tobacco varieties that cover several years, purchasing raw materials, ingredients and component parts from disperse geographic regions throughout the world and entering into long-term contracts with some of our tobacco growers and direct material suppliers.  To date, the impact on us of changes in the price, availability and quality of tobacco, other raw materials, ingredients and component parts has not been material.  However, the effects of the current macroeconomic and geopolitical conditions on prices, availability and quality of such items may continue, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Timing of Sales In the ordinary course of business, we are subject to many influences that can impact the timing of sales to customers, including the timing of holidays and other annual or special events, the timing of promotions, customer incentive programs and customer inventory programs, as well as the actual or speculated timing of pricing actions and tax-driven price increases. Operating Results The following table provides reconciliations of reported OCI to adjusted OCI for our reportable segments, all other category and total OCI and provides the related OCI margins: (1) Reported and adjusted OCI margins are calculated as reported and adjusted OCI, respectively, divided by revenues net of excise taxes. Our U.S. smoke-free portfolio reported the following results for 2023: ▪ Smoke-free volumes of approximately 806 million units were essentially flat when compared to 2022; and ▪ Total smoke-free net revenues were $2.7 billion, which includes net revenues from innovative smoke-free products of $165 million. 39 Smokeable Products Segment Financial Results The following table summarizes operating results, includes reported and adjusted OCI margins and provides a reconciliation of reported OCI to adjusted OCI for our smokeable products segment: (1) Reported and adjusted OCI margins are calculated as reported and adjusted OCI, respectively, divided by revenues net of excise taxes. 2023 Compared with 2022 Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, decreased $720 million (3.2%), due primarily to lower shipment volume ($2,394 million), partially offset by higher pricing ($1,667 million), which includes higher promotional investments. Reported OCI decreased $18 million (0.2%), due primarily to lower shipment volume ($1,490 million), higher per unit settlement charges and lower NPM Adjustment Items ($34 million), mostly offset by higher pricing, which includes higher promotional investments. Adjusted OCI decreased $16 million (0.1%), due primarily to lower shipment volume, higher per unit settlement charges and higher costs ($43 million), mostly offset by higher pricing, which includes higher promotional investments. Marketing, administration and research costs for the smokeable products segment include PM USA’s cost of administering and litigating product liability claims.  Litigation defense costs are influenced by a number of factors, including the number and types of cases filed, the number of cases tried annually, the results of trials and appeals, the development of the law controlling relevant legal issues, and litigation strategy and tactics.  For further discussion on these matters, see Note 19 and Item 3.  For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, product liability defense costs for PM USA were $133 million.  The factors that have influenced past product liability costs are expected to continue to influence future costs.  We do not expect future product liability defense costs for our smokeable products segment to be significantly different from product liability defense costs incurred in 2023. 40 Shipment Volume and Retail Share Results The following table summarizes our smokeable products segment’s shipment volume performance: Note: Cigarettes shipment volume includes Marlboro ; Other premium brands, such as Virginia Slims , Parliament and Benson & Hedges ; and Discount brands, which include L&M , Basic and Chesterfield. Cigarettes volume includes units sold as well as promotional units but excludes units sold for distribution to Puerto Rico, U.S. Territories to overseas military and by Philip Morris Duty Free Inc., none of which, individually or in the aggregate, is material to our smokeable products segment. The following table summarizes our cigarettes retail share performance: Note: Retail share results for cigarettes are based on data from Circana, Inc. and Circana Group, L.P. (“Circana”), as well as, Management Science Associates, Inc.  Circana is a newly formed company reflecting the recent merger of IRI and NPD Group, Inc.  Circana maintains a blended retail service that uses a sample of stores and certain wholesale shipments to project market share and depict share trends.  Similar to prior reporting, this service tracks sales in the food, drug, mass merchandisers, convenience, military, dollar store and club trade classes.  For other trade classes selling cigarettes, retail share is based on shipments from wholesalers to retailers through the Store Tracking Analytical Reporting System (“STARS”), as provided by Management Science Associates, Inc.  This service is not designed to capture sales through other channels, including the internet, direct mail and some illicitly tax-advantaged outlets.  It is the standard practice of retail services to periodically refresh their retail scan services, which could restate retail share results that were previously released in these services. For a discussion of volume trends and factors that impact volume and retail share performance, see Business Environment above. 2023 Compared with 2022 Our smokeable products segment’s reported domestic cigarettes shipment volume decreased 9.9%, driven primarily by the industry’s decline rate (impacted by macroeconomic pressures on adult tobacco consumers’ disposable income and the growth of illicit e-vapor products) and retail share losses, partially offset by trade inventory movements.  When adjusted for trade inventory movements, our smokeable products segment’s domestic cigarettes shipment volume decreased by an estimated 10%.  When adjusted for trade inventory movements and other factors, total estimated domestic cigarette industry volume decreased by an estimated 8%. Shipments of premium cigarettes accounted for 94.8% and 93.6% of our smokeable products segment’s reported domestic cigarettes shipment volume for 2023 and 2022, respectively. Our cigar reported shipment volume increased by 2.8%. Marlboro ’s retail share of the total cigarette category was 42.1%, a decrease of 0.4 share points, due primarily to increased macroeconomic pressures on adult tobacco consumers’ disposable income and increased competitive activity. 41 Total cigarettes industry discount category retail share increased 1.4 share points to 28.3%, due to increased macroeconomic pressures on adult tobacco consumers’ disposable income. For a discussion regarding discount category dynamics in 2023 and the economic conditions, including a high inflationary environment, that impact adult tobacco consumer purchasing behavior, see Operating Results by Business Segment - Business Environment - Summary above. Pricing Actions PM USA and Middleton executed the following pricing and promotional allowance actions during 2023 and 2022: ▪ Effective October 15, 2023, PM USA increased the list price of Marlboro , L&M and Basic by $0.17 per pack.  PM USA also increased the list price of all its other cigarette brands by $0.22 per pack. ▪ Effective July 23, 2023, PM USA increased the list price of Marlboro , L&M and Basic by $0.16 per pack.  PM USA also increased the list price of all its other cigarette brands by $0.21 per pack. ▪ Effective June 11, 2023, Middleton increased various list prices across substantially all of its cigar brands resulting in a weighted-average increase of approximately $0.15 per five-pack. ▪ Effective April 23, 2023, PM USA increased the list price of Marlboro , L&M and Basic by $0.15 per pack.  PM USA also increased the list price of all its other cigarette brands by $0.20 per pack. ▪ Effective January 22, 2023, PM USA increased the list price of Marlboro , L&M , Basic and Chesterfield by $0.15 per pack.  PM USA also increased the list price of all its other cigarette brands by $0.20 per pack. ▪ Effective October 16, 2022, PM USA increased the list price of Marlboro , L&M , Basic and Chesterfield by $0.15 per pack.  PM USA also increased the list price of all its other cigarette brands by $0.20 per pack. ▪ Effective July 17, 2022, PM USA increased the list price on all of its cigarette brands by $0.15 per pack. ▪ Effective May 22, 2022, Middleton increased various list prices across substantially all of its cigar brands resulting in a weighted-average increase of approximately $0.17 per five-pack. ▪ Effective April 24, 2022, PM USA increased the list price of Marlboro , L&M , Basic and Chesterfield by $0.15 per pack.  PM USA also increased the list price of all its other cigarette brands by $0.20 per pack. ▪ Effective January 9, 2022, Middleton increased various list prices across substantially all of its cigar brands resulting in a weighted-average increase of approximately $0.13 per five-pack. In addition: ▪ Effective January 14, 2024, PM USA increased the list price of Marlboro (excluding Mainline Menthol and 72s Menthol) , L&M and Basic by $0.15 per pack.  PM USA also increased the list price of all its other cigarette brands by $0.20 per pack. Oral Tobacco Products Segment Financial Results The following table summarizes operating results, includes reported and adjusted OCI margins and provides a reconciliation of reported OCI to adjusted OCI for our oral tobacco products segment: (1) Reported and adjusted OCI margins are calculated as reported and adjusted OCI, respectively, divided by revenues net of excise taxes. 2023 Compared with 2022 Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $87 million (3.4%) due primarily to higher pricing ($190 million), partially offset by lower shipment volume and a higher percentage of on! shipment volume relative to MST (“volume/mix”) versus 2022 ($100 million). Reported and adjusted OCI increased $90 million (5.5%), due primarily to higher pricing and lower costs , partially offset by lower volume/mix ($104 million). 42 Shipment Volume and Retail Share Results The following table summarizes our oral tobacco products segment’s shipment volume performance: Note: Other primarily includes Red Seal and Husky .  Oral tobacco products shipment volume includes cans and packs sold, as well as promotional units, but excludes international volume, which is currently not material to our oral tobacco products segment.  New types of oral tobacco products, as well as new packaging configurations of existing oral tobacco products, may or may not be equivalent to existing MST products on a can-for-can basis.  To calculate volumes of cans and packs shipped, one pack of snus or one can of oral nicotine pouches, irrespective of the number of pouches in the pack or can, is assumed to be equivalent to one can of MST. The following table summarizes our oral tobacco products segment’s retail share performance (excluding international volume): Note: Our oral tobacco products segment’s retail share results exclude international volume, which is currently not material to our oral tobacco products segment.  Retail share results for oral tobacco products are based on data from Circana, a tracking service that uses a sample of stores to project market share and depict share trends.  This service tracks sales in the food, drug, mass merchandisers, convenience, military, dollar store and club trade classes on the number of cans and packs sold.  Oral tobacco products are defined by Circana as MST, snus and oral nicotine pouches.  New types of oral tobacco products, as well as new packaging configurations of existing oral tobacco products, may or may not be equivalent to existing MST products on a can-for-can basis.  For example, one pack of snus or one can of oral nicotine pouches, irrespective of the number of pouches in the pack or can, is assumed to be equivalent to one can of MST.  Because this service represents retail share performance only in key trade channels, it should not be considered a precise measurement of actual retail share.  It is the standard practice of retail services to periodically refresh their retail scan services, which could restate retail share results that were previously released in these services. For a discussion of volume trends and factors that impact volume and retail share performance, see Business Environment above. 2023 Compared with 2022 Our oral tobacco products segment’s reported domestic shipment volume decreased 2.2%, driven primarily by retail share losses in MST, partially offset by the industry’s growth rate, trade inventory movements and other factors.  When adjusted for trade inventory movements and calendar differences, our oral tobacco products segment’s domestic shipment volume decreased by an estimated 2.5%. Total oral tobacco products category industry volume increased by an estimated 7.5% for the six months ended December 31, 2023, driven primarily by growth in oral nicotine pouches, partially offset by declines in MST volumes. Our oral tobacco products segment’s retail share was 42.8%, as share declines for MST products were driven primarily by the category share growth of oral nicotine pouches. The U.S. nicotine pouch category grew to 31.0% of the U.S. oral tobacco category, an increase of 9.4 share points versus the prior year.  In addition, on! ’s share of the nicotine pouch category was 22.0%. Pricing Actions USSTC and Helix executed the following pricing actions during 2023 and 2022: ▪ Effective August 22, 2023, USSTC increased the list price on its Copenhagen, Red Seal and Skoal brands by $0.09 per can.  In addition, USSTC decreased the list price on select Husky brands by $0.18 per can. ▪ Effective July 23, 2023, Helix increased the list price on its on! brand by $0.09 per can. 43 ▪ Effective April 25, 2023, USSTC increased the list price on its Copenhagen popular price products , Red Seal and Husky brands by $0.09 per can.  In addition, USSTC increased the list price on its Skoal brands and on the balance of its Copenhagen brands by $0.10 per can. ▪ Effective January 24, 2023, USSTC increased the list price on its Copenhagen, Skoal, Red Seal and Husky brands by $0.09 per can. ▪ Effective July 26, 2022, USSTC increased the list price on its Copenhagen popular price products by $0.13 per can.  USSTC also decreased the list price on select Copenhagen brands by $0.11 per can.  In addition, USSTC increased the list price on its Skoal and Red Seal brands and the balance of its Copenhagen brands by $0.09 per can and increased the list price on its Husky brand by $0.12 per can. ▪ Effective May 24, 2022, USSTC increased the list price on its Copenhagen , Skoal and Red Seal brands by $0.09 per can.  USSTC also increased the list price on its Husky brand by $0.12 per can. ▪ Effective February 22, 2022, USSTC increased the list price on its Copenhagen , Skoal and Red Seal brands by $0.08 per can.  USSTC also increased the list price on its Husky brand by $0.12 per can. In addition: ▪ Effective January 23, 2024, USSTC increased the list price on its Copenhagen , Skoal and Red Seal brands by $0.11 per can. E-Vapor Our NJOY e-vapor business is reported in our all other category.  Reported domestic shipment volumes since June 1, 2023 through December 31, 2023 for NJOY consumables (1) and devices were approximately 23.0 million units and 1.3 million units, respectively. In 2023, we strengthened NJOY’s global supply chain to provide sustainable support for the anticipated volume increase associated with our NJOY ACE expansion plans and do not anticipate capacity constraints as we execute our initial expansion plans.  We expanded NJOY ACE distribution to a total of 75,000 stores by the end of 2023, an increase of 40,000 stores since the completion of the NJOY Transaction.  These stores represent approximately 75% of e-vapor volume and 55% of cigarette volume sold in traditional retail. (1) E-vapor shipment volume includes NJOY ACE pods and DAILY disposables. Liquidity and Capital Resources We are a holding company that is primarily dependent on the capital resources of our subsidiaries to satisfy our liquidity requirements.  Our access to the operating cash flows of our subsidiaries consists of cash received from the payment of dividends and distributions, and the payment of interest on intercompany loans.  At December 31, 2023, our significant subsidiaries were not limited by contractual obligations in their ability to pay cash dividends or make other distributions with respect to their equity interests.  In addition, we receive cash dividends on our interest in ABI and will continue to do so as long as ABI pays dividends. At December 31, 2023, we had $3.7 billion of cash and cash equivalents.  In addition to having access to the operating cash flows of our subsidiaries, our capital resources include access to credit markets in the form of commercial paper, availability under our $3.0 billion Credit Agreement (as defined below), which we use for general corporate purposes, and access to credit markets through the issuance of long-term senior unsecured notes.  For additional information, see Capital Markets and Other Matters below. In addition to funding current operations, we primarily use our net cash from operating activities for payment of dividends, share repurchases under our share repurchase programs, repayment of debt, acquisitions of or investments in businesses and assets, and capital expenditures. We believe our cash and cash equivalents balance, along with our future cash flows from operations, capacity for borrowings under our Credit Agreement and access to credit and capital markets, provide sufficient liquidity to meet the needs of our business operations and to satisfy our projected cash requirements for the next 12 months and the foreseeable future. Capital Markets and Other Matters Credit Ratings - Our cost and terms of financing and our access to commercial paper markets may be impacted by applicable credit ratings.  The impact of credit ratings on the cost of borrowings under our Credit Agreement is discussed in Note 9. Short-Term Borrowings and Borrowing Arrangements to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 (“Note 9”). At December 31, 2023, the credit ratings and outlook for our indebtedness by major credit rating agencies were: (1) On June 16, 2023, S&P changed its outlook for our indebtedness to Positive from Stable. 44 Credit Lines - From time to time, we have short-term borrowing needs to meet our working capital requirements arising from the timing of annual MSA payments, quarterly income tax payments and quarterly dividend payments, and generally use our commercial paper program to meet those needs. In October 2023, we entered into a new senior unsecured 5-year revolving credit agreement for borrowings of up to an aggregate principal amount of $3.0 billion (“Credit Agreement”) and terminated our prior credit agreement.  At December 31, 2023, we had availability under our Credit Agreement for borrowings of up to an aggregate principal amount of $3.0 billion, and we were in compliance with the covenants in our Credit Agreement.  We expect to continue to meet the covenants in our Credit Agreement.  We monitor the credit quality of our bank group and do not know of any potential non-performing credit provider in that group.  For further discussion on short-term borrowings, see Note 9. Term Loan Facility - In June 2023, we entered into a $2.0 billion term loan facility and borrowed the full amount available to fund a portion of the cash payments paid at closing in connection with the NJOY Transaction.  We repaid the term loan facility in full in July 2023.  For further details on the term loan facility, see Note 9. Long-Term Debt - At December 31, 2023 and 2022, our total long-term debt was $26.2 billion and $26.7 billion, respectively. During 2023, our long-term debt activity included the following: ▪ Debt Issuance - In November 2023, we issued USD denominated senior unsecured notes in the aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion.  The net proceeds from the notes are being used for general corporate purposes, which included the repayment of notes in the first quarter of 2024 discussed below. ▪ Debt Repayment -  In February and May 2023, we repaid in full at maturity, respectively, (i) senior unsecured Euro notes in the aggregate principal amount of $1.3 billion (€1.25 billion) and (ii) senior unsecured notes in the aggregate principal amount of $218 million. In January and February 2024, we repaid in full at maturity senior unsecured notes in the aggregate principal amount of $776 million and $345 million, respectively. All of our long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 2023 and 2022 was fixed-rate debt.  At December 31, 2023 and 2022, the weighted-average coupon interest rate on total long-term debt was approximately 4.3% and 4.0%, respectively. For further details on long-term debt, see Note 10. Long-Term Debt to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 (“Note 10”). At December 31, 2023, our debt-to-Consolidated net earnings and debt-to-Consolidated EBITDA ratios were calculated as follows: NJOY Acquisition - On June 1, 2023, we funded the NJOY Transaction cash payments at closing of approximately $2.75 billion (net of cash acquired), through a combination of a $2.0 billion term loan facility (discussed above), the issuance of commercial paper and available cash.  We may also be obligated to pay up to $500 million in additional cash payments that are contingent on receipt of FDA authorizations with respect to certain NJOY products.  For further discussion, see Note 3. 45 IQOS Purchase Agreement - In 2022, we entered into an agreement with PMI to, among other things, transition and ultimately conclude our relationship with respect to the IQOS System in the United States.  We received a payment of $1.0 billion in 2022 and an additional payment of approximately $1.8 billion (including interest) in July 2023.  For further discussion, see Item 1 and Note 6. In October 2023, we filed a registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC, under which we may offer debt securities or warrants to purchase debt securities from time to time over a three-year period from the date of filing. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Other Future Contractual Obligations We had no off-balance sheet arrangements, including special purpose entities, other than guarantees and contractual obligations that are discussed below. Guarantees and Other Similar Matters - As discussed in Note 19, we had unused letters of credit obtained in the ordinary course of business and guarantees (including third-party guarantees) outstanding at December 31, 2023.  From time to time, we also issue lines of credit to affiliated entities.  As further discussed in Note 19, as part of the supplier financing program, Altria guarantees the financial obligations of ALCS under the financing program agreement.  In addition, as discussed below in Supplemental Guarantor Financial Information and in Note 10, PM USA guarantees our obligations under our outstanding debt securities, any borrowings under our Credit Agreement and any amounts outstanding under our commercial paper program.  These items have not had, and are not expected to have, a significant impact on our liquidity. Long-Term Debt and Interest on Borrowings - In addition to maturities of long-term debt, we make interest payments based on stated coupon interest rates.  For information on annual debt maturities and interest payments, see Note 10. Purchase Obligations - We have entered into purchase obligations for inventory and production costs (such as raw materials, indirect materials and services, contract manufacturing, packaging, storage and distribution) and other commitments for projected needs to be used in the normal course of business.  Arrangements are considered purchase obligations if a contract specifies all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased, a pricing structure and approximate timing of the transaction.  Most arrangements are cancelable without a significant penalty and with short notice (usually 30 days).  At December 31, 2023, purchase obligations for inventory and production costs for the next 12 months were $0.9 billion and $2.5 billion thereafter. At December 31, 2023, we had $0.7 billion of other purchase obligation commitments for marketing, capital expenditures, information technology and professional services, which occur through the ordinary course of business.  The majority of these commitments are expected to be satisfied within 12 months.  Accounts payable and accrued liabilities are reflected on our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2023 and are excluded from the amounts above. Payments Under State Settlement Agreements and FDA Regulation - As discussed previously and in Note 19, PM USA has entered into State Settlement Agreements with the states, the District of Columbia and certain U.S. territories that call for certain payments.  In addition, PM USA, Middleton and USSTC are subject to quarterly user fees imposed by the FDA as a result of the FSPTCA.  For further discussion of the resolutions of certain disputes with states and territories related to the NPM adjustment provision under the MSA, see Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation - NPM Adjustment Disputes in Note 19. Based on current agreements, estimated market share, estimated annual industry volume decline rates and inflation rates, the estimated amounts that we may charge to cost of sales for payments related to State Settlement Agreements and FDA user fees are $3.4 billion on average for the next three years.  The estimated amount for 2024 includes settling plaintiffs’ attorneys’ fees.  We expect PM USA’s obligations under the State Settlement Agreements to pay these fees will terminate in the fourth quarter of 2024.  In addition, the amount excludes the potential impact of any NPM Adjustment Items. The estimated amounts due under the State Settlement Agreements charged to cost of sales in each year are generally paid in April of the following year.  The amounts charged to cost of sales for FDA user fees are generally paid in the quarter in which the fees are incurred.  We paid approximately $4.3 billion and $4.6 billion for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, in connection with the State Settlement Agreements and FDA user fees, primarily all of which was paid in the second quarter of each period.  As previously stated, the payments due under the terms of the State Settlement Agreements and FDA user fees are subject to adjustment for several factors, including volume, operating income, inflation and certain contingent events and, in general, are allocated based on each manufacturer’s market share.  The future payment amounts discussed above are estimates, and actual payment amounts will differ to the extent underlying assumptions differ from actual future results.  For further discussion on the potential impact of inflation on future payments, see Operating Results by Business Segment - State Settlement Agreements . Litigation-Related Deposits and Payments - With respect to certain adverse verdicts currently on appeal, to obtain stays of judgments pending appeals, as of December 31, 2023, PM USA had posted appeal bonds totaling $35 million, which have been collateralized with restricted cash that is included in assets on our consolidated balance sheet. Litigation is subject to uncertainty, and an adverse outcome or settlement of litigation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial position in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year, as more fully disclosed in Note 19, Item 3 and Item 1A. 46 Other Long-Term Liabilities - We had $1.1 billion of accrued postretirement health care costs on our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2023 and estimate approximately $95 million of annual payments.  In addition, we had accrued pension obligations, substantially all of which are funded from plan assets.  For further information on our postretirement health care and pension obligations, see Note 17.  We are unable to estimate the timing of payments of other long-term liabilities (accrued postemployment costs, income taxes and tax contingencies, and other accruals) included on our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2023. Equity and Dividends Dividends paid in 2023 and 2022 were approximately $6.8 billion and $6.6 billion, respectively, an increase of 2.7%, reflecting a higher dividend rate, partially offset by fewer shares outstanding as a result of shares we repurchased under our share repurchase programs. In the third quarter of 2023, our Board of Directors declared a 4.3% increase in the quarterly dividend rate to $0.98 per share of our common stock versus the previous rate of $0.94 per share.  Our current annualized dividend rate is $3.92 per share.  In the first quarter of 2023, we established a new progressive dividend goal targeting mid-single digits dividend per share growth annually through 2028.  Future dividend payments remain subject to the discretion of our Board. For a discussion of our share repurchase programs, see Note 11. Capital Stock to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 and Part II, Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities in this Form 10-K. Financial Review Cash Provided by/Used in Operating Activities During 2023, net cash provided by operating activities was $9.3 billion compared with $8.3 billion during 2022.  This increase was due primarily to lower payments for income taxes and State Settlement Agreements. We had a working capital deficit at December 31, 2023 and 2022, and believe we have the ability to fund working capital deficits with cash provided by operating activities, borrowings under our Credit Agreement and access to the credit and capital markets. Cash Provided by/Used in Investing Activities During 2023, net cash used in investing activities was $1.3 billion compared with net cash provided by investing activities of $0.8 billion during 2022.  This change was due primarily to the payments for the NJOY Transaction in 2023, partially offset by higher proceeds received from the sale of IQOS System commercialization rights. Capital expenditures for 2023 decreased 4.4% to $196 million.  We expect capital expenditures for 2024 to be in the range of $175 million to $225 million, which are expected to be funded from operating cash flows. Cash Provided by/Used in Financing Activities During 2023, net cash used in financing activities was $8.4 billion compared with $9.5 billion during 2022.  This decrease was due primarily to the issuance of long-term debt in 2023 and lower share repurchases, partially offset by higher repayments of long-term debt and higher dividends paid on our common stock. New Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted See Note 2 for a discussion of issued accounting guidance applicable to, but not yet adopted by, us. Contingencies See Note 19 and Item 3 for a discussion of contingencies. Supplemental Guarantor Financial Information PM USA (“Guarantor”), which is a 100% owned subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc. (“Parent”), has guaranteed the Parent’s obligations under its outstanding debt securities, borrowings under its Credit Agreement and amounts outstanding under its commercial paper program (“Guarantees”).  Pursuant to the Guarantees, the Guarantor fully and unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor, the payment and performance of the Parent’s obligations under the guaranteed debt instruments (“Obligations”), subject to release under certain customary circumstances as noted below. The Guarantees provide that the Guarantor guarantees the punctual payment when due, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, of the Obligations.  The liability of the Guarantor under the Guarantees is absolute and unconditional irrespective of: any lack of validity, enforceability or genuineness of any provision of any agreement or instrument relating thereto; any change in the time, manner or place of payment of, or in any other term of, all or any of the Obligations, or any other amendment or waiver of or any consent to departure from any agreement or instrument relating thereto; any exchange, release or non-perfection of any collateral, or any release or amendment or waiver of or consent to departure from any other guarantee, for all or any of the Obligations; or any other circumstance that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, the Parent or the Guarantor. 47 Under applicable provisions of federal bankruptcy law or comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer law, the Guarantees could be voided, or claims in respect of the Guarantees could be subordinated to the debts of the Guarantor, if, among other things, the Guarantor, at the time it incurred the Obligations evidenced by the Guarantees: ▪ received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration therefor; and ▪ either: ▪ was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of such occurrence; ▪ was engaged in a business or transaction for which the assets of the Guarantor constituted unreasonably small capital; or ▪ intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature. In addition, under such circumstances, the payment of amounts by the Guarantor pursuant to the Guarantees could be voided and required to be returned to the Guarantor, or to a fund for the benefit of the Guarantor, as the case may be. The measures of insolvency for purposes of the foregoing considerations will vary depending upon the law applied in any proceeding with respect to the foregoing.  Generally, however, the Guarantor would be considered insolvent if: ▪ the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, was greater than the saleable value of its assets, all at a fair valuation; ▪ the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or ▪ it could not pay its debts as they become due. To the extent the Guarantees are voided as a fraudulent conveyance or held unenforceable for any other reason, the holders of the guaranteed debt obligations would not have any claim against the Guarantor and would be creditors solely of the Parent. The obligations of the Guarantor under the Guarantees are limited to the maximum amount as will not result in the Guarantor’s obligations under the Guarantees constituting a fraudulent transfer or conveyance, after giving effect to such maximum amount and all other contingent and fixed liabilities of the Guarantor that are relevant under Bankruptcy Law, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act or any similar federal or state law to the extent applicable to the Guarantees.  For this purpose, “Bankruptcy Law” means Title 11, U.S. Code, or any similar federal or state law for the relief of debtors. The Guarantor will be unconditionally released and discharged from the Obligations upon the earliest to occur of: ▪ the date, if any, on which the Guarantor consolidates with or merges into the Parent or any successor; ▪ the date, if any, on which the Parent or any successor consolidates with or merges into the Guarantor; ▪ the payment in full of the Obligations pertaining to such Guarantees; and ▪ the rating of the Parent’s long-term senior unsecured debt by S&P of A or higher. The Parent is a holding company; therefore, its access to the operating cash flows of its wholly owned subsidiaries consists of cash received from the payment of dividends and distributions, and the payment of interest on intercompany loans by its subsidiaries.  Neither the Guarantor nor other 100% owned subsidiaries of the Parent that are not guarantors of the debt (“Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries”) are limited by contractual obligations on their ability to pay cash dividends or make other distributions with respect to their equity interests. 48 The following tables include summarized financial information for the Parent and the Guarantor.  Transactions between the Parent and the Guarantor (including investment and intercompany balances as well as equity earnings) have been eliminated.  The Parent’s and the Guarantor’s intercompany balances with Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries have been presented separately.  This summarized financial information is not intended to present the financial position or results of operations of the Parent or the Guarantor in accordance with GAAP. Summarized Balance Sheets (in millions of dollars) Summarized Statements of Earnings (Losses) (in millions of dollars) (1) For the year ended December 31, 2023, net earnings (losses) include an approximate $10.8 billion loss related to the cancellation of certain interests in a non-guarantor subsidiary, $309 million of intercompany interest income from non-guarantor subsidiaries and $389 million of interest expense from non-guarantor subsidiaries. (2) For the year ended December 31, 2023, net earnings (losses) include $245 million of intercompany interest income from non-guarantor subsidiaries.