********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Summary Risk Factors The Company is subject to a number of risks that if realized could materially adversely affect its business, results of operations, cash flow, financial condition or prospects. The following is a summary of the principal risk factors facing the Company: 25 • The Company is dependent on its patent rights, and if its patent rights are invalidated or circumvented, its business could be materially adversely affected. • As the Company’s products lose market exclusivity, the Company generally experiences a significant and rapid loss of sales from those products. • Key products generate a significant amount of the Company’s profits and cash flows, and any events that adversely affect the markets for its leading products could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. • The Company’s research and development efforts may not succeed in developing commercially successful products and the Company may not be able to acquire commercially successful products in other ways; consequently, the Company may not be able to replace sales of successful products that lose patent protection. • The Company’s success is dependent on the successful development and marketing of new products, which are subject to substantial risks. • The Company faces continued pricing pressure with respect to its products. • Unfavorable or uncertain economic conditions, together with cost-reduction measures being taken by certain governments, could negatively affect the Company’s operating results. • The Company faces intense competition from both lower cost generic products and competitors’ products. • The Company has significant global operations, which expose it to additional risks, and any adverse event could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. • Climate change or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change may negatively affect the Company’s business, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. • Environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters may impact the Company’s business and reputation. • Failure to attract and retain highly qualified personnel could affect the Company’s ability to successfully develop and commercialize products. • The Company may experience difficulties and delays in manufacturing certain of its products, including vaccines. • The Company may not be able to realize the expected benefits of its investments in emerging markets. • The Company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates. • Pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or efficacy concerns. • Reliance on third-party relationships and outsourcing arrangements could materially adversely affect the Company’s business. • Negative events in the animal health industry could have a material adverse effect on future results of operations and financial condition of the Company or its Animal Health business. • Biologics and vaccines carry unique risks and uncertainties, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s future results of operations and financial condition. • The health care industry in the U.S. has been, and will continue to be, subject to increasing regulation and political action. • The Company’s products, including products in development, cannot be marketed unless the Company obtains and maintains regulatory approval. • Developments following regulatory approval may adversely affect sales of the Company’s products. • The Company is subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws and regulations. 26 • The Company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws, which may result in additional liabilities that may affect results of operations and financial condition. • Adverse outcomes in current or future legal matters could negatively affect Merck’s business. • Product liability insurance for products may be limited, cost prohibitive or unavailable. • The Company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated software applications and computing infrastructure. The Company continues to be a target of cyber-attacks that could lead to a disruption of its worldwide operations, including manufacturing, research and sales operations. • Social media and mobile messaging platforms present risks and challenges. The above list is not exhaustive, and the Company faces additional challenges and risks. Investors should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Form 10-K, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of the Company’s securities. Risk Factors The risks below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks not currently known to the Company or that the Company presently deems immaterial may also impair its business operations. The Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow or prospects could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. This Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company’s results could materially differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks it faces described below and elsewhere. See “Cautionary Factors that May Affect Future Results” below. Risks Related to the Company’s Business The Company is dependent on its patent rights, and if its patent rights are invalidated or circumvented, its business could be materially adversely affected. Patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of material importance to the Company’s marketing of human health and animal health products in the U.S. and in most major foreign markets. Patents covering products that it has introduced normally provide market exclusivity, which is important for the successful marketing and sale of its products. The Company seeks patents covering each of its products in each of the markets where it intends to sell the products and where meaningful patent protection is available. Even if the Company succeeds in obtaining patents covering its products, third parties or government authorities may challenge or seek to invalidate or circumvent its patents and patent applications. It is important for the Company’s business to successfully assert and defend the patent rights that provide market exclusivity for its products. The Company is often involved in patent disputes relating to challenges to its patents or claims by third parties of infringement against the Company. The Company asserts and defends its patents both within and outside the U.S., including by filing claims of infringement against other parties. See Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” Note 11. “Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities” below. In particular, manufacturers of generic or biosimilar pharmaceutical products from time to time file abbreviated NDAs or BLAs with the FDA seeking to market generic/biosimilar forms of the Company’s products prior to the expiration of relevant patents owned or licensed by the Company. The Company normally responds by asserting one or more of its patents with a lawsuit alleging patent infringement. Patent litigation and other challenges to the Company’s patents are costly and unpredictable and may deprive the Company of market exclusivity for a patented product or, in some cases, third-party patents may prevent the Company from marketing and selling a product in a particular geographic area. Additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of national emergencies or in other circumstances, which could diminish or eliminate sales and profits from those regions and negatively affect the Company’s results of operations. Further, court decisions relating to other companies’ patents, potential legislation in both the U.S. and certain foreign markets relating to patents, as well as regulatory initiatives may result in a more general weakening of intellectual property protection. If one or more important products lose patent protection in profitable markets, sales of those products are likely to decline significantly as a result of generic versions of those products becoming available. The Company’s results of operations may be adversely affected by the lost sales unless and until the Company has launched commercially successful products that replace the lost sales. In addition, if products that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with acquisitions experience difficulties in the market that negatively affect product cash flows, the Company may recognize material non-cash impairment charges with respect to the value of those products. 27 A chart listing the key patent protection for certain of the Company’s marketed products, and U.S. patent protection for candidates in Phase 3 clinical development is set forth above in Item 1. “Business — Patents, Trademarks and Licenses.” As the Company’s products lose market exclusivity, the Company generally experiences a significant and rapid loss of sales from those products. The Company depends upon patents to provide it with exclusive marketing rights for its products for some period of time. Loss of patent protection for one of the Company’s products typically leads to a significant and rapid loss of sales for that product as lower priced generic versions of that drug become available. In the case of products that contribute significantly to the Company’s sales, the loss of market exclusivity can have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. In 2023, the Company lost market exclusivity for Bridion in the EU and the Company has experienced a substantial decline in Bridion sales in those markets. Bridion lost market exclusivity in Japan in January 2024 and will lose market exclusivity in the U.S. in 2026 (subject to patent litigation discussed below) and the Company expects that sales in those markets will decline substantially thereafter. In addition, the Company expects to lose market exclusivity in the U.S. for Keytruda in 2028 and the Company anticipates that sales of Keytruda in the U.S. will decline substantially thereafter. Key products generate a significant amount of the Company’s profits and cash flows, and any events that adversely affect the markets for its leading products could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s ability to generate profits and operating cash flow depends largely upon the continued profitability of the Company’s key products, such as Keytruda , Gardasil/Gardasil 9, Lynparza, Bravecto , and Bridion . In 2023, the Company’s oncology portfolio, led by Keytruda , and its vaccines portfolio, led by Gardasil/Gardasil 9 , represented substantially all of the Company’s revenue growth. In particular, in the aggregate, in 2023, sales of Keytruda and Gardasil/Gardasil 9 represented 56% of the Company’s total sales. As a result of the Company’s dependence on key products, any event that adversely affects any of these products or the markets for any of these products could have a significant adverse impact on results of operations and financial condition. These events could include loss of patent protection, increased costs associated with manufacturing, generic or over-the-counter availability of the Company’s product or a competitive product, the discovery of previously unknown side effects, results of post-approval trials, increased competition from the introduction of new, more effective treatments and discontinuation or removal from the market of the product for any reason. Such events could have a material adverse effect on the sales of any such products. The Company’s research and development efforts may not succeed in developing commercially successful products and the Company may not be able to acquire commercially successful products in other ways; consequently, the Company may not be able to replace sales of successful products that lose patent protection. In order to remain competitive, the Company, like other major pharmaceutical companies, must continue to launch new products. Expected declines in sales of products after the loss of market exclusivity mean that the Company’s future success is dependent on its pipeline of new products, including new products that it may develop through collaborations and joint ventures and products that it is able to obtain through license or acquisition. To accomplish this, the Company commits substantial effort, funds and other resources to research and development, both through its own dedicated resources and through various collaborations with third parties. There is a high rate of failure inherent in the research and development process for new drugs and vaccines. As a result, there is a high risk that funds invested by the Company in research programs will not generate financial returns. This risk profile is compounded by the fact that this research has a long investment cycle. To bring a pharmaceutical compound from the discovery phase to market may take a decade or more and failure can occur at any point in the process, including later in the process after significant funds have been invested. For a description of the research and development process, see Item 1. “Business — Research and Development” above. Each phase of testing is highly regulated and during each phase there is a substantial risk that the Company will encounter serious obstacles or will not achieve its goals. Therefore, the Company may abandon a product in which it has invested substantial amounts of time and resources. Some of the risks encountered in the research and development process include the following: preclinical testing of a new compound may yield disappointing results; competing products from other manufacturers may reach the market first; clinical trials of a new drug may not be successful; a new drug may not be effective or may have harmful side effects; a new drug may not be approved by the regulators for its intended use; it may not be possible to obtain a patent for a new drug; payers may refuse to cover or reimburse the new product; or sales of a new product may be disappointing. 28 The Company cannot state with certainty when or whether any of its products now under development will be approved or launched; whether it will be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire compounds, product candidates or products; or whether any products, once launched, will be commercially successful. The Company must maintain a continuous flow of successful new products and successful new indications for existing products sufficient both to cover its substantial research and development costs and to replace sales that are lost as profitable products lose market exclusivity or are displaced by competing products or therapies. Failure to do so in the short term or long term would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, cash flow, financial condition and prospects. The Company’s success is dependent on the successful development and marketing of new products, which are subject to substantial risks. Products that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or fail to succeed for numerous reasons, including the following: • findings of ineffectiveness, superior safety or efficacy of competing products, or harmful side effects in clinical or preclinical testing; • failure to receive the necessary regulatory approvals, including delays in the approval of new products and new indications, or the anticipated labeling, and uncertainties about the time required to obtain regulatory approvals and the benefit/risk standards applied by regulatory agencies in determining whether to grant approvals; • failure in certain markets to obtain reimbursement commensurate with the level of innovation and clinical benefit presented by the product; • lack of economic feasibility due to manufacturing costs or other factors; and • preclusion from commercialization by the proprietary rights of others. In the future, if certain pipeline programs are cancelled or if the Company believes that their commercial prospects have been reduced, the Company may recognize material non-cash impairment charges for those programs that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with acquisitions or certain collaborations. Failure to successfully develop and market new products in the short term or long term would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, cash flow, financial condition and prospects. The Company faces continued pricing pressure with respect to its products. The Company faces continued pricing pressure globally and, particularly in mature markets, from managed care organizations, government agencies and programs that could negatively affect the Company’s sales and profit margins. In the U.S., these include (i) U.S. federal laws and regulations related to Medicare and Medicaid, including the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, the ACA, and the IRA, (ii) practices of managed care groups and institutional and governmental purchasers, and (iii) state activities aimed at increasing price transparency, including new laws as noted above in Item 1. “Competition and the Health Care Environment.” Changes to the health care system enacted as part of health care reform in the U.S., as well as increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, could result in further pricing pressures. As noted in Item 1. “Competition and the Health Care Environment,” in 2023, HHS included Januvia in the first year of the IRA’s price setting program, which absent further legislative or court intervention will result in a government set price becoming effective on January 1, 2026. Furthermore, the Company anticipates that HHS will include Keytruda in a subsequent selection of products to undergo IRA price setting, with such price likely to be effective in early 2028. In addition, in the U.S., larger customers have received higher rebates on drugs in certain highly competitive categories. The Company must also compete to be placed on formularies of managed care organizations. Exclusion of a product from a formulary can lead to reduced usage in the managed care organization. In order to provide information about the Company’s pricing practices, the Company annually posts on its website its Pricing Transparency Report for the U.S. The report provides the Company’s average annual list price and net price increases across the Company’s U.S. portfolio dating back to 2010. In 2023, the Company’s gross U.S. sales were reduced by 37% as a result of rebates, discounts and returns. Outside the U.S., numerous major markets, including the EU, Japan and China have pervasive government involvement in funding health care and, in that regard, fix the pricing and reimbursement of pharmaceutical and vaccine products. Consequently, in those markets, the Company is subject to government 29 decision making and budgetary actions with respect to its products. In Japan, the pharmaceutical industry is subject to government-mandated annual price reductions of pharmaceutical products and certain vaccines. Furthermore, the Japanese government can order re-pricing for specific products if it determines that use of such product will exceed certain thresholds defined under applicable re-pricing rules. The Company expects pricing pressures to continue in the future. Unfavorable or uncertain economic conditions, together with cost-reduction measures being taken by certain governments, could negatively affect the Company’s operating results. The Company’s business may be adversely affected by local and global economic conditions, including with respect to inflation, interest rates, and costs of raw materials and packaging. Uncertainty in global economic and geopolitical conditions may result in a slowdown to the global economy that could affect the Company’s business by reducing the prices that drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers may be able or willing to pay for the Company’s products or by reducing the demand for the Company’s products, which could in turn negatively impact the Company’s sales and result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. As discussed above in Item 1. “Competition and the Health Care Environment,” global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access worldwide. Changes to the U.S. health care system as part of health care reform, as well as increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, have contributed to pricing pressure. In several international markets, government-mandated pricing actions have reduced prices of generic and patented drugs. In addition, the Company’s sales performance in 2023 was negatively affected by other cost-reduction measures taken by governments and other third parties to lower health care costs. The Company anticipates all of these actions, and additional actions in the future, will negatively affect sales and profits. If credit and economic conditions worsen, the resulting economic and currency impacts in the affected markets and globally could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results. The Company faces intense competition from both lower cost generic products and competitors’ products. In general, the Company faces increasing competition from lower-cost generic products. The patent rights that protect its products are of varying strengths and durations. In addition, in some countries, patent protection is significantly weaker than in the U.S. or in the EU. In the U.S. and the EU, political pressure to reduce spending on prescription drugs has led to legislation and other measures that encourage the use of generic and biosimilar products. Although it is the Company’s policy to actively protect its patent rights, generic challenges to the Company’s products can arise at any time, and the Company’s patents may not prevent the emergence of generic competition for its products. Loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic substitutes, reducing the Company’s sales of that product. Availability of generic substitutes for the Company’s drugs may adversely affect its results of operations and cash flow. In addition, proposals emerge from time to time in the U.S. and other countries for legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs. Any such proposal that is enacted into law could worsen this substantial negative effect on the Company’s sales, business, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Also, the Company’s products face intense competition from competitors’ products. This competition may increase as new products enter the market. In such an event, the competitors’ products may be safer or more effective, more convenient to use, have better insurance coverage or reimbursement levels or be more effectively marketed and sold than the Company’s products. Alternatively, in the case of generic competition, including the generic availability of competitors’ branded products, they may be equally safe and effective products that are sold at a substantially lower price than the Company’s products. As a result, if the Company fails to maintain its competitive position, this could have a material adverse effect on its business, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. In addition, if products that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with acquisitions experience difficulties in the market that negatively impact product cash flows, the Company may recognize material non-cash impairment charges with respect to the value of those products. 30 The Company has significant global operations, which expose it to additional risks, and any adverse event could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The extent of the Company’s operations outside the U.S. is significant. Risks inherent in conducting a global business include: • changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs and pricing restrictions in key markets; • multiple regulatory requirements that could restrict the Company’s ability to manufacture and sell its products in key markets; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, including the imposition of trade sanctions or similar restrictions by the U.S. or other governments; • foreign exchange fluctuations; • diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries; and • possible nationalization and expropriation. In addition, there may be changes to the Company’s business if there is instability, disruption or destruction in a significant geographic region, regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or social unrest; and natural or man-made disasters, including famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or disease. Events like these, such as the ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine, and rising conflict in the Middle East, could result in material adverse effects on macroeconomic conditions, currency exchange rates and financial markets, and may adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Climate change or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change may negatively affect the Company’s business, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. The Company believes that climate change has the potential to negatively affect its business and results of operations, cash flow and prospects. The Company is exposed to physical risks (such as extreme weather conditions, inland flooding or rising sea levels), risks in transitioning to a low-carbon economy (such as additional legal or regulatory requirements, changes in technology, market risk and reputational risk) and social and human effects (such as population dislocations and harm to health and well-being) associated with climate change. These risks can be either acute (short-term) or chronic (long-term). The adverse impacts of climate change include increased frequency and severity of natural disasters and extreme weather events such as hurricanes, tornados, wildfires (exacerbated by drought), flooding, and extreme heat. Extreme weather, inland flooding and sea-level rise pose physical risks to the Company’s facilities as well as those of its suppliers. Such risks include losses incurred as a result of physical damage to facilities, loss or spoilage of inventory, and business interruption caused by such natural disasters and extreme weather events. Other potential physical impacts due to climate change include reduced access to high-quality water in certain regions and the loss of biodiversity, which could impact future product development. These risks could disrupt the Company’s operations and its supply chain, which may result in increased costs. New legal or regulatory requirements may be enacted to prevent, mitigate, or adapt to the implications of a changing climate and its effects on the environment. These regulations, which may differ across jurisdictions, could result in the Company being subject to new or expanded carbon pricing or taxes, increased compliance costs, restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions, investment in new technologies, increased greenhouse gas emission disclosure (including costs resulting from mandatory or voluntary reporting, diligence or disclosure) and transparency, recurring investments in data gathering and reporting systems, upgrades of facilities to meet new building codes, and the redesign of utility systems, which could increase the Company’s operating costs, including the cost of electricity and energy used by the Company. The Company’s supply chain would likely be subject to these same transitional risks and would likely pass along any increased costs to the Company, which may affect the Company’s ability to procure raw materials or other supplies required for the operation of the Company’s business at the quantities and levels required. 31 Environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters may impact the Company’s business and reputation. Governmental authorities, non-governmental organizations, customers, investors, external stakeholders and employees are increasingly sensitive to ESG concerns, such as diversity and inclusion, climate change, water use, recyclability or recoverability of packaging, and plastic waste. This focus on ESG concerns may lead to new requirements that could result in increased costs associated with developing, manufacturing and distributing the Company’s products, and related reporting obligations. The Company’s ability to compete could also be affected by changing customer preferences and requirements, such as growing demand for validated net zero greenhouse gas emission targets and more environmentally friendly products, packaging or supplier practices, or by failure to meet such customer expectations or demand. While the Company strives to improve its ESG performance and has set certain ESG goals and initiatives, the Company risks negative shareholder reaction, including from proxy advisory services, as well as damage to its brand and reputation and inability to attract and retain employee talent, if the Company fails to meet its goals and initiatives or otherwise does not act responsibly, or if the Company is perceived to not be acting responsibly, in key ESG areas, including equitable access to medicines and vaccines, product quality and safety, diversity and inclusion, environmental stewardship, reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, support for local communities, corporate governance and transparency, and addressing human capital factors in the Company’s operations. Responding to these ESG considerations and implementation of the Company’s ESG goals and initiatives involves risks and uncertainties, requires investments, and depends in part on third-party performance or data that is outside of the Company’s control. In addition, some stakeholders may disagree with the Company’s ESG goals and initiatives. If the Company does not meet the evolving and varied ESG expectations of its investors, customers and other stakeholders, the Company could experience reduced demand for its products, loss of customers, and other negative impacts on the Company’s business and results of operations. In addition, the Company is subject to expanding ESG mandatory and voluntary reporting, diligence and disclosure requirements, including the EU’s Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) and potentially the SEC’s proposed climate-related reporting requirements, the recently enacted legislation in California requiring reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and climate risk, and similar regulatory requirements in other jurisdictions. These evolving regulatory requirements are likely to result in increased costs and complexities of compliance in order to collect, measure and report on the relevant ESG-related information. Failure to attract and retain highly qualified personnel could affect the Company’s ability to successfully develop and commercialize products. The Company’s success is largely dependent on its continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and management personnel, as well as personnel with expertise in clinical research and development, governmental regulation and commercialization. Competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical industry, both in the U.S. and internationally, is intense. The Company cannot be sure that it will be able to attract and retain quality personnel or that the costs of doing so will not materially increase. The Company may experience difficulties and delays in manufacturing certain of its products, including vaccines. Merck has, in the past, experienced difficulties in manufacturing certain of its products, including vaccines. For example, in 2020 the Company issued a product recall for Zerbaxa following the identification of product sterility issues and in 2023 the Company voluntarily recalled certain batches of Vaxneuvance in the U.S. due to instances of syringe breakage. The Company may, in the future, experience other difficulties and delays in manufacturing its products, such as (i) failure of the Company or any of its vendors or suppliers to comply with Current Good Manufacturing Practices and other applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines that could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays in product manufacturing; (ii) delays related to the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for the Company’s products; and (iii) other manufacturing or distribution problems including supply chain delays, shortages in raw materials, changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced, or physical limitations that could impact continuous supply. As previously disclosed, the Company is working to reduce the level of nitrosamines in its sitagliptin-containing medicines such as Januvia . The Company has made significant progress in reducing the level of nitrosamines and is now consistently releasing product in major markets that is expected to comply with the health authorities’ long-term limit. However, difficulties in reducing those levels, or achieving timely regulatory approvals for required changes, could result in product shortages. In addition, the Company could experience difficulties or delays in manufacturing its products caused by natural disasters, such as hurricanes. Manufacturing difficulties can result in product shortages, leading to lost sales and reputational harm to the Company. 32 The Company may not be able to realize the expected benefits of its investments in emerging markets. The Company has been taking steps to increase its sales in emerging markets. However, there is no guarantee that the Company’s efforts to expand sales in these markets will succeed. Some countries within emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to periods of global financial instability or may have very limited resources to spend on health care. In order for the Company to operate successfully in emerging markets, it must attract and retain qualified personnel. The Company may also be required to increase its reliance on third-party agents within less developed markets, which may affect its ability to realize continued growth and may also increase the Company’s risk exposure. In addition, many of these countries have currencies that fluctuate substantially and, if such currencies devalue and the Company cannot offset the devaluations, the Company’s financial performance within such countries could be adversely affected. The Company’s business in China has grown rapidly in the past few years, and the importance of China to the Company’s overall pharmaceutical and vaccines business outside the U.S. has increased accordingly. In addition to its commercial operations, the Company has significant research and manufacturing operations in China, including working with Chinese entities such as Wuxi Apptech Co., Ltd. If geopolitical tensions were to increase and disrupt the Company’s operations in China, such disruption could result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s product development, sales, business, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Also, continued growth of the Company’s business in China is dependent upon ongoing development of a favorable environment for innovative pharmaceutical products and vaccines, sustained access for the Company’s currently marketed products, and the absence of trade impediments or adverse pricing controls. As noted above in Item 1. “Competition and the Health Care Environment,” pricing pressure in China has increased as the Chinese government has been taking steps to reduce costs, including implementing health care reform that has led to the acceleration of generic substitution, where available. While the mechanism for drugs being added to the NRDL evolves, inclusion may require a price negotiation which could impact the outlook in the market for selected brands. A new NRDL was recently completed in which new entries averaged 60% price reductions. While pricing pressure has always existed in China, health care reform has increased this pressure in part due to the acceleration of generic substitution through the government’s VBP program. In 2019, the government implemented the VBP program through a tendering process for mature products which have generic substitutes with a Generic Quality Consistency Evaluation approval. Mature products that have entered into the last five rounds of VBP had, on average, a price reduction of more than 50%. The Company expects VBP to be a semi-annual process that will have a significant impact on mature products moving forward. For all these reasons, sales within emerging markets carry significant risks. However, at the same time, macro-economic growth of selected emerging markets is expected to lead to significant increased health care spending in those countries and access to innovative medicines for patients. A failure to maintain the Company’s presence in emerging markets could therefore have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. The Company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Company operates in multiple jurisdictions and virtually all sales are denominated in currencies of the local jurisdiction. Additionally, the Company has entered and will enter into business development transactions, borrowings or other financial transactions that may give rise to currency and interest rate exposure. Since the Company cannot, with certainty, foresee and mitigate against such adverse changes, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, interest rates and inflation could negatively affect the Company’s business, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. For example, Argentina is currently experiencing hyperinflation, which is affecting the Company’s operations in that market. In order to mitigate against the adverse impact of these market fluctuations, the Company will from time to time enter into hedging agreements. While hedging agreements, such as currency options and forwards and interest rate swaps, may limit some of the exposure to exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, such attempts to mitigate these risks may be costly and not always successful. Pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or efficacy concerns. Unexpected safety or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals, or declining sales, as well as product liability, consumer fraud and/or other claims, including potential civil or criminal governmental actions. 33 Reliance on third-party relationships and outsourcing arrangements could materially adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company depends on third parties, including suppliers, distributors, alliances with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and third-party service providers, for key aspects of its business including development, manufacture and commercialization of its products and support for its information technology (IT) systems. Failure of these third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory and other obligations to the Company or the development of factors that materially disrupt the relationships between the Company and these third parties could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Negative events in the animal health industry could have a material adverse effect on future results of operations and financial condition of the Company or its Animal Health business. Future sales of key animal health products could be adversely affected by a number of risk factors including certain risks that are specific to the animal health business. For example, the outbreak of disease carried by animals, such as African Swine Fever or Avian Influenza, could lead to their widespread death and precautionary destruction as well as the reduced consumption and demand for animals, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Also, the outbreak of any highly contagious diseases near the Company’s main production sites could require the Company to immediately halt the manufacture of its animal health products at such sites or force the Company to incur substantial expenses in procuring raw materials or products elsewhere. Other risks specific to animal health include epidemics and pandemics affecting livestock, government procurement and pricing practices, weather and global agribusiness economic events. In addition, in 2023, sales of Bravecto were $1.1 billion, which represented 19% of the Company’s Animal Health segment sales. Any negative event with respect to Bravecto could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s Animal Health sales. If the Animal Health segment of the Company’s business becomes more significant, the impact of any such events on future results of operations could also become more significant. Biologics and vaccines carry unique risks and uncertainties, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s future results of operations and financial condition. The successful development, testing, manufacturing and commercialization of biologics and vaccines, particularly human and animal health vaccines, is a long, complex, expensive and uncertain process. There are unique risks and uncertainties related to biologics and vaccines, including: • There may be limited access to, and supply of, normal and diseased tissue samples, cell lines, pathogens, bacteria, viral strains and other biological materials. In addition, government regulations in multiple jurisdictions, such as the U.S. and the EU, could result in restricted access to, or transport or use of, such materials. If the Company loses access to sufficient sources of such materials, or if tighter restrictions are imposed on the use of such materials, the Company may not be able to conduct research activities as planned and may incur additional development costs. • The development, manufacturing and marketing of biologics and vaccines are subject to regulation by the FDA, the EMA and other regulatory bodies. These regulations are often more complex and extensive than the regulations applicable to other pharmaceutical products. For example, in the U.S., a BLA, including both preclinical and clinical trial data and extensive data regarding the manufacturing procedures, is required for human vaccine candidates, and FDA approval is generally required for the release of each manufactured commercial human vaccine lot. • Manufacturing biologics and vaccines, especially in large quantities, is complex and may require the use of innovative technologies to handle living micro-organisms. Each lot of an approved biologic and vaccine must undergo thorough testing for identity, strength, quality, purity and potency. Manufacturing biologics requires facilities specifically designed for and validated for this purpose, and sophisticated quality assurance and quality control procedures are necessary. Slight deviations anywhere in the manufacturing process, including filling, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping and quality control and testing, may result in lot failures, product recalls or spoilage. When changes are made to the manufacturing process, the Company may be required to provide preclinical and clinical data showing the comparable identity, strength, quality, purity or potency of the biologics and vaccines before and after such changes. • Biologics and vaccines are costly to manufacture because production ingredients are derived from living animal or plant material, and most biologics and vaccines cannot be made synthetically. In particular, keeping up with the demand for vaccines may be difficult due to the complexity of producing vaccines. 34 • The use of biologically derived ingredients can lead to variability in the manufacturing process and could lead to allegations of harm, including infections or allergic reactions, which allegations would be reviewed through a standard investigation process that could lead to closure of product facilities due to possible contamination. Any of these events could result in substantial costs. Risks Relating to Government Regulation and Legal Proceedings The health care industry in the U.S. has been, and will continue to be, subject to increasing regulation and political action. As discussed above in Item 1. “Competition and the Health Care Environment,” the Company believes that the health care industry will continue to be subject to increasing regulation as well as political and legal action, as future proposals to reform the health care system are considered by the Executive branch, Congress and state legislatures. In 2022, Congress passed the IRA, which makes significant changes to how drugs are covered and paid for under the Medicare program, including the creation of financial penalties for drugs whose prices rise faster than the rate of inflation, redesign of the Medicare Part D program to require manufacturers to bear more of the liability for certain drug benefits, and government price-setting for certain Medicare Part D drugs, starting in 2026, and Medicare Part B drugs starting in 2028. As noted in Item 1. “Competition and the Health Care Environment,” in 2023, HHS included Januvia in the first year of the IRA’s price setting program, which absent further legislative or court intervention will result in a government set price becoming effective on January 1, 2026. Furthermore, the Company anticipates that HHS will include Keytruda in a subsequent selection of products to undergo IRA price setting, with such price likely to be effective in early 2028. In addition, in 2021, Congress passed the American Rescue Plan Act, which included a provision that eliminates the statutory cap on rebates drug manufacturers pay to Medicaid beginning in January 2024. These rebates act as a discount off the list price and eliminating the cap means that manufacturer discounts paid to Medicaid can increase. Prior to this change, manufacturers have not been required to pay more than 100% of the Average Manufacturer Price (AMP) in rebates to state Medicaid programs for Medicaid-covered drugs. As a result of this provision, beginning in 2024, manufacturers may have to pay state Medicaid programs more in rebates than they received on sales of particular products. This change presents a risk to Merck for drugs that have high Medicaid utilization and rebate exposure that is more than 100% of the AMP. In the U.S., the Biden Administration and Congress continue to discuss legislation designed to control health care costs, including the cost of drugs. The Company cannot predict what additional future changes in the health care industry in general, or the pharmaceutical industry in particular, will occur; however, any changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. The Company’s products, including products in development, cannot be marketed unless the Company obtains and maintains regulatory approval. The Company’s activities, including research, preclinical testing, clinical trials and the manufacturing and marketing of its products, are subject to extensive regulation by numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities in the U.S., including the FDA, and by foreign regulatory authorities, including in the EU, Japan and China. In the U.S., the FDA administers requirements covering the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals and vaccines. In some cases, the FDA requirements have increased the amount of time and resources necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the U.S. Regulation outside the U.S. also is primarily focused on drug safety and effectiveness and, in many cases, reduction in the cost of drugs. The FDA and foreign regulatory authorities, including in the EU, Japan and China, have substantial discretion to require additional testing, to delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and to otherwise preclude distribution and sale of a product. Even if the Company is successful in developing new products, it will not be able to market any of those products unless and until it has obtained all required regulatory approvals (which in limited circumstances may include authorizations for emergency use) in each jurisdiction where it proposes to market the new products. Once obtained, the Company must maintain approval as long as it plans to market its new products in each jurisdiction where approval is required. The Company’s failure to obtain approval, significant delays in the approval process, or its failure to maintain approval in any jurisdiction will prevent it from selling the products in that jurisdiction and realizing sales. 35 Developments following regulatory approval may adversely affect sales of the Company’s products. Even after a product reaches the market, certain developments following regulatory approval may decrease demand for the Company’s products, including the following: • results in post-approval Phase 4 trials or other studies; • the re-review of products that are already marketed; • the recall or loss of marketing approval of products that are already marketed; • changing government standards or public expectations regarding safety, efficacy, quality or labeling changes; • scrutiny of advertising and promotion; and • the withdrawal of indications granted pursuant to accelerated approvals. In the past, clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs of the Company and of competitors within the industry have raised concerns that have led to recalls, withdrawals or adverse labeling of marketed products. Clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance of certain marketed drugs also have raised concerns among some prescribers and patients relating to the safety or efficacy of pharmaceutical products in general that have negatively affected the sales of such products. In addition, increased scrutiny of the outcomes of clinical trials has led to increased volatility in market reaction. Further, these matters often attract litigation and, even where the basis for the litigation is groundless, considerable resources may be needed to respond. In addition, following in the wake of product withdrawals and other significant safety issues, health authorities such as the FDA, the EMA, Japan’s PMDA and China’s NMPA have increased their focus on safety when assessing the benefit/risk balance of drugs. Some health authorities appear to have become more cautious when making decisions about approvability of new products or indications. If previously unknown side effects are discovered or if there is an increase in negative publicity regarding known side effects of any of the Company’s products, it could significantly reduce demand for the product or require the Company to take actions that could negatively affect sales, including removing the product from the market, restricting its distribution or applying for labeling changes. Further, in the current environment in which all pharmaceutical companies operate, the Company is at risk for product liability and consumer protection claims and civil and criminal governmental actions related to its products, research and/or marketing activities. In addition, dissemination of promotional materials through evolving digital channels serves to increase visibility and scrutiny in the marketplace. The Company is subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws and regulations. The Company is currently subject to a number of government laws and regulations and, in the future, could become subject to new government laws and regulations. The costs of compliance with such laws and regulations, or the negative results of non-compliance, could adversely affect the business, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition and prospects of the Company; these laws and regulations include (i) additional health care reform initiatives in the U.S. or in other countries, including additional mandatory discounts or fees;  (ii) the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) or other anti-bribery and corruption laws; (iii) new laws, regulations and judicial or other governmental decisions affecting pricing, drug reimbursement, and access or marketing within or across jurisdictions; (iv) changes in intellectual property laws; (v) changes in accounting standards; (vi) new and increasing data privacy regulations and enforcement, particularly in the EU, the U.S., and China; (vii) legislative mandates or preferences for local manufacturing of pharmaceutical or vaccine products; (viii) emerging and new global regulatory requirements for reporting payments and other value transfers to health care professionals; (ix) environmental regulations, such as the EU’s CSRD; and (x) the potential impact of importation restrictions, embargoes, trade sanctions and legislative and/or other regulatory changes. The Company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws, which may result in additional liabilities that may affect results of operations and financial condition. The Company is subject to evolving and complex tax laws in the jurisdictions in which it operates. Significant judgment is required for determining the Company’s tax liabilities, and the Company’s tax returns are routinely examined by various tax authorities. In connection with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project, companies are required to disclose more information to tax authorities on operations around the world, which may lead to greater audit scrutiny of profits earned in other 36 countries. The Company believes that its accrual for tax contingencies is adequate for all open years based on past experience, interpretations of tax law, and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities; however, due to the complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued. In addition, the Company may be negatively affected by changes in tax laws, or new tax laws, affecting, for example, tax rates, and/or revised tax law interpretations in domestic or foreign jurisdictions, including, among others, any potential changes to the existing U.S. tax law by the current U.S. Presidential administration and Congress, as well as any changes in tax law resulting from the implementation of the OECD’s two-pillar solution to reform the international tax landscape . The Company has taken the position, based on the opinions of tax counsel, that its distribution of Organon common stock in connection with the 2021 Spin-Off qualifies as a transaction that is tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If any facts, assumptions, representations, and undertakings from the Company and Organon regarding the past and future conduct of their respective businesses and other matters are incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, the Spin-Off may not qualify for tax-free treatment, which could result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities for the Company and its shareholders. Adverse outcomes in current or future legal matters could negatively affect Merck’s business. Current or future litigation, claims, proceedings and government investigations could preclude or delay the commercialization of Merck’s products or could adversely affect Merck’s business, results of operations, cash flow, prospects and financial condition. Such legal matters may include, but are not limited to: (i) intellectual property disputes; (ii) adverse decisions in litigation, including product safety and liability, consumer protection and commercial cases; (iii) anti-bribery regulations, such as the FCPA, including compliance with ongoing reporting obligations to the government resulting from any settlements; (iv) recalls or withdrawals of pharmaceutical products or forced closings of manufacturing plants; (v) product pricing and promotional matters; (vi) lawsuits, claims and administrative proceedings asserting, or investigations into, violations of securities, antitrust, Federal and state pricing, consumer protection, data privacy and other laws and regulations; (vii) environmental, health, safety and sustainability matters, including regulatory actions in response to climate change; and (viii) tax liabilities resulting from assessments from tax authorities. See Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” Note 11, “Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities” for more information on the Company’s legal matters. Product liability insurance for products may be limited, cost prohibitive or unavailable. As a result of a number of factors, product liability insurance has become less available while the cost of such insurance has increased significantly. The Company is subject to a substantial number of product liability claims. See Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” Note 11. “Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities” below for more information on the Company’s current product liability litigation. With respect to product liability, the Company self-insures substantially all of its risk, as the availability of commercial insurance has become more restrictive. The Company has evaluated its risks and has determined that the cost of obtaining product liability insurance outweighs the likely benefits of the coverage that is available and, as such, has no insurance for most product liabilities. The Company will continually assess the most efficient means to address its risk; however, there can be no guarantee that insurance coverage will be obtained or, if obtained, will be sufficient to fully cover product liabilities that may arise. Risks Related to Technology The Company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated software applications and computing infrastructure. The Company continues to be a target of cyber-attacks that could lead to a disruption of its worldwide operations, including manufacturing, research and sales operations. The Company is increasingly dependent on sophisticated software applications, complex information technology systems, computing infrastructure, and cloud service providers (collectively, IT systems) to conduct critical operations and financial reporting. Certain of these systems are managed, hosted, provided or used by third parties to assist in conducting the Company’s business. Disruption, degradation, or manipulation of these IT systems through intentional or accidental means by the Company’s employees, third parties with authorized access or unauthorized third parties could adversely affect key business processes. Cyber-attacks against the Company’s IT systems or third-party providers’ IT systems, such as cloud-based systems, could result in exposure of confidential information, the modification of critical data, and/or the failure of critical operations. Misuse of any of these IT systems could result in the disclosure of sensitive personal information or the theft of trade secrets, intellectual property, or other confidential business information. The Company continues to leverage new and innovative technologies across the enterprise to replace outmoded technology and improve the efficacy and efficiency of its business processes, including data 37 acquisition; the use of which can create new risks. In addition, the Company’s Animal Health business sells technology products that, when deployed, could potentially be compromised by a third party and cause disruption both internally and externally. Although the aggregate impact of cyber-attacks and network disruptions on the Company’s operations and financial condition has not been material to date, the Company continues to be a target of events of this nature and expects them to continue. The Company monitors its data, information technology and personnel usage of Company IT systems to identify and attempt to reduce these risks and continues to do so on an ongoing basis for any current or potential threats. There can be no assurance that the Company’s efforts to protect its data and IT systems or the efforts of third-party providers to protect their IT systems will be successful in preventing disruptions to the Company’s operations, including its manufacturing, research, and sales operations. Such disruptions have in the past and could in the future result in loss of revenue, or the loss of critical or sensitive information from the Company’s or the Company’s third-party providers’ databases or IT systems and have in the past and could in the future also result in financial, legal, business or reputational harm to the Company and substantial remediation costs. The Company’s growing use of artificial intelligence (AI) systems to automate processes, analyze data, and support decision-making poses inherent risks. Flaws, biases, or malfunctions in these systems could lead to operational disruptions, data loss, or erroneous decision-making, impacting the Company’s business operations, financial condition, and reputation. Ethical and legal challenges may arise, including biases or discrimination in AI outcomes, non-compliance with data protection regulations, and lack of transparency. Furthermore, the deployment of AI systems could expose the Company to increased cybersecurity threats, such as data breaches and unauthorized access leading to financial losses, legal liabilities, and reputational damage. The Company also faces competitive risks if it fails to adopt AI or other machine learning technologies in a timely fashion. Social media and mobile messaging platforms present risks and challenges. The inappropriate and/or unauthorized use of certain social media and mobile messaging channels could cause brand damage or information leakage or could lead to legal implications, including from the improper collection and/or dissemination of personally identifiable information. In addition, negative or inaccurate posts or comments about the Company or its products on any social networking platforms could damage the Company’s reputation, brand image and goodwill. Further, the disclosure of non-public Company-sensitive information by the Company’s workforce or others through external media channels could lead to information loss. Although there are internal Company Social Media and Mobile Messaging Policies that guide employees on appropriate personal and professional use of these platforms for communication about the Company, the processes in place may not completely secure and protect information. Identifying new points of entry as new communication tools expand also presents new challenges. Cautionary Factors that May Affect Future Results (Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) This report and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the Company may contain so-called “forward-looking statements,” all of which are based on management’s current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause results to differ materially from those set forth in the statements. One can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of words such as “anticipates,” “expects,” “plans,” “will,” “estimates,” “forecasts,” “projects” and other words of similar meaning, or negative variations of any of the foregoing. One can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. These statements are likely to address the Company’s growth strategy, financial results, product approvals, product potential, development programs, environmental or other sustainability initiatives. One must carefully consider any such statement and should understand that many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the Company’s forward-looking statements. These factors include inaccurate assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are not. No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual future results may vary materially. The Company does not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. The Company cautions you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Although it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors, they may include the following: • Competition from generic and/or biosimilar products as the Company’s products lose patent protection. • Increased “brand” competition in therapeutic areas important to the Company’s long-term business performance. • The difficulties and uncertainties inherent in new product development. The outcome of the lengthy and complex process of new product development is inherently uncertain. A drug candidate can fail at any stage of 38 the process and one or more late-stage product candidates could fail to receive regulatory approval. New product candidates may appear promising in development but fail to reach the market because of efficacy or safety concerns, the inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, the difficulty or excessive cost to manufacture and/or the infringement of patents or intellectual property rights of others. Furthermore, the sales of new products may prove to be disappointing and fail to reach anticipated levels. • Pricing pressures, both in the U.S. and abroad, including rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and health care reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement and pricing in general. • Changes in government laws and regulations, including laws governing intellectual property, and the enforcement thereof affecting the Company’s business. • Efficacy or safety concerns with respect to marketed products, whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls, withdrawals or declining sales. • Significant changes in customer relationships or changes in the behavior and spending patterns of purchasers of health care products and services, including delaying medical procedures, rationing prescription medications, reducing the frequency of physician visits and foregoing health care insurance coverage. • Legal factors, including product liability claims, antitrust litigation and governmental investigations, including tax disputes, environmental concerns and patent disputes with branded and generic competitors, any of which could preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect the profitability of existing products. • Cyber-attacks on the Company’s or third-party providers’ information technology systems, which could disrupt the Company’s operations. • Lost market opportunity resulting from delays and uncertainties in the approval process of the FDA and/or foreign regulatory authorities. • Increased focus on privacy issues in countries around the world, including the U.S., the EU, and China. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing amount of focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect directly the Company’s business, including laws in a majority of states in the U.S. requiring security breach notification. • Changes in tax laws including changes related to the taxation of foreign earnings. • Changes in accounting pronouncements promulgated by standard-setting or regulatory bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC, that are adverse to the Company. • Economic factors over which the Company has no control, including changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. This list should not be considered an exhaustive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. See “Risk Factors” above.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following section of this Form 10-K generally discusses 2023 and 2022 results and year-to-year comparisons between 2023 and 2022. Discussion of 2021 results and year-to-year comparisons between 2022 and 2021 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022 filed on February 24, 2023 . Description of Merck’s Business Merck & Co., Inc. (Merck or the Company) is a global health care company that delivers innovative health solutions through its prescription medicines, including biologic therapies, vaccines and animal health products. The Company’s operations are principally managed on a product basis and include two operating segments, Pharmaceutical and Animal Health, both of which are reportable segments. The Pharmaceutical segment includes human health pharmaceutical and vaccine products. Human health pharmaceutical products consist of therapeutic and preventive agents, generally sold by prescription, for the treatment of human disorders. The Company sells these human health pharmaceutical products primarily to drug wholesalers and retailers, hospitals, government agencies and managed health care providers such as health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers and other institutions. Human health vaccine products consist of preventive pediatric, adolescent and adult vaccines. The Company sells these human health vaccines primarily to physicians, wholesalers, distributors and government entities. The Animal Health segment discovers, develops, manufactures and markets a wide range of veterinary pharmaceutical and vaccine products, as well as health management solutions and services, for the prevention, treatment and control of disease in all major livestock and companion animal species. The Company also offers an extensive suite of digitally connected identification, traceability and monitoring products. The Company sells its products to veterinarians, distributors, animal producers, farmers and pet owners. On June 2, 2021, Merck completed the spin-off of products from its women’s health, biosimilars and established brands businesses into a new, independent, publicly traded company named Organon & Co. (Organon) through a distribution of Organon’s publicly traded stock to Company shareholders. The established brands included in the transaction consisted of dermatology, non-opioid pain management, respiratory, select cardiovascular products, as well as the rest of Merck’s diversified brands franchise. The historical results of the businesses that were contributed to Organon in the spin-off have been reflected as discontinued operations in the Company’s consolidated financial statements through the date of the spin-off (see Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements). Overview Financial Highlights (1) Non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share (EPS) exclude acquisition- and divestiture-related costs, restructuring costs, income and losses from investments in equity securities, and certain other items from Merck’s results prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (GAAP). For further discussion and a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP net income and EPS, see “Non-GAAP Income and Non-GAAP EPS from Continuing Operations” below . Executive Summary Merck’s performance during 2023 reflects strong execution of its science-led strategy. The Company benefited from strong underlying demand across its innovative portfolio, made disciplined investments to leverage 44 leading edge science, and advanced its broad pipeline which includes growing diversity across new therapeutic areas and modalities. Additionally, Merck completed several strategic business development transactions and returned capital to shareholders, primarily through dividends. Worldwide sales were $60.1 billion in 2023, an increase of 1% compared with 2022, or 4% excluding the unfavorable effect of foreign exchange. The sales increase was primarily due to growth in oncology, vaccines, hospital acute care and animal health, partially offset by declines in virology (driven by lower sales of COVID-19 medication Lagevrio ) and diabetes. Merck continues to execute strategic business development opportunities to augment its robust internal pipeline with compelling external science. Highlights of 2023 activity include the following: • Entered into a global development and commercialization agreement for three of Daiichi Sankyo’s deruxtecan (DXd) antibody drug conjugate (ADC) candidates, which are in various stages of clinical development for the treatment of multiple solid tumors both as monotherapy and/or in combination with other treatments. • Acquired Prometheus Biosciences, Inc. (Prometheus), a clinical-stage biotechnology company pioneering a precision medicine approach for the discovery, development, and commercialization of novel therapeutic and companion diagnostic products for the treatment of immune-mediated diseases including ulcerative colitis, Crohn’s disease, and other autoimmune conditions. • Closed a license and collaboration agreement expanding the Company’s relationship with Kelun-Biotech pursuant to which Merck gained exclusive rights for the research, development, manufacture and commercialization of up to now five investigational preclinical ADCs for the treatment of cancer (Kelun-Biotech retained rights for certain licensed and option ADCs for Chinese mainland, Hong Kong and Macau). • Acquired Imago BioSciences, Inc. (Imago), a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company developing new medicines for the treatment of myeloproliferative neoplasms and other bone marrow diseases. During 2023, the Company received more than 25 regulatory approvals in major markets, including numerous regulatory approvals within oncology. Keytruda received approval for additional indications in the U.S. and/or internationally as monotherapy in the therapeutic areas of non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma (PMBCL), in combination with chemotherapy in the therapeutic areas of biliary tract cancer, gastric or gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) adenocarcinoma and NSCLC, as well as in combination with Padcev (enfortunab vedotin-ejfv) for advanced urothelial cancer. Lynparza, which is being developed in collaboration with AstraZeneca PLC (AstraZeneca), received approvals in the U.S. in combination with abiraterone and prednisone or prednisolone and in Japan in combination with abiraterone and prednisolone - both for the treatment of certain adult patients with BRCA -mutated ( BRCA m) metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC). Welireg was approved for a supplemental indication in the U.S. for the treatment of adult patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) following a programmed death receptor-1 (PD-1) or programmed death-ligand (PD-L1) inhibitor and a vascular endothelial growth factor tyrosine kinase inhibitor (VEGF-TKI). Additionally, in 2023, Prevymis was approved for a supplemental indication in both the U.S. and the EU for prophylaxis (prevention) of cytomegalovirus (CMV) disease in certain adult kidney transplant recipients at high risk. In addition to the recent regulatory approvals discussed above, the Company advanced its late-stage pipeline with several regulatory submissions. • MK-7962, sotatercept, a novel investigational activin signaling inhibitor is under priority review by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and under review by the European Medicines Agency for the treatment of adult patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). 45 • V116, an investigational 21-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine for the prevention of invasive pneumococcal disease and pneumococcal pneumonia in adults, is also under priority review by the FDA. • MK-1022, patritumab deruxtecan, is an ADC being evaluated for the treatment of certain types of NSCLC under priority review by the FDA. Patritumab deruxtecan is part of a collaboration with Daiichi Sankyo. • Additionally, Keytruda is under review in the U.S. and/or in international markets for supplemental indications for the treatment of certain patients with biliary tract, cervical, endometrial, gastric, non-small-cell lung and urothelial cancers. • Welireg is under review in the EU for the treatment of certain patients with advanced RCC and for the treatment of von Hippel-Lindau disease. During 2023, the Company initiated more than 20 Phase 3 studies across multiple asset classes, including the progression of eight novel candidates. The Company is diversifying its oncology portfolio and executing on its strategy which is broadly based on three strategic pillars: immuno-oncology, precision molecular targeting and tissue targeting. Merck’s Phase 3 oncology programs within these pillars are as follows: Immuno-oncology • Keytruda in the therapeutic areas of cutaneous squamous cell, hepatocellular, mesothelioma, ovarian and small-cell lung cancers; • MK-1308A, the coformulation of quavonlimab, Merck’s novel investigational anti-CTLA-4 antibody, and pembrolizumab for RCC; • MK-3475A, the subcutaneous coformulation of pembrolizumab with hyaluronidase for certain types of NSCLC; • MK-4280A, the coformulation of favezelimab, Merck’s novel investigational anti-LAG3 therapy, and pembrolizumab for colorectal cancer and hematological malignancies; • MK-7684A, the coformulation of vibostolimab, an anti-TIGIT therapy, and pembrolizumab for certain types of melanoma, non-small-cell and small-cell lung cancers; and • V940, an investigational individualized neoantigen therapy, in combination with Keytruda , for certain types of melanoma and NSCLC, being developed in collaboration with Moderna. Precision molecular targeting • Lynparza in combination with Keytruda for non-small-cell lung and small-cell lung cancers; • Lenvima, being developed in collaboration with Eisai Co., Ltd. (Eisai), in combination with Keytruda for certain types of esophageal and gastric cancers; • MK-1026, nemtabrutinib, an oral, reversible, non-covalent Bruton’s tyrosine kinase (BTK) inhibitor, for hematological malignancies; • MK-3543, bomedemstat, an investigational orally available lysine-specific demethylase 1 inhibitor for myeloproliferative disorders; and • MK-5684, an investigational cytochrome P450 11A1 (CYP11A1) inhibitor being developed in collaboration with Orion Corporation (Orion) for mCRPC. Tissue targeting • MK-2870, an investigational trophoblast cell-surface antigen 2 (TROP2)-directed ADC being developed in collaboration with Kelun-Biotech for endometrial carcinoma and certain types of NSCLC. Additionally, the Company currently has candidates in Phase 3 clinical development in several other therapeutic areas including: • MK-0616, an investigational, oral proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) inhibitor for hypercholesterolemia; • MK-1654, clesrovimab, a human monoclonal antibody for the prevention of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV); • MK-7240, tulisokibart, a humanized monoclonal antibody directed to tumor necrosis factor-like ligand 1A, a target associated with both intestinal inflammation and fibrosis, for ulcerative colitis; 46 • MK-8591A, islatravir, an investigational nucleoside reverse transcriptase translocation inhibitor, in combination with doravirine for the treatment of HIV-1 infection (which is on partial clinical hold for higher doses than those used in current clinical trials); and • MK-4482, Lagevrio , which is reflected in Phase 3 development in the U.S. as it remains investigational following Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) in 2021. Merck’s capital allocation strategy continues to prioritize investments in its business to drive near- and long-term growth, including investing in opportunities to address important unmet medical needs and supporting the Company’s commercial opportunities. In addition, Merck remains committed to its dividend and will continue to pursue the most compelling external science and technologies through value-enhancing business development transactions. Research and development expenses in 2023 reflect higher charges for business development transactions and increased development spending particularly in the therapeutic areas of oncology, cardiovascular, infectious diseases and vaccines. In November 2023, Merck’s Board of Directors approved an increase to the Company’s quarterly dividend, raising it to $0.77 per share from $0.73 per share on the Company’s outstanding common stock. During 2023, the Company returned $8.8 billion to shareholders through dividends of $7.4 billion and share repurchases of $1.3 billion. GAAP and Non-GAAP EPS were negatively affected in 2023, 2022 and 2021 by $6.21, $0.22, and $0.65, respectively, of charges for certain upfront and pre-approval milestone payments related to collaborations and licensing agreements, as well as charges related to pre-approval assets obtained in transactions accounted for as asset acquisitions. Pricing Global efforts toward health care cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing and market access worldwide. Changes to the U.S. health care system enacted in prior years as part of health care reform, as well as increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, have contributed to pricing pressure. In several international markets, government-mandated pricing actions have reduced prices of generic and patented drugs. In addition, the Company’s sales performance in 2023 was negatively affected by other cost-reduction measures taken by governments and other third parties to lower health care costs. In 2022, the U.S. Congress passed the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), which makes significant changes to how drugs are covered and paid for under the Medicare program, including the creation of financial penalties for drugs whose prices rise faster than the rate of inflation, redesign of the Medicare Part D program to require manufacturers to bear more of the liability for certain drug benefits, and government price-setting for certain Medicare Part D drugs (starting in 2026) and Medicare Part B drugs (starting in 2028). In August 2023, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), through the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), announced that Januvia will be included in the first year of the IRA’s “Drug Price Negotiation Program” (Program). Pursuant to the IRA’s Program, discussions with the government occurred in 2023 and will continue in 2024, with government price-setting becoming effective on January 1, 2026. The Company has sued the U.S. government regarding the IRA’s Program (see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements). Furthermore, the Biden 47 Administration and Congress continue to discuss legislation designed to control health care costs, including the cost of drugs. The Company anticipates all of these actions and additional actions in the future will negatively affect sales and profits. Operating Results Sales Worldwide sales grew 1% to $60.1 billion in 2023 primarily due to higher sales in the oncology franchise, largely due to strong growth of Keytruda and Welireg , as well as increased alliance revenue from Lenvima and Lynparza. Also contributing to revenue growth were higher sales in the vaccines franchise, primarily attributable to growth of combined sales of Gardasil/Gardasil 9 and the ongoing launch of Vaxneuvance for pediatric use. Higher sales of hospital acute care products, including Prevymis and Bridion , as well as higher sales of animal health products also drove revenue growth in 2023. Sales growth in 2023 was largely offset by lower sales in the virology franchise, largely due to Lagevrio , as well as Isentress/Isentress HD . Lower sales in the diabetes franchise, due to Januvia and Janumet , lower sales of the Pneumovax 23 vaccine, and lower revenue from third-party manufacturing arrangements also offset sales growth in 2023. Sales in the U.S. grew 5% to $28.5 billion in 2023 primarily driven by higher sales of Keytruda , Vaxneuvance , Bridion and Welireg . Revenue growth in the U.S. in 2023 was partially offset by lower sales of Lagevrio , Pneumovax 23, Janumet , Januvia , and lower revenue from third-party manufacturing arrangements. International sales declined 1% in 2023 primarily due to lower sales of Lagevrio , Januvia, Janumet , and Isentress/Isentress HD . The international sales decline in 2023 was largely offset by higher combined sales of Gardasil/Gardasil 9, as well as higher sales of Keytruda , Prevymis and Vaxneuvance. International sales represented 53% and 54% of total sales in 2023 and 2022, respectively. See Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for details on sales of the Company’s products. A discussion of performance for select products in the franchises follows. Pharmaceutical Segment Oncology * > 100% (1) Alliance revenue represents Merck’s share of profits, which are product sales net of cost of sales and commercialization costs (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). (2) Alliance revenue represents royalties and, for 2022, also includes a payment received related to the achievement of a regulatory approval milestone (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). Keytruda is an anti-PD-1 therapy that has been approved in over 35 indications in the U.S., including 17 tumor types and 2 tumor-agnostic indications, and has similarly been approved in markets worldwide for many of these indications. The Keytruda clinical development program includes studies across a broad range of cancer types. Global sales of Keytruda grew 19% in 2023 primarily driven by higher demand reflecting the launch of multiple new indications globally coupled with continued uptake in existing indications. Sales growth in the U.S. reflects increased uptake across earlier-stage indications including in high-risk early-stage triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), as well as certain types of RCC and melanoma, and higher demand across the multiple approved 48 metastatic indications, in particular for the treatment of certain types of RCC, NSCLC, TNBC, head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), endometrial and bladder cancers, as well as higher pricing. Keytruda sales growth in international markets reflects higher demand predominately for the TNBC and RCC earlier-stage indications, as well as uptake in HNSCC and RCC metastatic indications, particularly in Europe, Latin America, and the Asia Pacific region, including Japan. Summarized below are the Keytruda regulatory approvals received in 2023 and, to date, in 2024. 49 The Company is a party to certain third-party license agreements pursuant to which the Company pays royalties on sales of Keytruda . Under the terms of the more significant of these agreements, Merck paid a royalty of 6.5% on worldwide sales of Keytruda through December 2023 to one third party; this royalty will decline to 2.5% for 2024 through 2026 and will terminate thereafter. The Company pays an additional 2% royalty on worldwide sales of Keytruda to another third party, the termination date of which varies by country; this royalty will expire in the U.S. in September 2024 and on varying dates in major European markets in the second half of 2025. The royalties are included in Cost of sales . Lynparza is an oral poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitor being developed as part of a collaboration with AstraZeneca (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). Lynparza is approved for the treatment of certain types of advanced or recurrent ovarian, early or metastatic breast, metastatic pancreatic and metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancers. Alliance revenue related to Lynparza grew 7% in 2023 largely due to higher pricing in the U.S., as well as higher demand in several international markets. Lynparza received the following regulatory approvals in 2023 summarized below. Lenvima is an oral receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor being developed as part of a collaboration with Eisai (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). Lenvima is approved for the treatment of certain types of thyroid cancer, RCC, HCC, in combination with everolimus for certain patients with advanced RCC, and in combination with Keytruda for certain patients with advanced endometrial carcinoma or advanced RCC. Alliance revenue related to Lenvima grew 10% in 2023 reflecting higher demand and pricing in the U.S. and higher demand in Europe, partially offset by lower demand in China. Sales of Welireg , for the treatment of adult patients with certain von Hippel-Lindau disease-associated tumors and certain adult patients with previously treated advanced RCC, increased 77% in 2023 due to continued uptake in the U.S. following launch in 2021. In December 2023, the FDA approved a supplemental new drug application (NDA) for Welireg for the treatment of adult patients with advanced RCC following a PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitor and a VEGF-TKI, based on the LITESPARK-005 clinical trial. Reblozyl is a first-in-class erythroid maturation recombinant fusion protein obtained as part of Merck’s November 2021 acquisition of Acceleron Pharma Inc. (Acceleron) that is being commercialized through a global collaboration with Bristol Myers Squibb Company (BMS) (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). Reblozyl is approved for the treatment of anemia in certain rare blood disorders. Alliance revenue related to this collaboration consists of royalties and, for 2022, also includes the receipt of a regulatory approval milestone payment of $20 million. Alliance revenue increased 28% in 2023 due to strong underlying sales performance, partially offset by the receipt of the regulatory approval milestone in 2022 as noted above. 50 Vaccines * > 100% Combined worldwide sales of Gardasil and Gardasil 9, vaccines to help prevent certain cancers and other diseases caused by certain types of human papillomavirus (HPV), grew 29% in 2023 driven by strong demand outside of the U.S., particularly in China due in part to continued uptake of the expanded indication of Gardasil 9 for girls and women 9 to 45 years of age. Sales of Gardasil 9 in the U.S. increased slightly due to higher pricing and demand, largely offset by public sector buying patterns. The Company is a party to certain third-party license agreements pursuant to which the Company pays royalties on sales of Gardasil/Gardasil 9. Under the terms of the more significant of these agreements, Merck pays a 7% royalty on sales of Gardasil/Gardasil 9 in the U.S. to one third party (this royalty expires in December 2028); Merck paid an additional 7% royalty on worldwide sales of Gardasil/Gardasil 9 to another third party, which expired in December 2023. The royalties are included in Cost of sales . Global sales of ProQuad , a pediatric combination vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps, rubella and varicella, grew 4% in 2023 primarily due to higher pricing in the U.S., partially offset by lower demand in Europe. Worldwide sales of M-M-R II, a vaccine to help protect against measles, mumps and rubella, grew 5% in 2023 primarily due to higher demand in certain international markets and higher pricing in the U.S., partially offset by lower demand in the U.S. Global sales of Varivax, a vaccine to help prevent chickenpox (varicella), grew 8% in 2023 primarily attributable to higher pricing and demand in the U.S., as well as higher demand in the Asia Pacific region, partially offset by lower demand in Latin America. Worldwide sales of Vaxneuvance , a vaccine to help protect against invasive pneumococcal disease, increased to $665 million in 2023 primarily due to continued uptake in the pediatric indication in the U.S. and launches in European markets. Vaxneuvance is currently launched in 19 markets with additional launches planned. Merck is a party to a third-party license agreement pursuant to which the Company pays a royalty of 7.25% on net sales of Vaxneuvance through 2026; this royalty will decline to 2.5% on net sales from 2027 through 2035. The royalties are included in Cost of sales . Worldwide sales of Pneumovax 23, a vaccine to help prevent pneumococcal disease, declined 32% in 2023 due to lower demand in the U.S. as the market continues to shift toward newer adult pneumococcal conjugate vaccines following changes in the recommendations of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices in 2021. The Company expects the decline in U.S. sales of Pneumovax 23 to continue. The Pneumovax 23 U.S. sales decline in 2023 was partially offset by higher demand in several international markets. Hospital Acute Care Global sales of Bridion , for the reversal of two types of neuromuscular blocking agents used during surgery, grew 9% in 2023 reflecting higher demand in the U.S., attributable in part to Bridion ’s increased share among neuromuscular blockade reversal agents, as well as higher pricing, partially offset by generic competition in 51 international markets, particularly in the EU. The patent that provided market exclusivity for Bridion in the EU expired in July 2023. Accordingly, the Company is experiencing sales declines of Bridion in these markets and expects the declines to continue. The patent that provided market exclusivity for Bridion in Japan expired in January 2024; the Company anticipates sales of Bridion in Japan will decline in future periods. Worldwide sales of Prevymis , a medicine for prophylaxis (prevention) of CMV infection and disease in certain high risk adult recipients of an allogenic hematopoietic stem cell transplant and for prophylaxis of CMV disease in certain high risk adult recipients of a kidney transplant, grew 41% in 2023 largely due to higher demand in the U.S. and Europe, as well as continued uptake from the 2022 launch in China. In June 2023, the FDA approved Prevymis for prophylaxis of CMV disease in certain adult kidney transplant recipients at high risk following priority review, based on the P002 clinical trial. In November 2023, the EC also approved Prevymis for this indication. Worldwide sales of Dificid , for the treatment of C. difficile -associated diarrhea, grew 15% in 2023 due to higher demand in the U.S. Cardiovascular (1) Alliance revenue represents Merck’s share of profits from sales in Bayer’s marketing territories, which are product sales net of cost of sales and commercialization costs (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). Adempas and Verquvo are part of a worldwide collaboration with Bayer AG (Bayer) to market and develop soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC) modulators (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). Adempas is approved for the treatment of certain types of PAH and chronic pulmonary hypertension. Verquvo is approved to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death and heart failure hospitalization following a hospitalization for heart failure or need for outpatient intravenous diuretics in adults with symptomatic chronic heart failure and reduced ejection fraction. Verquvo was approved in the U.S., the EU and Japan in 2021 and has since been approved in several other markets. Alliance revenue from the collaboration grew 8% in 2023 reflecting higher profit sharing, which reflects increased demand in Bayer’s marketing territories. Revenue also includes sales of Adempas and Verquvo in Merck’s marketing territories. Sales of Adempas in Merck’s marketing territories grew 7% in 2023 primarily reflecting higher demand. Virology * > 100% Lagevrio is an investigational oral antiviral COVID-19 medicine being developed in a collaboration with Ridgeback Biotherapeutics LP (Ridgeback) (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). Following initial authorizations in certain markets in the fourth quarter of 2021, Lagevrio has since received multiple additional authorizations. Sales of Lagevrio declined to $1.4 billion in 2023 compared with $5.7 billion in 2022. The decline in sales of Lagevrio in 2023 primarily reflects sales of Lagevrio in the UK in 2022 that did not recur in 2023, as well as lower sales in the U.S., Japan and Australia. Sales of Lagevrio in the U.S. in 2022 consisted of sales to the U.S. government. In November 2023, following authorization from the FDA, the Company began the transition from government supply to commercial distribution in the U.S. for Lagevrio while under EUA. In April 2023, Japan’s MHLW granted full approval for Lagevrio . Lagevrio was previously granted Special Approval for Emergency in Japan in December 2021. Given that the Company has fulfilled government purchase and supply commitments for Lagevrio , as well as the waning impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company expects sales of Lagevrio will decline in 2024. Worldwide combined sales of Isentress/Isentress HD , an HIV integrase inhibitor for use in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV-1 infection, declined 24% in 2023 primarily due to competitive pressure particularly in the U.S. and Europe. The patent that provided market exclusivity for Isentress/Isentress HD in 52 the EU expired in July 2023. Accordingly, the Company is experiencing sales declines of Isentress/Isentress HD in these markets as a result of generic competition and expects the declines to continue. Additionally, the Company anticipates competitive pressure and sales declines of Isentress/Isentress HD in the U.S. to continue. Immunology Simponi and Remicade are treatments for certain inflammatory diseases that the Company markets in Europe, Russia and Türkiye. The Company’s marketing rights with respect to these products will revert to Johnson & Johnson Innovative Medicine on October 1, 2024. Diabetes Worldwide combined sales of Januvia and Janumet , medicines that help lower blood sugar levels in adults with type 2 diabetes, declined 25% in 2023 primarily reflecting the ongoing impact of the loss of exclusivity in most markets in Europe and the Asia Pacific region, as well as in Canada, coupled with lower demand and lower pricing in the U.S. due to competitive pressures. While the key U.S. patent for Januvia and Janumet claiming the sitagliptin compound expired in January 2023, as a result of favorable court rulings and settlement agreements related to a later expiring patent directed to the specific sitagliptin salt form of the products (see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements), the Company expects that Januvia and Janumet will not lose market exclusivity in the U.S. until May 2026 and Janumet XR will not lose market exclusivity in the U.S. until July 2026, although a non-automatically substitutable form of sitagliptin that differs from the form in the Company’s sitagliptin products has been approved by the FDA. As a result of competitive pressures, the Company anticipates pricing and volume declines for Januvia and Janumet in the U.S. to continue in 2024 and thereafter. In August 2023, the U.S. Department of HHS, through the CMS, announced that Januvia will be included in the first year of the IRA’s Program. Pursuant to the IRA’s Program, discussions with the government occurred in 2023 and will continue in 2024, with government price-setting becoming effective on January 1, 2026. The Company has sued the U.S. government regarding the IRA’s Program (see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements). The Company lost market exclusivity for Januvia in all of the EU and for Janumet in some European countries in September 2022. Exclusivity for Janumet was lost in other European countries in April 2023. Accordingly, the Company is experiencing sales declines in these markets and expects the declines to continue. While the Company lost market exclusivity for Januvia in China in 2022 with the launch of a generic equivalent product and an additional generic equivalent product was launched in 2023, the impact to sales in 2023 was modest. Several generic equivalents of Janumet have been approved in China, and one launched in December 2023 via a settlement agreement with the Company. Combined sales of Januvia and Janumet in Europe, China and the U.S. represented 9%, 14% and 41%, respectively, of total combined Januvia and Janumet sales in 2023. In response to a request from a regulatory authority in 2022, Merck evaluated its sitagliptin-containing products for the presence of nitrosamines. Nitrosamines are organic compounds found at trace levels in water and food. Nitrosamines can also result from chemical reactions and can form in drugs either due to the drug’s manufacturing process, chemical structure, or the conditions in which the drugs are stored or packaged. The Company detected a nitrosamine identified as Nitroso-STG-19 (NTTP) in some batches of its sitagliptin-containing medicines. The Company has engaged with major health authorities around the world and has implemented additional quality controls to ensure its portfolio of sitagliptin-containing products meet health authorities’ interim acceptable NTTP limits for continuing distribution of product to the market. The Company has made significant progress in reducing the level of nitrosamines in its sitagliptin-containing medicines and is now consistently releasing product in major markets that is expected to comply with the health authorities’ long-term limit throughout product shelf-life. The Company does not anticipate product shortages at this time. 53 Animal Health Segment Sales of livestock products grew 1% in 2023 primarily due to higher pricing, as well as increased demand for poultry and swine products, partially offset by lower demand for ruminant products. Sales of companion animal products grew 2% in 2023 reflecting higher pricing, partially offset by lower demand. Sales of the Bravecto line of products were $1.1 billion in 2023, an increase of 4% compared with 2022, or 5% excluding the impact of foreign exchange. In January 2024, the EC approved an injectable formulation of Bravecto for dogs for the persistent killing of fleas and ticks for 12 months after treatment. In February 2024, Merck entered into a definitive agreement to acquire the aqua business of Elanco Animal Health Incorporated for $1.3 billion in cash. The acquisition is expected to be completed by mid-2024, subject to approvals from regulatory authorities and other customary closing conditions. The transaction will be accounted for as an acquisition of a business. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information related to this transaction. Costs, Expenses and Other * >100% Cost of Sales Cost of sales was $16.1 billion in 2023 and $17.4 billion in 2022. Cost of sales includes $852 million and $3.0 billion in 2023 and 2022, respectively, related to sales of Lagevrio , which is being developed in a collaboration with Ridgeback (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). Cost of sales also includes the amortization of intangible assets recorded in connection with acquisitions, collaborations, and licensing arrangements, which totaled $2.0 billion in both 2023 and 2022. Amortization expense in 2023 and 2022 includes $154 million and $250 million, respectively, of cumulative catch-up amortization related to Merck’s collaborations with Eisai and AstraZeneca, respectively (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). Also included in cost of sales are expenses associated with restructuring activities, which amounted to $211 million in 2023 and $205 million in 2022, primarily reflecting accelerated depreciation and asset write-offs related to the planned sale or closure of manufacturing facilities. Separation costs associated with manufacturing-related headcount reductions have been incurred and are reflected in Restructuring costs as discussed below. Gross margin was 73.2% in 2023 compared with 70.6% in 2022. The gross margin improvement primarily reflects the favorable impacts of product mix, including lower Lagevrio sales and lower revenue from third-party manufacturing arrangements (both of which have lower gross margins), and lower manufacturing-related costs, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses were $10.5 billion in 2023, an increase of 5% compared with 2022. The increase was primarily due to higher administrative costs, including compensation and benefits, and increased promotional spending and selling costs, partially offset by the favorable effect of foreign exchange and lower acquisition-related costs. 54 Research and Development Research and development (R&D) expenses were $30.5 billion in 2023 compared with $13.5 billion in 2022. The increase was primarily due to higher charges for business development activity in 2023, including charges of $10.2 billion for the acquisition of Prometheus, $5.5 billion related to the formation of a collaboration with Daiichi Sankyo and $1.2 billion for the acquisition of Imago, compared with charges of $690 million in aggregate recorded in 2022 related to collaboration and licensing agreements with Moderna, Orna Therapeutics and Orion. The increase in R&D expenses was also attributable to higher development spending, including for recently acquired programs, and higher compensation and benefit costs (reflecting in part increased headcount). The increase in R&D expenses was partially offset by lower intangible asset impairment charges in 2023. R&D expenses are comprised of the costs directly incurred by Merck Research Laboratories (MRL), the Company’s research and development division that focuses on human health-related activities, which were $9.0 billion in 2023 and $7.7 billion in 2022. Also included in R&D expenses are Animal Health research costs, upfront payments for collaboration and licensing agreements (including charges for the Daiichi Sankyo, Moderna, Orna and Orion transactions noted above), charges for transactions accounted for as asset acquisitions (including the charges for Prometheus and Imago noted above) and costs incurred by other divisions in support of R&D activities, including depreciation, production and general and administrative, which in the aggregate were $20.7 billion in 2023 and $4.1 billion in 2022. R&D expenses also include impairment charges of $779 million in 2023 (related to gefapixant) and $1.7 billion in 2022 (largely related to nemtabrutinib). See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information related to these impairment charges. The Company may recognize additional impairment charges in the future related to the cancellation or delay of other pipeline programs that were measured at fair value and capitalized in connection with business combinations and such charges could be material. Restructuring Costs In January 2024, the Company approved a new restructuring program (2024 Restructuring Program) intended to continue the optimization of the Company’s Human Health global manufacturing network as the future pipeline shifts to new modalities and also optimize the Animal Health global manufacturing network to improve supply reliability and increase efficiency. The actions contemplated under the 2024 Restructuring Program are expected to be substantially completed by the end of 2031, with the cumulative pretax costs to be incurred by the Company to implement the program estimated to be approximately $4.0 billion. Approximately 60% of the cumulative pretax costs will be non-cash, relating primarily to the accelerated depreciation of facilities to be closed or divested. The remainder of the costs will result in cash outlays, relating primarily to facility shut-down costs. The Company expects to record charges of approximately $750 million in 2024 related to the 2024 Restructuring Program. The Company anticipates the actions under the 2024 Restructuring Program will result in cumulative annual net cost savings of approximately $750 million by the end of 2031. In 2019, Merck approved a global restructuring program (2019 Restructuring Program) as part of a worldwide initiative focused on optimizing the Company’s manufacturing and supply network, as well as reducing its global real estate footprint. The actions under the 2019 Restructuring Program are substantially complete. Restructuring costs of $599 million in 2023 and $337 million in 2022 include separation and other costs associated with these restructuring activities. Separation costs incurred were associated with actual headcount reductions, as well as estimated expenses under existing severance programs for involuntary headcount reductions that were probable and could be reasonably estimated. Other expenses in Restructuring costs include facility shut-down and other related costs, as well as employee-related costs such as curtailment, settlement and termination charges associated with pension and other postretirement benefit plans and share-based compensation plan costs. For segment reporting, restructuring costs are unallocated expenses. Additional costs associated with the Company’s restructuring activities are included in Cost of sales , Selling, general and administrative expenses and Research and development costs. The Company recorded aggregate pretax costs related to restructuring program activities of $933 million in 2023 (of which $190 million related to the 2024 Restructuring Program) and $666 million in 2022. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for additional details. Other (Income) Expense, Net Other (income) expense, net, was $466 million of expense in 2023 compared with $1.5 billion of expense in 2022. The change was primarily due to net gains from investments in equity securities recorded in 2023, compared with net losses from investments in equity securities recorded in 2022, as well as lower pension settlement costs in 2023, partially offset by a $572.5 million charge in 2023 related to settlements with certain plaintiffs in the Zetia antitrust litigation (see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements) and higher foreign exchange losses. 55 For details on the components of Other (income) expense, net, see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. Pharmaceutical segment profits are comprised of segment sales less standard costs, as well as SG&A expenses directly incurred by the segment. Animal Health segment profits are comprised of segment sales, less all cost of sales, as well as SG&A and R&D expenses directly incurred by the segment. For internal management reporting presented to the chief operating decision maker, Merck does not allocate the remaining cost of sales not included in segment profits as described above, R&D expenses incurred by MRL, or general and administrative expenses not directly incurred by the segments, nor the cost of financing these activities. Separate divisions maintain responsibility for monitoring and managing these costs, including depreciation related to fixed assets utilized by these divisions and, therefore, they are not included in segment profits. Also excluded from the determination of segment profits are costs related to restructuring activities and acquisition- and divestiture-related costs, including the amortization of intangible assets and amortization of purchase accounting adjustments, intangible asset impairment charges, and expense or income related to changes in the estimated fair value measurement of liabilities for contingent consideration. Additionally, segment profits do not reflect other expenses from corporate and manufacturing cost centers and other miscellaneous income or expense. These unallocated items are reflected in “Other” in the above table. Also included in “Other” are miscellaneous corporate profits (losses), as well as operating profits (losses) related to third-party manufacturing arrangements. Pharmaceutical segment profits grew 6% in 2023 primarily due to higher sales, partially offset by higher administrative and promotional costs, as well as the unfavorable effect of foreign exchange. Animal Health segment profits declined 12% in 2023 reflecting higher production costs, higher inventory write-offs, increased administrative and promotional costs, as well as the unfavorable effect of foreign exchange. Taxes on Income The effective income tax rates from continuing operations were 80.0% in 2023 and 11.7% in 2022. The high tax rate from continuing operations in 2023 includes a 65.6 percentage point combined unfavorable impact of charges for the acquisitions of Prometheus and Imago (for which no tax benefits were recognized) and the Daiichi Sankyo collaboration. These charges reduced domestic pretax income by approximately $16.9 billion in 2023. In addition, the tax rate from continuing operations in 2023 reflects higher foreign taxes and the impact of the R&D capitalization provision of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) on the Company’s U.S. global intangible low-taxed income inclusion, partially offset by a favorable mix of income and expense, as well as higher foreign tax credits. The tax rate from continuing operations in 2022 reflects a favorable mix of income and expense. The tax rate from continuing operations in 2022 also reflects the favorable impact of net unrealized losses from investments in equity securities and intangible asset impairment charges, which were taxed at the U.S. tax rate; these items reduced domestic pretax income by approximately $2.9 billion in 2022. While many jurisdictions in which Merck operates have adopted the global minimum tax provision of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Pillar 2, effective for tax years beginning in January 2024, the Company anticipates there will be a minimal impact to its 2024 tax rate due to the accounting for the tax effects of intercompany transactions. The Company expects the impact of the global minimum tax will increase its tax rate to a greater extent in 2025 and thereafter. Also, in the event that the provision of the TCJA requiring capitalization and amortization of R&D expenses for tax purposes is repealed along the lines recently proposed in the Tax Relief for American Families and Workers Act of 2024, the Company will again be able to realize the benefit of U.S. R&D expenses as incurred, but expects no material impact to its effective income tax rate. 56 Non-GAAP Income and Non-GAAP EPS from Continuing Operations Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS are alternative views of the Company’s performance that Merck is providing because management believes this information enhances investors’ understanding of the Company’s results since management uses non-GAAP measures to assess performance. Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS exclude certain items because of the nature of these items and the impact that they have on the analysis of underlying business performance and trends. The excluded items (which should not be considered non-recurring) consist of acquisition- and divestiture-related costs, restructuring costs, income and losses from investments in equity securities, and certain other items. These excluded items are significant components in understanding and assessing financial performance. Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS are important internal measures for the Company. Senior management receives a monthly analysis of operating results that includes a non-GAAP EPS metric. Management uses non-GAAP measures internally for planning and forecasting purposes and to measure the performance of the Company along with other metrics. In addition, annual employee compensation, including senior management’s compensation, is derived in part using a non-GAAP pretax income metric. Since non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS are not measures determined in accordance with GAAP, they have no standardized meaning prescribed by GAAP and, therefore, may not be comparable to the calculation of similar measures of other companies. The information on non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for or superior to, net income and EPS prepared in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation between GAAP financial measures and non-GAAP financial measures (from continuing operations) is as follows: (1) Amounts in 2023, 2022 and 2021 include $792 million, $1.7 billion and $302 million, respectively, of intangible asset impairment charges. (2) The estimated tax impact on the excluded items is determined by applying the statutory rate of the originating territory of the non-GAAP adjustments. (3) GAAP and non-GAAP EPS were negatively affected in 2023, 2022 and 2021 by $6.21, $0.22, and $0.65, respectively, of charges for certain upfront and pre-approval milestone payments related to collaborations and licensing agreements, as well as charges related to pre-approval assets obtained in transactions accounted for as asset acquisitions. Acquisition- and Divestiture-Related Costs Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS exclude the impact of certain amounts recorded in connection with acquisitions and divestitures of businesses. These amounts include the amortization of intangible assets and amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to inventories, as well as intangible asset impairment charges, and 57 expense or income related to changes in the estimated fair value measurement of liabilities for contingent consideration. Also excluded are integration, transaction, and certain other costs associated with acquisitions and divestitures. Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS also exclude amortization of intangible assets related to collaborations and licensing arrangements. Restructuring Costs Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS exclude costs related to restructuring actions (see Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements). These amounts include employee separation costs and accelerated depreciation associated with facilities to be closed or divested. Accelerated depreciation costs represent the difference between the depreciation expense to be recognized over the revised useful life of the asset, based upon the anticipated date the site will be closed or divested or the equipment disposed of, and depreciation expense as determined utilizing the useful life prior to the restructuring actions. Restructuring costs also include asset abandonment, facility shut-down and other related costs, as well as employee-related costs such as curtailment, settlement and termination charges associated with pension and other postretirement benefit plans and share-based compensation costs. Income and Losses from Investments in Equity Securities Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS exclude realized and unrealized gains and losses from investments in equity securities either owned directly or through ownership interests in investment funds. Certain Other Items Non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS exclude certain other items. These items are adjusted for after evaluating them on an individual basis, considering their quantitative and qualitative aspects. Typically, these consist of items that are unusual in nature, significant to the results of a particular period or not indicative of future operating results. Excluded from non-GAAP income and non-GAAP EPS is a charge related to settlements with certain plaintiffs in the Zetia antitrust litigation (see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements), charges related to the discontinuation of COVID-19 development programs, as well as a net tax benefit related to the settlement of certain federal income tax matters (see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements). Research and Development Research Pipeline The Company currently has several candidates under regulatory review in the U.S. and internationally, as well as in late-stage clinical development. A chart reflecting the Company’s current research pipeline as of February 23, 2024 and related discussion is set forth in Item 1. “Business — Research and Development” above. Acquisitions, Research Collaborations and Licensing Agreements Merck continues to remain focused on pursuing opportunities that have the potential to drive both near- and long-term growth. Certain recent transactions are summarized below; additional details are included in Note 3 and Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. Merck actively monitors the landscape for growth opportunities that meet the Company’s strategic criteria. In January 2024, Merck entered into an agreement to acquire Harpoon Therapeutics, Inc. (Harpoon), a clinical-stage immunotherapy company developing a novel class of T-cell engagers designed to harness the power of the body’s immune system to treat patients suffering from cancer and other diseases. Under the terms of the agreement, Merck will acquire all outstanding shares of Harpoon for $23 per share in cash, for an approximate total equity value of $680 million. Harpoon’s lead candidate, HPN328, is a T-cell engager targeting delta-like ligand 3 (DLL3), an inhibitory canonical Notch ligand that is expressed at high levels in small-cell lung cancer and neuroendocrine tumors. HPN328 is currently being evaluated in a Phase 1/2 clinical trial as a monotherapy in patients with advanced cancers associated with expression of DLL3 and also in combination with atezolizumab in patients with certain types of small-cell lung cancer. Closing of the acquisition is expected in the first half of 2024, but is subject to certain conditions, including approval of the merger by Harpoon’s stockholders, the expiration of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act, and other customary conditions. If the proposed transaction closes, the Company anticipates it will be accounted for as an acquisition of an asset. The Company expects to record a charge of approximately $650 million to Research and development expenses upon closing, or approximately $0.26 per share. In October 2023, Merck and Daiichi Sankyo entered into a global development and commercialization agreement for three of Daiichi Sankyo’s deruxtecan (DXd) ADC candidates: patritumab deruxtecan (HER3-DXd) (MK-1022), ifinatamab deruxtecan (I-DXd) (MK-2400) and raludotatug deruxtecan (R-DXd) (MK-5909). All three potentially first-in-class DXd ADCs are in various stages of clinical development for the treatment of multiple solid tumors both as monotherapy and/or in combination with other treatments. The companies will jointly develop and 58 potentially commercialize these ADC candidates worldwide, except in Japan where Daiichi Sankyo will maintain exclusive rights. Daiichi Sankyo will be solely responsible for manufacturing and supply. Under the terms of the agreement, Merck made upfront payments of $4.0 billion and will make two one-time continuation payments of $750 million each to Daiichi Sankyo. Additionally, Daiichi Sankyo is eligible to receive future contingent sales-based milestone payments. Merck recorded an aggregate pretax charge of $5.5 billion to Research and development expenses, or $1.69 per share, in 2023 related to the transaction. In June 2023, Merck acquired Prometheus, a clinical-stage biotechnology company pioneering a precision medicine approach for the discovery, development, and commercialization of novel therapeutic and companion diagnostic products for the treatment of immune-mediated diseases. Total consideration paid of $11.0 billion included $1.2 billion of costs to settle share-based equity awards (including $700 million to settle unvested equity awards). Prometheus’ lead candidate, tulisokibart, MK-7240 (formerly PRA023), is a humanized monoclonal antibody directed to tumor necrosis factor-like ligand 1A, a target associated with both intestinal inflammation and fibrosis. Tulisokibart is being developed for the treatment of immune-mediated diseases including ulcerative colitis, Crohn’s disease, and other autoimmune conditions. A Phase 3 clinical trial evaluating tulisokibart for ulcerative colitis commenced in 2023. The transaction was accounted for as an acquisition of an asset. Merck recorded net assets of $877 million, as well as a charge of $10.2 billion to Research and development expenses, or $4.00 per share, in 2023 related to the transaction. There are no future contingent payments associated with the acquisition. In February 2023, Merck and Kelun-Biotech closed a license and collaboration agreement expanding their relationship in which Merck gained exclusive rights for the research, development, manufacture and commercialization of up to seven investigational preclinical ADCs for the treatment of cancer. Kelun-Biotech retained the right to research, develop, manufacture and commercialize certain licensed and option ADCs for Chinese mainland, Hong Kong and Macau. Merck made an upfront payment of $175 million, which was recorded in Research and development expenses in 2023. In October 2023, Merck notified Kelun-Biotech it was terminating two of the seven candidates under the agreement. Kelun-Biotech remains eligible to receive future contingent milestone payments and tiered royalties on future net sales for any commercialized ADC product. Also, in connection with the agreement, Merck invested $100 million in Kelun-Biotech shares in January 2023. In January 2023, Merck acquired Imago, a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company developing new medicines for the treatment of myeloproliferative neoplasms and other bone marrow diseases, for $1.35 billion (including payments to settle share-based equity awards) and also incurred approximately $60 million of transaction costs. Imago’s lead candidate bomedemstat, MK-3543 (formerly IMG-7289), is an investigational orally available lysine-specific demethylase 1 inhibitor currently being evaluated in multiple clinical trials for the treatment of essential thrombocythemia, myelofibrosis, and polycythemia vera, in addition to other indications. A Phase 3 clinical trial evaluating bomedemstat for the treatment of certain patients with essential thrombocythemia is underway. The transaction was accounted for as an acquisition of an asset. Merck recorded net assets of $219 million, as well as a charge of $1.2 billion to Research and development expenses in 2023 related to the transaction. There are no future contingent payments associated with the acquisition. Acquired In-Process Research and Development In connection with business combinations, the Company records the fair value of in-process research projects which, at the time of acquisition, had not yet reached technological feasibility. At December 31, 2023, the balance of in-process research and development (IPR&D) was $6.8 billion, primarily consisting of MK-7962 (sotatercept), $6.4 billion and MK-1026 (nemtabrutinib), $418 million. Sotatercept is under review in the U.S. and the EU. Nemtabrutinib is in Phase 3 clinical development. The IPR&D projects that remain in development are subject to the inherent risks and uncertainties in drug development and it is possible that the Company will not be able to successfully develop and complete the IPR&D programs and profitably commercialize the underlying product candidates. The time periods to receive approvals from the FDA and other regulatory agencies are subject to uncertainty. Significant delays in the approval process, or the Company’s failure to obtain approval at all, would delay or prevent the Company from realizing revenues from these products. Additionally, if the IPR&D programs require additional clinical trial data than previously anticipated, or if the programs fail or are abandoned during development, then the Company will not recover the fair value of the IPR&D recorded as an asset as of the acquisition date. If such circumstances were to occur, the Company’s future operating results could be adversely affected and the Company may recognize impairment charges, which could be material. In 2023, 2022, and 2021 the Company recorded IPR&D impairment charges within Research and development expenses of $779 million, $1.6 billion and $275 million, respectively (see Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements). 59 Additional research and development will be required before any of the remaining programs reach technological feasibility. The costs to complete the research projects will depend on whether the projects are brought to their final stages of development and are ultimately submitted to the FDA or other regulatory agencies for approval. Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures were $3.9 billion in 2023, $4.4 billion in 2022 and $4.4 billion in 2021. Expenditures in the U.S. were $2.5 billion in 2023, $2.7 billion in 2022 and $2.8 billion in 2021. The Company invested more than $19 billion in capital expenditures from 2018-2022, more than half of which related to expenditures in the U.S. The Company plans to invest approximately $18 billion in capital projects from 2023-2027, more than $10 billion of which relates to investments in the U.S., including expanding manufacturing capacity for oncology, vaccine and animal health products. Depreciation expense was $1.8 billion in 2023, $1.8 billion in 2022 and $1.6 billion in 2021, of which $1.2 billion in 2023, $1.3 billion in 2022 and $1.1 billion in 2021, related to locations in the U.S. Total depreciation expense in 2023, 2022 and 2021 included accelerated depreciation of $140 million, $120 million and $91 million, respectively, associated with restructuring activities (see Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements). Analysis of Liquidity and Capital Resources Merck’s strong financial profile enables it to fund research and development, finance acquisitions and external alliances, support in-line products and maximize upcoming launches while providing significant cash returns to shareholders. The decline in working capital in 2023 compared with 2022 primarily reflects the use of cash and investments to fund business development activity, partially offset by strong operating performance and cash proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt. Cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations was $13.0 billion in 2023 compared with $19.1 billion in 2022. Cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations was reduced by upfront, milestone and option payments related to certain collaborations of $4.2 billion in 2023 (including payments related to the formation of a collaboration with Daiichi Sankyo) compared with $2.0 billion in 2022. Cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations in 2023 was also reduced by payment of $572.5 million for the previously disclosed Zetia antitrust settlement. Cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations continues to be the Company’s primary source of funds to finance operating needs, with excess cash serving as the primary source of funds to finance business development transactions, capital expenditures, dividends paid to shareholders and treasury stock purchases. The mandatory change in R&D capitalization rules that became effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2021 (related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA)), increased the amount of taxes the Company pays in the U.S. beginning in 2022. Cash used in investing activities of continuing operations was $14.1 billion in 2023 compared with $5.0 billion in 2022. The higher use of cash in investing activities of continuing operations was primarily due to the acquisitions of Prometheus and Imago, partially offset by higher proceeds from sales of securities and other investments, including proceeds from the sale of Seagen Inc. common stock, lower capital expenditures and lower purchases of securities and other investments. Cash used in financing activities of continuing operations was $4.8 billion in 2023 compared with $9.1 billion in 2022. The lower use of cash in financing activities from continuing operations was primarily due to proceeds from the issuance debt (see below) and lower payments on long-term debt (see below), partially offset by treasury stock purchases, higher dividends paid to shareholders and lower proceeds from the exercise of stock options. In May 2023, the Company issued $6.0 billion principal amount of senior unsecured notes. The Company used a portion of the $5.9 billion net proceeds from this offering to fund a portion of the cash consideration paid for the acquisition of Prometheus, including related fees and expenses, and used the remaining net proceeds for general corporate purposes including to repay commercial paper borrowings and other indebtedness with upcoming maturities. 60 In December 2021, the Company issued $8.0 billion principal amount of senior unsecured notes. Merck used a portion the net proceeds from the offering for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of outstanding commercial paper borrowings (including commercial paper borrowings in connection with Merck’s acquisition of Acceleron), and other indebtedness, and also used an allocated amount to finance or refinance, in whole or in part, projects and partnerships in the Company’s priority environmental, social and governance (ESG) areas. In May 2023, the Company’s $1.75 billion, 2.80% notes matured in accordance with their terms and were repaid. In 2022, the Company’s $1.25 billion, 2.35% notes and the Company’s $1.0 billion, 2.40% notes matured in accordance with their terms and were repaid. In 2021, the Company’s $1.15 billion, 3.875% notes and the Company’s €1.0 billion, 1.125% notes matured in accordance with their terms and were repaid. The Company has a $6.0 billion credit facility that matures in May 2028. The facility provides backup liquidity for the Company’s commercial paper borrowing facility and is to be used for general corporate purposes. The Company has not drawn funding from this facility. In March 2021, the Company filed a securities registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the automatic shelf registration process available to “well-known seasoned issuers” which is effective for three years. Effective as of November 3, 2009, the Company executed a full and unconditional guarantee of the then existing debt of its subsidiary Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp. (MSD) and MSD executed a full and unconditional guarantee of the then existing debt of the Company (excluding commercial paper), including for payments of principal and interest. These guarantees do not extend to debt issued subsequent to that date. In November 2023, Merck’s Board of Directors increased the quarterly dividend, declaring a quarterly dividend of $0.77 per share on the Company’s outstanding common stock for the first quarter of 2024 that was paid in January 2024. In January 2024, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.77 per share on the Company’s outstanding common stock for the second quarter of 2024 payable in April 2024. In 2018, Merck’s Board of Directors authorized purchases of up to $10 billion of Merck’s common stock for its treasury. The treasury stock purchase authorization has no time limit and will be made over time in open-market transactions, block transactions on or off an exchange, or in privately negotiated transactions. In 2023, the Company purchased $1.3 billion (approximately 13 million shares) of its common stock for its treasury under this program. As of December 31, 2023, the Company’s remaining share repurchase authorization was $3.7 billion. The Company did not purchase any shares of its common stock under this program in 2022. The Company purchased $840 million of its common stock during 2021 under the authorized share repurchase program. The Company believes it maintains a conservative financial profile. The Company places its cash and investments in instruments that meet high credit quality standards, as specified in its investment policy guidelines. These guidelines also limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. The Company does not participate in any off-balance sheet arrangements involving unconsolidated subsidiaries that provide financing or potentially expose the Company to unrecorded financial obligations. The Company expects foreseeable liquidity and capital resource requirements to be met through existing cash and cash equivalents and anticipated cash flows from operations, as well as commercial paper borrowings and long-term borrowings if needed. Merck believes that its sources of financing will be adequate to meet its future requirements. The Company’s material cash requirements arising in the normal course of business primarily include: Debt Obligations and Interest Payments — See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further detail of the Company’s debt obligations and the timing of expected future principal and interest payments. Tax Liabilities — In connection with the enactment of the TCJA, the Company is required to pay a one-time transition tax, which the Company has elected to pay over a period of eight years through 2025 as permitted under the TCJA. Additionally, the Company has liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, including interest and penalties. See Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for further information pertaining to the transition tax and liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits. Operating Leases — See Note 10 to consolidated financial statements for further details of the Company’s lease obligations and the timing of expected future lease payments. Collaboration-Related Payments — The Company has accrued liabilities for contingent sales-based milestone payments related to collaborations with AstraZeneca and Eisai where payment has been deemed probable by the Company but remains subject to the achievement of the related sales-based milestone. Additionally, the 61 Company has accrued liabilities for future continuation payments related to a collaboration with Daiichi Sankyo. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information related to these future payments. Purchase Obligations — Purchase obligations are enforceable and legally binding obligations for purchases of goods and services including minimum inventory contracts, research and development and advertising. Purchase obligations also include future inventory purchases the Company has committed to in connection with certain divestitures. As of December 31, 2023, the Company had total purchase obligations of $5.8 billion, of which $2.0 billion is estimated to be payable in 2024. Financial Instruments Market Risk Disclosures The Company manages the impact of foreign exchange rate movements and interest rate movements on its earnings, cash flows and fair values of assets and liabilities through operational means and through the use of various financial instruments, including derivative instruments. A significant portion of the Company’s revenues and earnings in foreign affiliates is exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. The objectives of and accounting related to the Company’s foreign currency risk management program, as well as its interest rate risk management activities are discussed below. Foreign Currency Risk Management The Company has established revenue hedging, balance sheet risk management, and net investment hedging programs to protect against volatility of future foreign currency cash flows and changes in fair value caused by changes in foreign exchange rates. The objective of the revenue hedging program is to reduce the variability caused by changes in foreign exchange rates that would affect the U.S. dollar value of future cash flows derived from foreign currency denominated sales, primarily the euro, Japanese yen and Chinese renminbi. To achieve this objective, the Company will hedge a portion of its forecasted foreign currency denominated third-party and intercompany distributor entity sales (forecasted sales) that are expected to occur over its planning cycle, typically no more than two years into the future. The Company will layer in hedges over time, increasing the portion of forecasted sales hedged as it gets closer to the expected date of the forecasted sales. The portion of forecasted sales hedged is based on assessments of cost-benefit profiles that consider natural offsetting exposures, revenue and exchange rate volatilities and correlations, and the cost of hedging instruments. The Company manages its anticipated transaction exposure principally with purchased local currency put options, forward contracts, and purchased collar options. The fair values of these derivative contracts are recorded as either assets (gain positions) or liabilities (loss positions) in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Changes in the fair value of derivative contracts are recorded each period in either current earnings or Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) ( OCI) , depending on whether the derivative is designated as part of a hedge transaction and, if so, the type of hedge transaction. For derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges, the unrealized gains or losses on these contracts are recorded in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss ( AOCL) and reclassified into Sales when the hedged anticipated revenue is recognized. For those derivatives which are not designated as cash flow hedges, but serve as economic hedges of forecasted sales, unrealized gains or losses are recorded in Sales each period. The cash flows from both designated and non-designated contracts are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The Company does not enter into derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. Because Merck principally sells foreign currency in its revenue hedging program, a uniform weakening of the U.S. dollar would yield the largest overall potential loss in the market value of these hedge instruments. The market value of Merck’s hedges would have declined by an estimated $754 million and $647 million at December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, from a uniform 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar. The market value was determined using a foreign exchange option pricing model and holding all factors except exchange rates constant. Although not predictive in nature, the Company believes that a 10% threshold reflects reasonably possible near-term changes in Merck’s major foreign currency exposures relative to the U.S. dollar. The Company manages operating activities and net asset positions at each local subsidiary in order to mitigate the effects of exchange on monetary assets and liabilities. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of a given subsidiary are remeasured at spot rates in effect on the balance sheet date with the effects of changes in spot rates reported in Other (income) expense, net . The Company also uses a balance sheet risk management program to mitigate the exposure of such assets and liabilities from the effects of volatility in foreign exchange. Merck principally utilizes forward exchange contracts to offset the effects of exchange on exposures when it is deemed economical to do so based on a cost-benefit analysis that considers the magnitude of the exposure, the volatility of the exchange rate and the cost of the hedging instrument (primarily the euro, Swiss franc, Japanese yen, and Chinese renminbi). The forward contracts are not designated as hedges and are marked to market through Other (income) expense, net . Accordingly, fair value changes in the forward contracts 62 help mitigate the changes in the value of the remeasured assets and liabilities attributable to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, except to the extent of the spot-forward differences. These differences are not significant due to the short-term nature of the contracts, which typically have average maturities at inception of less than six months. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. A sensitivity analysis to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar on foreign currency denominated derivatives, investments and monetary assets and liabilities indicated that if the U.S. dollar uniformly weakened by 10% against all currency exposures of the Company at December 31, 2023 and 2022, Income from Continuing Operations Before Taxes would have declined by approximately $221 million and $190 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. Because the Company was in a net short (payable) position relative to its major foreign currencies after consideration of forward contracts, a uniform weakening of the U.S. dollar will yield the largest overall potential net loss in earnings due to exchange. This measurement assumes that a change in one foreign currency relative to the U.S. dollar would not affect other foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Although not predictive in nature, the Company believes that a 10% threshold reflects reasonably possible near-term changes in Merck’s major foreign currency exposures relative to the U.S. dollar. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The Company also uses forward exchange contracts to hedge a portion of its net investment in foreign operations against movements in exchange rates. The forward contracts are designated as hedges of the net investment in a foreign operation. The unrealized gains or losses on these contracts are recorded in foreign currency translation adjustment within OCI and remain in AOCL until either the sale or complete or substantially complete liquidation of the subsidiary. The Company excludes certain portions of the change in fair value of its derivative instruments from the assessment of hedge effectiveness (excluded components). Changes in fair value of the excluded components are recognized in OCI . The Company recognizes in earnings the initial value of the excluded components on a straight-line basis over the life of the derivative instrument, rather than using the mark-to-market approach. The cash flows from these contracts are reported as investing activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Foreign exchange risk is also managed through the use of foreign currency debt. The Company’s senior unsecured euro-denominated notes have been designated as, and are effective as, economic hedges of the net investment in a foreign operation. Accordingly, foreign currency transaction gains or losses due to spot rate fluctuations on the euro-denominated debt instruments are included in foreign currency translation adjustment within OCI . Interest Rate Risk Management The Company may use interest rate swap contracts on certain investing and borrowing transactions to manage its net exposure to interest rate changes and to reduce its overall cost of borrowing. The Company does not use leveraged swaps and, in general, does not leverage any of its investment activities that would put principal at risk. At December 31, 2023, the Company was a party to four pay-floating, receive-fixed interest rate swap contracts designated as fair value hedges of a portion of fixed-rate notes as detailed in the table below. The Company’s investment portfolio includes cash equivalents and short-term investments, the market values of which are not significantly affected by changes in interest rates. The market value of the Company’s medium- to long-term fixed-rate investments is modestly affected by changes in U.S. interest rates. Changes in medium- to long-term U.S. interest rates have a more significant impact on the market value of the Company’s fixed-rate borrowings, which generally have longer maturities. A sensitivity analysis to measure potential changes in the market value of Merck’s investments and debt from a change in interest rates indicated that a one percentage point increase in interest rates at December 31, 2023 and 2022 would have positively affected the net aggregate market value of these instruments by $2.5 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively. A one percentage point decrease at December 31, 2023 and 2022 would have negatively affected the net aggregate market value by $3.0 billion and $2.4 billion, respectively. The fair value of Merck’s debt was determined using pricing models reflecting one percentage point shifts in the appropriate yield curves. The fair values of Merck’s investments were determined using a combination of pricing and duration models. 63 Critical Accounting Estimates The Company’s consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with GAAP and, accordingly, include certain amounts that are based on management’s best estimates and judgments. Estimates are used when accounting for amounts recorded in connection with acquisitions, including initial fair value determinations of assets and liabilities in a business combination (primarily IPR&D, other intangible assets and contingent consideration), as well as subsequent fair value measurements. Additionally, estimates are used in determining such items as provisions for sales discounts, rebates and returns, depreciable and amortizable lives, recoverability of inventories, including those produced in preparation for product launches, amounts recorded for contingencies, environmental liabilities, accruals for contingent sales-based milestone payments and other reserves, pension and other postretirement benefit plan assumptions, share-based compensation assumptions, restructuring costs, impairments of long-lived assets (including intangible assets and goodwill) and investments, and taxes on income. Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these estimates. Application of the following accounting policies result in accounting estimates having the potential for the most significant impact on the financial statements. Acquisitions and Dispositions To determine whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions (or disposals) of assets or businesses, the Company makes certain judgments, which include assessment of the inputs, processes, and outputs associated with the acquired set of activities. If the Company determines that substantially all of the fair value of gross assets included in a transaction is concentrated in a single asset (or a group of similar assets), the assets would not represent a business. To be considered a business, the assets in a transaction need to include an input and a substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create outputs. In a business combination, the acquisition method of accounting requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded as of the date of the acquisition at their respective fair values with limited exceptions. The fair values of intangible assets are determined utilizing information available near the acquisition date based on expectations and assumptions that are deemed reasonable by management. Given the considerable judgment involved in determining fair values, the Company typically obtains assistance from third-party valuation specialists for significant items. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination that arise from contingencies are generally recognized at fair value. If fair value cannot be determined, the asset or liability is recognized if probable and reasonably estimable; if these criteria are not met, no asset or liability is recognized. Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. Accordingly, the Company may be required to value assets at fair value measures that do not reflect the Company’s intended use of those assets. Any excess of the purchase price (consideration transferred) over the estimated fair values of net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Transaction costs and costs to restructure the acquired company are expensed as incurred. The operating results of the acquired business are reflected in the Company’s consolidated financial statements after the date of the acquisition. The judgments made in determining estimated fair values assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination, as well as asset lives, can materially affect the Company’s results of operations. The fair values of identifiable intangible assets related to currently marketed products are primarily determined by using an income approach through which fair value is estimated based on each asset’s discounted projected net cash flows. The Company’s estimates of market participant net cash flows consider historical and projected pricing, margins and expense levels; the performance of competing products where applicable; relevant industry and therapeutic area growth drivers and factors; current and expected trends in technology and product life cycles; the time and investment that will be required to develop products and technologies; the ability to obtain additional marketing and regulatory approvals; the ability to manufacture and commercialize the products; the extent and timing of potential new product introductions by the Company’s competitors; and the life of each asset’s underlying patent and related patent term extension, if any. The net cash flows are then probability-adjusted where appropriate to consider the uncertainties associated with the underlying assumptions, as well as the risk profile of the net cash flows utilized in the valuation. The probability-adjusted future net cash flows of each product are then discounted to present value utilizing an appropriate discount rate. The fair values of identifiable intangible assets related to IPR&D are also determined using an income approach, through which fair value is estimated based on each asset’s probability-adjusted future net cash flows, which reflect the different stages of development of each product and the associated probability of successful completion. The net cash flows are then discounted to present value using an appropriate discount rate. Amounts allocated to acquired IPR&D are capitalized and accounted for as indefinite-lived intangible assets, subject to impairment testing until completion or abandonment of the projects. Upon successful completion of each IPR&D 64 project, Merck will make a determination as to the then-useful life of the intangible asset, generally determined by the period in which the substantial majority of the cash flows are expected to be generated, and begin amortization. Certain of the Company’s business combinations involve the potential for future payment of consideration that is contingent upon the achievement of performance milestones, including product development milestones and royalty payments on future product sales. The fair value of contingent consideration liabilities is determined at the acquisition date using unobservable inputs. These inputs include the estimated amount and timing of projected cash flows, the probability of success (achievement of the contingent event) and the risk-adjusted discount rate used to present value the probability-weighted cash flows. Subsequent to the acquisition date, at each reporting period until the contingency is resolved, the contingent consideration liability is remeasured at current fair value with changes (either expense or income) recorded in earnings. Changes in any of the inputs may result in a significantly different fair value adjustment. If the Company determines the transaction will not be accounted for as an acquisition of a business, the transaction will be accounted for as an asset acquisition rather than a business combination and, therefore, no goodwill will be recorded. In an asset acquisition, acquired IPR&D with no alternative future use is charged to expense and contingent consideration is not recognized at the acquisition date. Contingent Sales-Based Milestones The terms of certain collaborative arrangements require the Company to make payments contingent upon the achievement of sales-based milestones. Sales-based milestones payable by Merck to collaborative partners are accrued and capitalized, subject to cumulative amortization catch-up, when determined to be probable of being achieved by the Company based on future sales forecasts. The amortization catch-up is calculated either from the time of the first regulatory approval for indications that were unapproved at the time the collaboration was formed, or from the time of the formation of the collaboration for approved products. The related intangible asset that is recognized is amortized over its remaining useful life, subject to impairment testing. Revenue Recognition Recognition of revenue requires evidence of a contract, probable collection of sales proceeds and completion of substantially all performance obligations. Merck acts as the principal in substantially all of its customer arrangements and therefore records revenue on a gross basis. The majority of the Company’s contracts related to the Pharmaceutical and Animal Health segments have a single performance obligation - the promise to transfer goods. Shipping is considered immaterial in the context of the overall customer arrangement and damages or loss of goods in transit are rare. Therefore, shipping is not deemed a separately recognized performance obligation. The vast majority of revenues from sales of products are recognized at a point in time when control of the goods is transferred to the customer, which the Company has determined is when title and risks and rewards of ownership transfer to the customer and the Company is entitled to payment. For certain services in the Animal Health segment, revenue is recognized over time, generally ratably over the contract term as services are provided. These service revenues are not material. The nature of the Company’s business gives rise to several types of variable consideration including discounts and returns, which are estimated at the time of sale generally using the expected value method, although the most likely amount method is used for prompt pay discounts. In the U.S., sales discounts are issued to customers at the point-of-sale, through an intermediary wholesaler (known as chargebacks), or in the form of rebates. Additionally, sales are generally made with a limited right of return under certain conditions. Revenues are recorded net of provisions for sales discounts and returns, which are established at the time of sale. In addition, if collection of accounts receivable is expected to be in excess of one year, sales are recorded net of time value of money discounts, which have not been material. The U.S. provision for aggregate customer discounts covers chargebacks and rebates. Chargebacks are discounts that occur when a contracted customer purchases through an intermediary wholesaler. The wholesaler then charges the Company back for the difference between the price initially paid by the wholesaler and the contract price agreed to between Merck and the customer. The provision for chargebacks is based on expected sell-through levels by the Company’s wholesale customers to contracted customers, as well as estimated wholesaler inventory levels. Rebates are amounts owed based upon definitive contractual agreements or legal requirements with private sector and public sector (Medicaid and Medicare Part D) benefit providers after the final dispensing of the product to a benefit plan participant. The provision for rebates is based on expected patient usage, as well as inventory levels in the distribution channel to determine the contractual obligation to the benefit providers. The Company uses historical customer segment utilization mix, sales forecasts, changes to product mix and price, inventory levels in the distribution channel, government pricing calculations and prior payment history in order to estimate the expected 65 provision. Amounts accrued for aggregate customer discounts are evaluated on a quarterly basis through comparison of information provided by the wholesalers, health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit managers, federal and state agencies, and other customers to the amounts accrued. Merck remains committed to the 340B Program and to providing 340B discounts to eligible covered entities. See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding 340B legal proceedings. Summarized information about changes in the aggregate customer discount accrual related to U.S. sales is as follows: Accruals for chargebacks are reflected as a direct reduction to accounts receivable and accruals for rebates as current liabilities. The accrued balances relative to these provisions included in Accounts receivable and Accrued and other current liabilities were $188 million and $2.3 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2023 and were $178 million and $2.7 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2022. Outside of the U.S., variable consideration in the form of discounts and rebates are a combination of commercially-driven discounts in highly competitive product classes, discounts required to gain or maintain reimbursement, or legislatively mandated rebates. In certain European countries, legislatively mandated rebates are calculated based on an estimate of the government’s total unbudgeted spending and the Company’s specific payback obligation. Rebates may also be required based on specific product sales thresholds. The Company applies an estimated factor against its actual invoiced sales to represent the expected level of future discount or rebate obligations associated with the sale. The Company maintains a returns policy that allows its U.S. pharmaceutical customers to return product within a specified period prior to and subsequent to the expiration date (generally, three to six months before and 12 months after product expiration). The estimate of the provision for returns is based upon historical experience with actual returns. Additionally, the Company considers factors such as levels of inventory in the distribution channel, product dating and expiration period, whether products have been discontinued, entrance in the market of generic or other competition, changes in formularies or launch of over-the-counter products, among others. The product returns provision for U.S. pharmaceutical sales as a percentage of U.S. net pharmaceutical sales was 1.0% in 2023, 1.1% in 2022 and 0.9% in 2021. Outside of the U.S., returns are only allowed in certain countries on a limited basis. Merck’s payment terms for U.S. pharmaceutical customers are typically 36 days from receipt of invoice and for U.S. animal health customers are typically 30 days from receipt of invoice; however, certain products have longer payment terms, including Keytruda , which has payment terms of 90 days. Payment terms for vaccines sales in the U.S. typically range from 30 to 60 days. Outside of the U.S., payment terms are typically 30 days to 90 days, although certain markets have longer payment terms. Through its distribution programs with U.S. wholesalers, the Company encourages wholesalers to align purchases with underlying demand and maintain inventories below specified levels. The terms of the programs allow the wholesalers to earn fees upon providing visibility into their inventory levels, as well as by achieving certain performance parameters such as inventory management, customer service levels, reducing shortage claims and reducing product returns. Information provided through the wholesaler distribution programs includes items such as sales trends, inventory on-hand, on-order quantity and product returns. Inventories Produced in Preparation for Product Launches The Company capitalizes inventories produced in preparation for product launches sufficient to support estimated initial market demand. Typically, capitalization of such inventory does not begin until regulatory approval is considered by the Company to be probable. The Company monitors the status of each respective product during the research and regulatory approval process. If the Company is aware of any specific risks or contingencies other than the normal regulatory approval process or if there are any specific issues identified during the research process relating to safety, efficacy, manufacturing, marketing or labeling, the related inventory would generally not be capitalized. Expiry dates of the inventory are affected by the stage of completion. The Company manages the levels of inventory at each stage to optimize the shelf life of the inventory in relation to anticipated market demand in order to avoid product expiry issues. For inventories that are capitalized, anticipated future sales and shelf lives support the 66 realization of the inventory value as the inventory shelf life is sufficient to meet initial product launch requirements. Inventories produced in preparation for product launches capitalized at December 31, 2023 and 2022 were $790 million and $516 million, respectively. Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities The Company is involved in various claims and legal proceedings of a nature considered normal to its business, including product liability, intellectual property and commercial litigation, as well as certain additional matters including governmental and environmental matters (see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements). The Company records accruals for contingencies when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. These accruals are adjusted periodically as assessments change or additional information becomes available. For product liability claims, a portion of the overall accrual is actuarially determined and considers such factors as past experience, number of claims reported and estimates of claims incurred but not yet reported. Individually significant contingent losses are accrued when probable and reasonably estimable. Legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with a loss contingency are accrued when probable and reasonably estimable. Some of the significant factors considered in the review of these legal defense reserves are as follows: the actual costs incurred by the Company; the development of the Company’s legal defense strategy and structure in light of the scope of its litigation; the number of cases being brought against the Company; the costs and outcomes of completed trials and the most current information regarding anticipated timing, progression, and related costs of pre-trial activities and trials in the associated litigation. The amount of legal defense reserves as of December 31, 2023 and 2022 of approximately $210 million and $230 million, respectively, represents the Company’s best estimate of the minimum amount of defense costs to be incurred in connection with its outstanding litigation; however, events such as additional trials and other events that could arise in the course of its litigation could affect the ultimate amount of legal defense costs to be incurred by the Company. The Company will continue to monitor its legal defense costs and review the adequacy of the associated reserves and may determine to increase the reserves at any time in the future if, based upon the factors set forth, it believes it would be appropriate to do so. The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to a number of proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund, and other federal and state equivalents. When a legitimate claim for contribution is asserted, a liability is initially accrued based upon the estimated transaction costs to manage the site. Accruals are adjusted as site investigations, feasibility studies and related cost assessments of remedial techniques are completed, and as the extent to which other potentially responsible parties who may be jointly and severally liable can be expected to contribute is determined. The Company is also remediating environmental contamination resulting from past industrial activity at certain of its sites and takes an active role in identifying and accruing for these costs. In the past, Merck performed a worldwide survey to assess all sites for potential contamination resulting from past industrial activities. Where assessment indicated that physical investigation was warranted, such investigation was performed, providing a better evaluation of the need for remedial action. Where such need was identified, remedial action was then initiated. As definitive information became available during the course of investigations and/or remedial efforts at each site, estimates were refined and accruals were established or adjusted accordingly. These estimates and related accruals continue to be refined annually. The Company believes that there are no compliance issues associated with applicable environmental laws and regulations that would have a material adverse effect on the Company. Expenditures for remediation and environmental liabilities were $6 million in 2023 and are estimated to be $27 million in the aggregate for the years 2024 through 2028. In management’s opinion, the liabilities for all environmental matters that are probable and reasonably estimable have been accrued and totaled $42 million and $39 million at December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. These liabilities are undiscounted, do not consider potential recoveries from other parties and will be paid out over the periods of remediation for the applicable sites, which are expected to occur primarily over the next 15 years. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these matters, or the ultimate costs of remediation, management does not believe that any reasonably possible expenditures that may be incurred in excess of the liabilities accrued should exceed approximately $40 million in the aggregate. Management also does not believe that these expenditures should result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity for any year. 67 Share-Based Compensation The Company expenses all share-based payment awards to employees, including grants of stock options, over the requisite service period based on the grant date fair value of the awards. The Company determines the fair value of certain share-based awards using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model which uses both historical and current market data to estimate the fair value. This method incorporates various assumptions such as the risk-free interest rate, expected volatility, expected dividend yield and expected life of the options. Total pretax share-based compensation expense from continuing operations was $645 million in 2023, $541 million in 2022 and $479 million in 2021. At December 31, 2023, there was $990 million of total pretax unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested stock option, restricted stock unit and performance share unit awards which will be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.9 years. For segment reporting, share-based compensation costs are unallocated expenses. Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans Net periodic benefit cost for pension plans totaled $126 million in 2023, $554 million in 2022 and $748 million in 2021. Net periodic benefit credit for other postretirement benefit plans was $61 million in 2023, $93 million in 2022 and $83 million in 2021. Pension and other postretirement benefit plan information for financial reporting purposes is calculated using actuarial assumptions including a discount rate for plan benefit obligations and an expected rate of return on plan assets. The changes in net periodic benefit cost year over year for pension plans are primarily attributable to lower settlement charges incurred by certain plans in 2023 compared with 2022 and 2021, as well as changes in expected returns and the discount rates. The Company reassesses its benefit plan assumptions on a regular basis. For both the pension and other postretirement benefit plans, the discount rate is evaluated on measurement dates and modified to reflect the prevailing market rate of a portfolio of high-quality fixed-income debt instruments that would provide the future cash flows needed to pay the benefits included in the benefit obligation as they come due. The discount rates for the Company’s U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans ranged from 5.25% to 5.45% at December 31, 2023, compared with a range of 5.50% to 5.90% at December 31, 2022. The expected rate of return for both the pension and other postretirement benefit plans represents the average rate of return to be earned on plan assets over the period the benefits included in the benefit obligation are to be paid. In developing the expected rate of return, the Company considers long-term compound annualized returns of historical market data, current market conditions and actual returns on the Company’s plan assets. Using this reference information, the Company develops forward-looking return expectations for each asset category and a weighted-average expected long-term rate of return for a target portfolio allocated across these investment categories. The expected portfolio performance reflects the contribution of active management as appropriate. For 2024, the expected rate of return for the Company’s U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans will be 7.75% compared with 7.00% in 2023. The Company has established investment guidelines for its U.S. pension and other postretirement plans to create an asset allocation that is expected to deliver a rate of return sufficient to meet the long-term obligation of each plan, given an acceptable level of risk. The target investment portfolio of the Company’s U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans is allocated 25% to 40% in U.S. equities, 10% to 20% in international equities, 35% to 45% in fixed-income investments, and up to 8% in cash and other investments. The portfolio’s equity weighting is consistent with the long-term nature of the plans’ benefit obligations. The expected annual standard deviation of returns of the target portfolio, which approximates 11%, reflects both the equity allocation and the diversification benefits among the asset classes in which the portfolio invests. For international pension plans, the targeted investment portfolio varies based on the duration of pension liabilities and local government rules and regulations. Although a significant percentage of plan assets are invested in U.S. equities, concentration risk is mitigated through the use of strategies that are diversified within management guidelines. Actuarial assumptions are based upon management’s best estimates and judgment. A reasonably possible change of plus (minus) 25 basis points in the discount rate assumption, with other assumptions held constant, would have had an estimated $20 million favorable (unfavorable) impact on the Company’s net periodic benefit cost in 2023. A reasonably possible change of plus (minus) 25 basis points in the expected rate of return assumption, with other assumptions held constant, would have had an estimated $55 million favorable (unfavorable) impact on Merck’s net periodic benefit cost in 2023. Required funding obligations for 2024 relating to the Company’s pension and other postretirement benefit plans are not expected to be material. The preceding hypothetical changes in the discount rate and expected rate of return assumptions would not impact the Company’s funding requirements. Net gain/loss amounts, which primarily reflect differences between expected and actual returns on plan assets as well as the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recorded as a component of AOCL . Expected returns for pension plans are based on a calculated market-related value of assets. Net gain/loss amounts in AOCL in 68 excess of certain thresholds are amortized into net periodic benefit cost over the average remaining service life of employees. Restructuring Costs Restructuring costs have been recorded in connection with restructuring program activities. As a result, the Company has made estimates and judgments regarding its future plans, including future employee termination costs to be incurred in conjunction with involuntary separations when such separations are probable and estimable. When accruing termination costs, the Company will recognize the amount within a range of costs that is the best estimate within the range. When no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount, the Company recognizes the minimum amount within the range. In connection with these actions, management also assesses the recoverability of long-lived assets employed in the business. In certain instances, asset lives have been shortened based on changes in the expected useful lives of the affected assets. Severance and employee-related costs, as well as other costs, such as facility shut-down costs, are reflected within Restructuring costs . Asset-related charges are reflected within Cost of sales , Selling, general and administrative expenses and Research and development expenses depending upon the nature of the asset. Impairments of Long-Lived Assets The Company assesses changes in economic, regulatory and legal conditions and makes assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows in evaluating the value of the Company’s property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets. The Company periodically evaluates whether current facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying values of its long-lived assets to be held and used may not be recoverable. If such circumstances are determined to exist, an estimate of the undiscounted future cash flows of these assets, or appropriate asset groupings, is compared to the carrying value to determine whether an impairment exists. If the asset is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured based on the difference between the asset’s fair value and its carrying value. If quoted market prices are not available, the Company will estimate fair value using a discounted value of estimated future cash flows approach. Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of net assets of businesses acquired. Goodwill is assigned to reporting units and evaluated for impairment on at least an annual basis, or more frequently if impairment indicators exist, by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. Some of the factors considered in the assessment include general macroeconomic conditions, conditions specific to the industry and market, cost factors which could have a significant effect on earnings or cash flows, the overall financial performance of the reporting unit, and whether there have been sustained declines in the Company’s share price. If the Company concludes it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, a quantitative fair value test is performed. If the carrying value of a reporting unit is greater than its fair value, a goodwill impairment charge will be recorded for the difference (up to the carrying value of goodwill). Other acquired intangible assets (excluding IPR&D) are initially recorded at fair value, assigned an estimated useful life, and amortized primarily on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. When events or circumstances warrant a review, the Company will assess recoverability from future operations using pretax undiscounted cash flows derived from the lowest appropriate asset groupings. Impairments are recognized in operating results to the extent that the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, which is determined based on the net present value of estimated future cash flows. IPR&D that the Company acquires in conjunction with a business combination represents the fair value assigned to incomplete research projects which, at the time of acquisition, have not reached technological feasibility. The amounts are capitalized and accounted for as indefinite-lived intangible assets, subject to impairment testing until completion or abandonment of the projects. The Company evaluates IPR&D for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if impairment indicators exist (such as unfavorable clinical trial data, changes in the commercial landscape or delays in the clinical development program and related regulatory filing and approval timelines), by performing a quantitative test that compares the fair value of the IPR&D intangible asset with its carrying value. For impairment testing purposes, the Company may combine separately recorded IPR&D intangible assets into one unit of account based on the relevant facts and circumstances. Generally, the Company will combine IPR&D intangible assets for testing purposes if they operate as a single asset and are essentially inseparable. If the fair value is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized in operating results. The judgments made in evaluating impairment of long-lived intangibles can materially affect the Company’s results of operations. 69 Taxes on Income The Company’s effective tax rate is based on pretax income, statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates. An estimated effective tax rate for a year is applied to the Company’s quarterly operating results. In the event that there is a significant unusual or one-time item recognized, or expected to be recognized, in the Company’s quarterly operating results, the tax attributable to that item would be separately calculated and recorded at the same time as the unusual or one-time item. The Company considers the resolution of prior year tax matters to be such items. Significant judgment is required in determining the Company’s tax provision and in evaluating its tax positions. The recognition and measurement of a tax position is based on management’s best judgment given the facts, circumstances and information available at the reporting date. The Company evaluates tax positions to determine whether the benefits of tax positions are more likely than not of being sustained upon audit based on the technical merits of the tax position. For tax positions that are more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, the Company recognizes the amount of the benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement in the financial statements. For tax positions that are not more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, the Company does not recognize any portion of the benefit in the financial statements. If the more likely than not threshold is not met in the period for which a tax position is taken, the Company may subsequently recognize the benefit of that tax position if the tax matter is effectively settled, the statute of limitations expires, or if the more likely than not threshold is met in a subsequent period (see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements). Tax regulations require items to be included in the tax return at different times than the items are reflected in the financial statements. Timing differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in the tax return in future years for which the Company has already recorded the tax benefit in the financial statements. The Company establishes valuation allowances for its deferred tax assets when the amount of expected future taxable income is not likely to support the use of the deduction or credit. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in the financial statements for which payment has been deferred or expense for which the Company has already taken a deduction on the tax return, but has not yet recognized as expense in the financial statements. Recently Issued Accounting Standards For a discussion of recently issued accounting standards, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results This report and other written reports and oral statements made from time to time by the Company may contain so-called “forward-looking statements,” all of which are based on management’s current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause results to differ materially from those set forth in the statements. One can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of words such as “anticipates,” “expects,” “plans,” “will,” “estimates,” “forecasts,” “projects” and other words of similar meaning, or negative variations of any of the foregoing. One can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. These statements are likely to address the Company’s growth strategy, financial results, product approvals, product potential, development programs, environmental or other sustainability initiatives. One must carefully consider any such statement and should understand that many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the Company’s forward-looking statements. These factors include inaccurate assumptions and a broad variety of other risks and uncertainties, including some that are known and some that are not. No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual future results may vary materially. The Company does not assume the obligation to update any forward-looking statement. One should carefully evaluate such statements in light of factors, including risk factors, described in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, especially on this Form 10-K and Forms 10-Q and 8-K. In Item 1A. “Risk Factors” of this annual report on Form 10-K the Company discusses in more detail various important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ from expected or historic results. The Company notes these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. One should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, the reader should not consider any such list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties.