********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Risks Relating to NEE's and FPL's Business The business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of NEE and FPL are subject to a variety of risks, many of which are beyond the control of NEE and FPL. These risks, as well as additional risks and uncertainties either not presently known or that are currently believed to not be material to the business, may materially adversely affect the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of NEE and FPL and may cause actual results of NEE and FPL to differ substantially from those that NEE or FPL currently expects or seeks. In that event, the market price for the securities of NEE or FPL could decline. Accordingly, the risks described below should be carefully considered together with the other information set forth in this report and in future reports that NEE and FPL file with the SEC. Regulatory, Legislative and Legal Risks NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected by the extensive regulation of their business. The operations of NEE and FPL are subject to complex and comprehensive federal, state and other regulation. This extensive regulatory framework, portions of which are more specifically identified in the following risk factors, regulates, among other things and to varying degrees, NEE's and FPL's industry, businesses, rates and cost structures, operation and licensing of nuclear power facilities, construction and operation of electricity generation, transmission and distribution facilities and natural gas and oil production, natural gas, oil and other fuel transportation, processing and storage facilities, acquisition, disposal, depreciation and amortization of facilities and other assets, decommissioning costs and funding, service reliability, wholesale and retail competition, and commodities trading and derivatives transactions. In their business planning and in the management of their operations, NEE and FPL must address the effects of regulation on their business and any inability or failure to do so adequately could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected if they are unable to recover in a timely manner any significant amount of costs, a return on certain assets or a reasonable return on invested capital through base rates, cost recovery clauses, other regulatory mechanisms or otherwise. FPL operates as an electric utility and is subject to the jurisdiction of the FPSC over a wide range of business activities, including, among other items, the retail rates charged to its customers through base rates and cost recovery clauses, the terms and conditions of its services, procurement of electricity for its customers and fuel for its plant operations, issuances of securities, and aspects of the siting, construction and operation of its generation plants and transmission and distribution systems for the sale of electric energy. The FPSC has the authority to disallow recovery by FPL of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred and to determine the level of return that FPL is permitted to earn on invested capital. The regulatory process, which may be adversely affected by the political, regulatory and economic environment in Florida and elsewhere, limits or could otherwise adversely impact FPL's earnings. The regulatory process also does not provide any assurance as to achievement of authorized or other earnings levels, or that FPL will be permitted to earn an acceptable return on capital investments it wishes to make. NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected if any material amount of costs, a return on certain assets or a reasonable return on invested capital cannot be recovered through base rates, cost recovery clauses, other regulatory mechanisms or otherwise. Certain other subsidiaries of NEE are utilities subject to the jurisdiction of their regulators and are subject to similar risks. Regulatory decisions that are important to NEE and FPL may be materially adversely affected by political, regulatory and economic factors. The local and national political, regulatory and economic environment has had, and may in the future have, an adverse effect on FPSC decisions with negative consequences for FPL. These decisions may require, for example, FPL to cancel or delay planned development activities, to reduce or delay other planned capital expenditures or to pay for investments or otherwise incur costs that it may not be able to recover through rates, each of which could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of NEE and FPL. Certain other subsidiaries of NEE are subject to similar risks. FPL's use of derivative instruments could be subject to prudence challenges and, if found imprudent, could result in disallowances of cost recovery for such use by the FPSC. The FPSC engages in an annual prudence review of FPL's use of derivative instruments in its risk management fuel procurement program and should it find any such use to be imprudent, the FPSC could deny cost recovery for such use by FPL. Such an outcome could have a material adverse effect on FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Any reductions or modifications to, or the elimination of, governmental incentives or policies that support utility scale renewable energy, including, but not limited to, tax laws, policies and incentives, RPS or feed-in-tariffs, or the 20 imposition of additional taxes or other assessments on renewable energy, could result in, among other items, the lack of a satisfactory market for the development and/or financing of new renewable energy projects, NEER abandoning the development of renewable energy projects, a loss of NEER's investments in renewable energy projects and reduced project returns, any of which could have a material adverse effect on NEE's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEER depends heavily on government policies that support utility scale renewable energy and enhance the economic feasibility of developing and operating wind and solar energy projects in regions in which NEER operates or plans to develop and operate renewable energy facilities. The federal government, a majority of state governments in the U.S. and portions of Canada provide incentives, such as tax incentives, RPS or feed-in-tariffs, that support or are designed to support the sale of energy from utility scale renewable energy facilities, such as wind and solar energy facilities. As a result of budgetary constraints, political factors or otherwise, governments from time to time may review their laws and policies that support renewable energy and consider actions that would make the laws and policies less conducive to the development and operation of renewable energy facilities. Any reductions or modifications to, or the elimination of, governmental incentives or policies that support renewable energy or the imposition of additional taxes or other assessments on renewable energy, could result in, among other items, the lack of a satisfactory market for the development and/or financing of new renewable energy projects, NEER abandoning the development of renewable energy projects, a loss of NEER's investments in the projects and reduced project returns, any of which could have a material adverse effect on NEE's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected as a result of new or revised laws, regulations, interpretations or ballot or regulatory initiatives. NEE's and FPL's business is influenced by various legislative and regulatory initiatives, including, but not limited to, new or revised laws, including international trade laws, regulations, interpretations or ballot or regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation or restructuring of the energy industry, regulation of the commodities trading and derivatives markets, and regulation of environmental matters, such as regulation of air emissions, regulation of water consumption and water discharges, and regulation of gas and oil infrastructure operations, as well as associated environmental permitting. Changes in the nature of the regulation of NEE's and FPL's business could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE and FPL are unable to predict future legislative or regulatory changes, initiatives or interpretations, although any such changes, initiatives or interpretations may increase costs and competitive pressures on NEE and FPL, which could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. FPL has limited competition in the Florida market for retail electricity customers. Any changes in Florida law or regulation which introduce competition in the Florida retail electricity market, such as government incentives that facilitate the installation of solar generation facilities on residential or other rooftops at below cost or that are otherwise subsidized by non-participants, or would permit third-party sales of electricity, could have a material adverse effect on FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. There can be no assurance that FPL will be able to respond adequately to such regulatory changes, which could have a material adverse effect on FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEER is subject to FERC rules related to transmission that are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale market on practically a nationwide basis by providing greater certainty, flexibility and more choices to wholesale power customers. NEE cannot predict the impact of changing FERC rules or the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are typically driven by factors beyond NEE's control. There can be no assurance that NEER will be able to respond adequately or sufficiently quickly to such rules and developments, or to any changes that reverse or restrict the competitive restructuring of the energy industry in those jurisdictions in which such restructuring has occurred. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on NEE's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE’s and FPL’s OTC financial derivatives are subject to rules implementing certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and similar international regulations. NEE and FPL cannot predict the impact any proposed or not fully implemented final rules will have on their ability to hedge their commodity and interest rate risks or on OTC derivatives markets as a whole, but such rules and regulations could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's risk exposure, as well as reduce market liquidity and further increase the cost of hedging activities. NEE and FPL are subject to numerous environmental laws, regulations and other standards that may result in capital expenditures, increased operating costs and various liabilities, and may require NEE and FPL to limit or eliminate certain operations. NEE and FPL are subject to domestic environmental laws, regulations and other standards, including, but not limited to, extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality and usage, soil quality, climate change, emissions of greenhouse gases, including, but not limited to, carbon dioxide, waste management, hazardous wastes, marine, avian and other wildlife mortality and habitat protection, historical artifact preservation, natural resources, health (including, but not limited to, electric and magnetic fields from power lines and substations), safety and RPS, that could, among other things, prevent or delay the development of power generation, power or natural gas transmission, or other infrastructure projects, restrict or enjoin the output of some existing facilities, limit the availability and use of some fuels 21 required for the production of electricity, require additional pollution control equipment, and otherwise increase costs, increase capital expenditures and limit or eliminate certain operations. Certain subsidiaries of NEE are also subject to foreign environmental laws, regulations and other standards and, as such, are subject to similar risks. There are significant capital, operating and other costs associated with compliance with these environmental statutes, rules and regulations, and those costs could be even more significant in the future as a result of new requirements and stricter or more expansive application of existing environmental laws and regulations. Violations of current or future laws, rules, regulations or other standards could expose NEE and FPL to regulatory and legal proceedings, disputes with, and legal challenges by, governmental entities and third parties, and potentially significant civil fines, criminal penalties and other sanctions, such as restrictions on how NEER develops, sites and operates wind facilities. Proceedings could include, without limitation, litigation regarding property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance and enforcement by citizens or governmental authorities of environmental requirements. For example, NEER’s wind facilities operate without take permits under the Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act (BGEPA) and the federal government could seek to prosecute NEER or its wind facility subsidiaries for the accidental eagle collisions with wind turbines or other structures that occur or may occur at those facilities for criminal violations of BGEPA if the federal government ultimately disagrees with NEER’s position that BGEPA’s criminal liability provisions relate only to hunting and other intentional activities, and do not apply to accidental collisions with wind turbines or other structures, such as airplanes and buildings. NEE's and FPL's business could be negatively affected by federal or state laws or regulations mandating new or additional limits on the production of greenhouse gas emissions. Federal or state laws or regulations may be adopted that would impose new or additional limits on the emissions of greenhouse gases, including, but not limited to, carbon dioxide and methane, from electric generation units using fossil fuels like coal and natural gas. The potential effects of greenhouse gas emission limits on NEE's and FPL's electric generation units are subject to significant uncertainties based on, among other things, the timing of the implementation of any new requirements, the required levels of emission reductions, the nature of any market-based or tax-based mechanisms adopted to facilitate reductions, the relative availability of greenhouse gas emission reduction offsets, the development of cost-effective, commercial-scale carbon capture and storage technology and supporting regulations and liability mitigation measures, and the range of available compliance alternatives. While NEE's and FPL's electric generation portfolio emits greenhouse gases at a lower rate of emissions than most of the U.S. electric generation sector, the results of operations of NEE and FPL could be materially adversely affected to the extent that new federal or state laws or regulations impose any new greenhouse gas emission limits. Any future limits on greenhouse gas emissions could: • create substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emissions allowances; • make some of NEE's and FPL's electric generation units uneconomical to operate in the long term; • require significant capital investment in carbon capture and storage technology, fuel switching, or the replacement of high-emitting generation facilities with lower-emitting generation facilities; or • affect the availability or cost of fossil fuels. There can be no assurance that NEE or FPL would be able to completely recover any such costs or investments, which could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Extensive federal regulation of the operations and businesses of NEE and FPL exposes NEE and FPL to significant and increasing compliance costs and may also expose them to substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions for compliance failures. NEE's and FPL's operations and businesses are subject to extensive federal regulation, which generally imposes significant and increasing compliance costs on their operations and businesses. Additionally, any actual or alleged compliance failures could result in significant costs and other potentially adverse effects of regulatory investigations, proceedings, settlements, decisions and claims, including, among other items, potentially significant monetary penalties. As an example, under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, NEE and FPL, as owners and operators of bulk-power transmission systems and/or electric generation facilities, are subject to mandatory reliability standards. Compliance with these mandatory reliability standards may subject NEE and FPL to higher operating costs and may result in increased capital expenditures. If FPL or NEE is found not to be in compliance with these standards, they may incur substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions. Both the costs of regulatory compliance and the costs that may be imposed as a result of any actual or alleged compliance failures could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Changes in tax laws, guidance or policies, including but not limited to changes in corporate income tax rates, as well as judgments and estimates used in the determination of tax-related asset and liability amounts, could materially adversely affect NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 22 NEE's and FPL's provision for income taxes and reporting of tax-related assets and liabilities require significant judgments and the use of estimates. Amounts of tax-related assets and liabilities involve judgments and estimates of the timing and probability of recognition of income, deductions and tax credits, including, but not limited to, estimates for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken and the ability to utilize tax benefit carryforwards, such as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Actual income taxes could vary significantly from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of, among other things, changes in tax laws, guidance or policies, including changes in corporate income tax rates, the financial condition and results of operations of NEE and FPL, and the resolution of audit issues raised by taxing authorities. These factors, including the ultimate resolution of income tax matters, may result in material adjustments to tax-related assets and liabilities, which could materially adversely affect NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected due to adverse results of litigation. NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially affected by adverse results of litigation. Unfavorable resolution of legal or administrative proceedings in which NEE or FPL is involved or other future legal or administrative proceedings may have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of NEE and FPL. Development and Operational Risks NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could suffer if NEE and FPL do not proceed with projects under development or are unable to complete the construction of, or capital improvements to, electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities or other facilities on schedule or within budget. NEE's and FPL's ability to proceed with projects under development and to complete construction of, and capital improvement projects for, their electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities and other facilities on schedule and within budget may be adversely affected by escalating costs for materials and labor and regulatory compliance, inability to obtain or renew necessary licenses, rights-of-way, permits or other approvals on acceptable terms or on schedule, disputes involving contractors, labor organizations, land owners, governmental entities, environmental groups, Native American and aboriginal groups, lessors, joint venture partners and other third parties, negative publicity, transmission interconnection issues and other factors. If any development project or construction or capital improvement project is not completed, is delayed or is subject to cost overruns, certain associated costs may not be approved for recovery or otherwise be recoverable through regulatory mechanisms that may be available, and NEE and FPL could become obligated to make delay or termination payments or become obligated for other damages under contracts, could experience the loss of tax credits or tax incentives, or delayed or diminished returns, and could be required to write off all or a portion of their investment in the project. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE and FPL face risks related to project siting, financing, construction, permitting, governmental approvals and the negotiation of project development agreements that may impede their development and operating activities. NEE and FPL own, develop, construct, manage and operate electric-generation and transmission facilities and natural gas transmission facilities. A key component of NEE's and FPL's growth is their ability to construct and operate generation and transmission facilities to meet customer needs. As part of these operations, NEE and FPL must periodically apply for licenses and permits from various local, state, federal and other regulatory authorities and abide by their respective conditions. Should NEE or FPL be unsuccessful in obtaining necessary licenses or permits on acceptable terms or resolving third-party challenges to such licenses or permits, should there be a delay in obtaining or renewing necessary licenses or permits or should regulatory authorities initiate any associated investigations or enforcement actions or impose related penalties or disallowances on NEE or FPL, NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Any failure to negotiate successful project development agreements for new facilities with third parties could have similar results. The operation and maintenance of NEE's and FPL's electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities, retail gas distribution system in Florida and other facilities are subject to many operational risks, the consequences of which could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE's and FPL's electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities, retail gas distribution system in Florida and other facilities are subject to many operational risks. Operational risks could result in, among other things, lost revenues due to prolonged outages, increased expenses due to monetary penalties or fines for compliance failures or legal claims, liability to third parties for property and personal injury damage or loss of life, a failure to perform under applicable power sales agreements or other agreements and associated loss of revenues from terminated agreements or liability for liquidated damages under continuing agreements, and replacement equipment costs or an obligation to purchase or generate replacement power at higher prices. 23 Uncertainties and risks inherent in operating and maintaining NEE's and FPL's facilities include, but are not limited to: • risks associated with facility start-up operations, such as whether the facility will achieve projected operating performance on schedule and otherwise as planned; • failures in the availability, acquisition or transportation of fuel or other necessary supplies; • the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, icing events, floods, earthquakes and droughts; • performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency; • breakdown or failure, including, but not limited to, explosions, fires, leaks or other major events, of equipment, transmission or distribution systems or pipelines; • availability of replacement equipment; • risks of property damage, human injury or loss of life from energized equipment, hazardous substances or explosions, fires, leaks or other events, especially where facilities are located near populated areas; • potential environmental impacts of gas infrastructure operations; • availability of adequate water resources and ability to satisfy water intake and discharge requirements; • inability to identify, manage properly or mitigate equipment defects in NEE's and FPL's facilities; • use of new or unproven technology; • risks associated with dependence on a specific type of fuel or fuel source, such as commodity price risk, availability of adequate fuel supply and transportation, and lack of available alternative fuel sources; • increased competition due to, among other factors, new facilities, excess supply, shifting demand and regulatory changes; and • insufficient insurance, warranties or performance guarantees to cover any or all lost revenues or increased expenses from the foregoing. NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be negatively affected by a lack of growth or slower growth in the number of customers or in customer usage. Growth in customer accounts and growth of customer usage each directly influence the demand for electricity and the need for additional power generation and power delivery facilities, as well as the need for energy-related commodities such as natural gas. Customer growth and customer usage are affected by a number of factors outside the control of NEE and FPL, such as mandated energy efficiency measures, demand side management requirements, and economic and demographic conditions, such as population changes, job and income growth, housing starts, new business formation and the overall level of economic activity. A lack of growth, or a decline, in the number of customers or in customer demand for electricity or natural gas and other fuels may cause NEE and FPL to fail to fully realize the anticipated benefits from significant investments and expenditures and could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's growth, business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects can be materially adversely affected by weather conditions, including, but not limited to, the impact of severe weather. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and other fuels and affect the price of energy and energy-related commodities. In addition, severe weather and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, icing events and earthquakes, can be destructive and cause power outages and property damage, reduce revenue, affect the availability of fuel and water, and require NEE and FPL to incur additional costs, for example, to restore service and repair damaged facilities, to obtain replacement power and to access available financing sources. Furthermore, NEE's and FPL's physical plants could be placed at greater risk of damage should changes in the global climate produce unusual variations in temperature and weather patterns, resulting in more intense, frequent and extreme weather events, abnormal levels of precipitation and, particularly relevant to FPL, a change in sea level. FPL operates in the east and lower west coasts of Florida and in northwest Florida, areas that historically have been prone to severe weather events, such as hurricanes. A disruption or failure of electric generation, transmission or distribution systems or natural gas production, transmission, storage or distribution systems in the event of a hurricane, tornado or other severe weather event, or otherwise, could prevent NEE and FPL from operating their business in the normal course and could result in any of the adverse consequences described above. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. At FPL and other businesses of NEE where cost recovery is available, recovery of costs to restore service and repair damaged facilities is or may be subject to regulatory approval, and any determination by the regulator not to permit timely and full recovery of the costs incurred could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Changes in weather can also affect the production of electricity at power generation facilities, including, but not limited to, NEER's wind and solar facilities. For example, the level of wind resource affects the revenue produced by wind generation facilities. Because the levels of wind and solar resources are variable and difficult to predict, NEER's results of operations for individual wind and solar facilities specifically, and NEE's results of operations generally, may vary significantly from period to 24 period, depending on the level of available resources. To the extent that resources are not available at planned levels, the financial results from these facilities may be less than expected. Threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism, cyberattacks, or individuals and/or groups attempting to disrupt NEE's and FPL's business, or the businesses of third parties, may materially adversely affect NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE and FPL are subject to the potentially adverse operating and financial effects of terrorist acts and threats, as well as cyberattacks and other disruptive activities of individuals or groups. There have been cyberattacks within the energy industry on energy infrastructure such as substations, gas pipelines and related assets in the past and there may be such attacks in the future. NEE's and FPL's generation, transmission and distribution facilities, fuel storage facilities, information technology systems and other infrastructure facilities and systems could be direct targets of, or otherwise be materially adversely affected by, such activities. Terrorist acts, cyberattacks or other similar events affecting NEE's and FPL's systems and facilities, or those of third parties on which NEE and FPL rely, could harm NEE's and FPL's business, for example, by limiting their ability to generate, purchase or transmit power, natural gas or other energy-related commodities, by limiting their ability to bill customers and collect and process payments, and by delaying their development and construction of new generation, distribution or transmission facilities or capital improvements to existing facilities. These events, and governmental actions in response, could result in a material decrease in revenues, significant additional costs (for example, to repair assets, implement additional security requirements or maintain or acquire insurance), significant fines and penalties, and reputational damage, could materially adversely affect NEE's and FPL's operations (for example, by contributing to disruption of supplies and markets for natural gas, oil and other fuels), and could impair NEE's and FPL's ability to raise capital (for example, by contributing to financial instability and lower economic activity). In addition, the implementation of security guidelines and measures has resulted in and is expected to continue to result in increased costs. Such events or actions may materially adversely affect NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The ability of NEE and FPL to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be materially adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. NEE's and FPL's insurance coverage does not provide protection against all significant losses. Insurance coverage may not continue to be available or may not be available at rates or on terms similar to those presently available to NEE and FPL. The ability of NEE and FPL to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be materially adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. If insurance coverage is not available or obtainable on acceptable terms, NEE or FPL may be required to pay costs associated with adverse future events. NEE and FPL generally are not fully insured against all significant losses. For example, FPL is not fully insured against hurricane-related losses, but could instead seek recovery of such uninsured losses from customers subject to approval by the FPSC, to the extent losses exceed restricted funds set aside to cover the cost of storm damage. A loss for which NEE or FPL is not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE invests in gas and oil producing and transmission assets through NEER’s gas infrastructure business. The gas infrastructure business is exposed to fluctuating market prices of natural gas, natural gas liquids, oil and other energy commodities. A prolonged period of low gas and oil prices could impact NEER’s gas infrastructure business and cause NEER to delay or cancel certain gas infrastructure projects and could result in certain projects becoming impaired, which could materially adversely affect NEE's results of operations. Natural gas and oil prices are affected by supply and demand, both globally and regionally. Factors that influence supply and demand include operational issues, natural disasters, weather, political instability, conflicts, new discoveries, technological advances, economic conditions and actions by major oil-producing countries. There can be significant volatility in market prices for gas and oil, and price fluctuations could have a material effect on the financial performance of gas and oil producing and transmission assets. For example, in a low gas and oil price environment, NEER would generate less revenue from its gas infrastructure investments in gas and oil producing properties, and as a result certain investments might become less profitable or incur losses. Prolonged periods of low oil and gas prices could also result in the delay or cancellation of oil and gas production and transmission projects, could cause projects to experience lower returns, and could result in certain projects becoming impaired, which could materially adversely affect NEE's results of operations. If supply costs necessary to provide NEER's full energy and capacity requirement services are not favorable, operating costs could increase and materially adversely affect NEE's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEER provides full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities, which include load-following services and various ancillary services, to satisfy all or a portion of such utilities' power supply obligations to their customers. The supply costs for these transactions may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, events that may occur after such utilities have committed to supply power, such as weather conditions, fluctuating prices for energy and ancillary 25 services, and the ability of the distribution utilities' customers to elect to receive service from competing suppliers. NEER may not be able to recover all of its increased supply costs, which could have a material adverse effect on NEE's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Due to the potential for significant volatility in market prices for fuel, electricity and renewable and other energy commodities, NEER's inability or failure to manage properly or hedge effectively the commodity risks within its portfolios could materially adversely affect NEE's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. There can be significant volatility in market prices for fuel, electricity and renewable and other energy commodities. NEE's inability or failure to manage properly or hedge effectively its assets or positions against changes in commodity prices, volumes, interest rates, counterparty credit risk or other risk measures, based on factors that are either within, or wholly or partially outside of, NEE's control, may materially adversely affect NEE's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Reductions in the liquidity of energy markets may restrict the ability of NEE to manage its operational risks, which, in turn, could negatively affect NEE's results of operations. NEE is an active participant in energy markets. The liquidity of regional energy markets is an important factor in NEE's ability to manage risks in these operations. Market liquidity is driven in part by the number of active market participants. Liquidity in the energy markets can be adversely affected by price volatility, restrictions on the availability of credit and other factors, and any reduction in the liquidity of energy markets could have a material adverse effect on NEE's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE's and FPL's hedging and trading procedures and associated risk management tools may not protect against significant losses. NEE and FPL have hedging and trading procedures and associated risk management tools, such as separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. NEE and FPL are unable to assure that such procedures and tools will be effective against all potential risks, including, without limitation, employee misconduct. If such procedures and tools are not effective, this could have a material adverse effect on NEE's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If price movements significantly or persistently deviate from historical behavior, NEE's and FPL's risk management tools associated with their hedging and trading procedures may not protect against significant losses. NEE's and FPL's risk management tools and metrics associated with their hedging and trading procedures, such as daily value at risk, earnings at risk, stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines, are based on historical price movements. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in price movements and potential deviation from historical pricing behavior, NEE and FPL are unable to assure that their risk management tools and metrics will be effective to protect against material adverse effects on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If power transmission or natural gas, nuclear fuel or other commodity transportation facilities are unavailable or disrupted, the ability for subsidiaries of NEE, including FPL, to sell and deliver power or natural gas may be limited. Subsidiaries of NEE, including FPL, depend upon power transmission and natural gas, nuclear fuel and other commodity transportation facilities, many of which they do not own. Occurrences affecting the operation of these facilities that may or may not be beyond the control of subsidiaries of NEE, including FPL, (such as severe weather or a generation or transmission facility outage, pipeline rupture, or sudden and significant increase or decrease in wind generation) may limit or halt their ability to sell and deliver power and natural gas, or to purchase necessary fuels and other commodities, which could materially adversely impact NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE and FPL are subject to credit and performance risk from customers, hedging counterparties and vendors. NEE and FPL are exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness and performance of their customers, hedging counterparties and vendors under contracts for the supply of equipment, materials, fuel and other goods and services required for their business operations and for the construction and operation of, and for capital improvements to, their facilities. Adverse conditions in the energy industry or the general economy, as well as circumstances of individual customers, hedging counterparties and vendors, may adversely affect the ability of some customers, hedging counterparties and vendors to perform as required under their contracts with NEE and FPL. If any hedging, vending or other counterparty fails to fulfill its contractual obligations, NEE and FPL may need to make arrangements with other counterparties or vendors, which could result in material financial losses, higher costs, untimely completion of power generation facilities and other projects, and/or a disruption of their operations. If a defaulting counterparty is in poor financial condition, NEE and FPL may not be able to recover damages for any contract breach. 26 NEE and FPL could recognize financial losses or a reduction in operating cash flows if a counterparty fails to perform or make payments in accordance with the terms of derivative contracts or if NEE or FPL is required to post margin cash collateral under derivative contracts. NEE and FPL use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, some of which are traded in the OTC markets or on exchanges, to manage their commodity and financial market risks, and for NEE to engage in trading and marketing activities. Any failures by their counterparties to perform or make payments in accordance with the terms of those transactions could have a material adverse effect on NEE's or FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Similarly, any requirement for FPL or NEE to post margin cash collateral under its derivative contracts could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. These risks may be increased during periods of adverse market or economic conditions affecting the industry in which NEE and FPL participate. NEE and FPL are highly dependent on sensitive and complex information technology systems, and any failure or breach of those systems could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE and FPL operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continuous functioning of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. Despite NEE's and FPL's implementation of security measures, all of their technology systems are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access due to such activities. If NEE's or FPL's information technology systems were to fail or be breached, sensitive confidential and other data could be compromised and NEE and FPL could be unable to fulfill critical business functions. NEE's and FPL's business is highly dependent on their ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a very large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex and cross numerous and diverse markets. Due to the size, scope, complexity and geographical reach of NEE's and FPL's business, the development and maintenance of information technology systems to keep track of and process information is critical and challenging. NEE's and FPL's operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are either within, or wholly or partially outside of, their control, such as operator error, severe weather, terrorist activities or cyber incidents. Any such failure or disabling event could materially adversely affect NEE's and FPL's ability to process transactions and provide services, and their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE and FPL add, modify and replace information systems on a regular basis. Modifying existing information systems or implementing new or replacement information systems is costly and involves risks, including, but not limited to, integrating the modified, new or replacement system with existing systems and processes, implementing associated changes in accounting procedures and controls, and ensuring that data conversion is accurate and consistent. Any disruptions or deficiencies in existing information systems, or disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the modification or implementation of new information systems, could result in increased costs, the inability to track or collect revenues and the diversion of management's and employees' attention and resources, and could negatively impact the effectiveness of the companies' control environment, and/or the companies' ability to timely file required regulatory reports. NEE and FPL also face the risks of operational failure or capacity constraints of third parties, including, but not limited to, those who provide power transmission and natural gas transportation services. NEE's and FPL's retail businesses are subject to the risk that sensitive customer data may be compromised, which could result in a material adverse impact to their reputation and/or have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of NEE and FPL. NEE's and FPL's retail businesses require access to sensitive customer data in the ordinary course of business. NEE's and FPL's retail businesses may also need to provide sensitive customer data to vendors and service providers who require access to this information in order to provide services, such as call center services, to the retail businesses. If a significant breach occurred, the reputation of NEE and FPL could be materially adversely affected, customer confidence could be diminished, or customer information could be subject to identity theft. NEE and FPL would be subject to costs associated with the breach and/or NEE and FPL could be subject to fines and legal claims, any of which may have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of NEE and FPL. NEE and FPL could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of derivative instruments and limited liquidity in OTC markets. NEE and FPL execute transactions in derivative instruments on either recognized exchanges or via the OTC markets, depending on management's assessment of the most favorable credit and market execution factors. Transactions executed in OTC markets have the potential for greater volatility and less liquidity than transactions on recognized exchanges. As a result, NEE and FPL may not be able to execute desired OTC transactions due to such heightened volatility and limited liquidity. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of derivative instruments involves management's judgment and use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of 27 alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these derivative instruments and have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE and FPL may be materially adversely affected by negative publicity. From time to time, political and public sentiment may result in a significant amount of adverse press coverage and other adverse public statements affecting NEE and FPL. Adverse press coverage and other adverse statements, whether or not driven by political or public sentiment, may also result in investigations by regulators, legislators and law enforcement officials or in legal claims. Responding to these investigations and lawsuits, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceeding, can divert the time and effort of senior management from NEE's and FPL's business. Addressing any adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny or enforcement or other legal proceedings is time consuming and expensive and, regardless of the factual basis for the assertions being made, can have a negative impact on the reputation of NEE and FPL, on the morale and performance of their employees and on their relationships with regulators. It may also have a negative impact on their ability to take timely advantage of various business and market opportunities. The direct and indirect effects of negative publicity, and the demands of responding to and addressing it, may have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be adversely affected if FPL is unable to maintain, negotiate or renegotiate franchise agreements on acceptable terms with municipalities and counties in Florida. FPL may negotiate franchise agreements with municipalities and counties in Florida to provide electric services within such municipalities and counties, and electricity sales generated pursuant to these agreements represent a very substantial portion of FPL's revenues. If FPL is unable to maintain, negotiate or renegotiate such franchise agreements on acceptable terms, it could contribute to lower earnings and FPL may not fully realize the anticipated benefits from significant investments and expenditures, which could adversely affect NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected by work strikes or stoppages and increasing personnel costs. Employee strikes or work stoppages could disrupt operations and lead to a loss of revenue and customers. Personnel costs may also increase due to inflationary or competitive pressures on payroll and benefits costs and revised terms of collective bargaining agreements with union employees. These consequences could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE's ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including, but not limited to, the effect of increased competition for acquisitions resulting from the consolidation of the energy industry. NEE is likely to encounter significant competition for acquisition opportunities that may become available as a result of the consolidation of the energy industry in general. In addition, NEE may be unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities at favorable prices and to complete and integrate them successfully and in a timely manner. Nuclear Generation Risks The operation and maintenance of NEE's and FPL's nuclear generation facilities involve environmental, health and financial risks that could result in fines or the closure of the facilities and in increased costs and capital expenditures. NEE's and FPL's nuclear generation facilities are subject to environmental, health and financial risks, including, but not limited to, those relating to site storage of spent nuclear fuel, the disposition of spent nuclear fuel, leakage and emissions of tritium and other radioactive elements in the event of a nuclear accident or otherwise, the threat of a terrorist attack or cyber incident and other potential liabilities arising out of the ownership or operation of the facilities. NEE and FPL maintain decommissioning funds and external insurance coverage which are intended to reduce the financial exposure to some of these risks; however, the cost of decommissioning nuclear generation facilities could exceed the amount available in NEE's and FPL's decommissioning funds, and the exposure to liability and property damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. If NEE or FPL is unable to recover the additional costs incurred through insurance or, in the case of FPL, through regulatory mechanisms, their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. In the event of an incident at any nuclear generation facility in the U.S. or at certain nuclear generation facilities in Europe, NEE and FPL could be assessed significant retrospective assessments and/or retrospective insurance premiums as a result of their participation in a secondary financial protection system and nuclear insurance mutual companies. 28 Liability for accidents at nuclear power plants is governed by the Price-Anderson Act, which limits the liability of nuclear reactor owners to the amount of insurance available from both private sources and an industry retrospective payment plan. In accordance with this Act, NEE maintains the maximum amount of private liability insurance obtainable, and participates in a secondary financial protection system, which provides liability insurance coverage for an incident at any nuclear reactor in the U.S. Under the secondary financial protection system, NEE is subject to retrospective assessments and/or retrospective insurance premiums, plus any applicable taxes, for an incident at any nuclear reactor in the U.S. or at certain nuclear generation facilities in Europe, regardless of fault or proximity to the incident. Such assessments, if levied, could materially adversely affect NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NRC orders or new regulations related to increased security measures and any future safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could require NEE and FPL to incur substantial operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear generation facilities and/or result in reduced revenues. The NRC has broad authority to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation and maintenance of nuclear generation facilities, the addition of capacity at existing nuclear generation facilities and the construction of new nuclear generation facilities, and these requirements are subject to change. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines and/or shut down a nuclear generation facility, depending upon the NRC's assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Any of the foregoing events could require NEE and FPL to incur increased costs and capital expenditures, and could reduce revenues. Any serious nuclear incident occurring at a NEE or FPL plant could result in substantial remediation costs and other expenses. A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear generation facility. An incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world also could cause the NRC to impose additional conditions or other requirements on the industry, or on certain types of nuclear generation units, which could increase costs, reduce revenues and result in additional capital expenditures. The inability to operate any of NEE's or FPL's nuclear generation units through the end of their respective operating licenses could have a mater ial adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If any of NEE's or FPL's nuclear generation facilities are not operated for any reason through the life of their respective operating licenses, NEE or FPL may be required to increase depreciation rates, incur impairment charges and accelerate future decommissioning expenditures, any of which could materially adversely affect their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE's and FPL's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate planned refueling and maintenance outages, and for other purposes. If planned outages last longer than anticipated or if there are unplanned outages, NEE's and FPL's results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. NEE's and FPL's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate planned refueling and maintenance outages, including, but not limited to, inspections, repairs and certain other modifications as well as to replace equipment. In the event that a scheduled outage lasts longer than anticipated or in the event of an unplanned outage due to, for example, equipment failure, such outages could materially adversely affect NEE's or FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Liquidity, Capital Requirements and Common Stock Risks Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets, among other factors, may negatively affect NEE's and FPL's ability to fund their liquidity and capital needs and to meet their growth objectives, and can also materially adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of NEE and FPL. NEE and FPL rely on access to capital and credit markets as significant sources of liquidity for capital requirements and other operations requirements that are not satisfied by operating cash flows. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in those capital and credit markets could increase NEE's and FPL's cost of capital and affect their ability to fund their liquidity and capital needs and to meet their growth objectives. If NEE or FPL is unable to access regularly the capital and credit markets on terms that are reasonable, it may have to delay raising capital, issue shorter-term securities and incur an unfavorable cost of capital, which, in turn, could adversely affect its ability to grow its business, could contribute to lower earnings and reduced financial flexibility, and could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Although NEE's competitive energy and certain other subsidiaries have used non-recourse or limited-recourse, project-specific or other financing in the past, market conditions and other factors could adversely affect the future availability of such financing. The inability of NEE's subsidiaries, including, without limitation, NEECH and its subsidiaries, to access the capital and credit markets to provide project-specific or other financing for electric generation or other facilities or acquisitions on favorable terms, whether because of disruptions or volatility in those markets or otherwise, could necessitate additional capital raising or borrowings by NEE and/or NEECH in the future. 29 The inability of subsidiaries that have existing project-specific or other financing arrangements to meet the requirements of various agreements relating to those financings, as well as actions by third parties or lenders, could give rise to a project-specific financing default which, if not cured or waived, might result in the specific project, and potentially in some limited instances its parent companies, being required to repay the associated debt or other borrowings earlier than otherwise anticipated, and if such repayment were not made, the lenders or security holders would generally have rights to foreclose against the project assets and related collateral. Such an occurrence also could result in NEE expending additional funds or incurring additional obligations over the shorter term to ensure continuing compliance with project-specific financing arrangements based upon the expectation of improvement in the project's performance or financial returns over the longer term. Any of these actions could materially adversely affect NEE's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, as well as the availability or terms of future financings for NEE or its subsidiaries. NEE's, NEECH's and FPL's inability to maintain their current credit ratings may materially adversely affect NEE's and FPL's liquidity and results of operations, limit the ability of NEE and FPL to grow their business, and increase interest costs. The inability of NEE, NEECH and FPL to maintain their current credit ratings could materially adversely affect their ability to raise capital or obtain credit on favorable terms, which, in turn, could impact NEE's and FPL's ability to grow their business and service indebtedness and repay borrowings, and would likely increase their interest costs. In addition, certain agreements and guarantee arrangements would require posting of additional collateral in the event of a ratings downgrade. Some of the factors that can affect credit ratings are cash flows, liquidity, the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization, NEE's overall business mix and political, legislative and regulatory actions. There can be no assurance that one or more of the ratings of NEE, NEECH and FPL will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. NEE's and FPL's liquidity may be impaired if their credit providers are unable to fund their credit commitments to the companies or to maintain their current credit ratings. The inability of NEE's, NEECH's and FPL's credit providers to fund their credit commitments or to maintain their current credit ratings could require NEE, NEECH or FPL, among other things, to renegotiate requirements in agreements, find an alternative credit provider with acceptable credit ratings to meet funding requirements, or post cash collateral and could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's liquidity. Poor market performance and other economic factors could affect NEE's defined benefit pension plan's funded status, which may materially adversely affect NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations and prospects. NEE sponsors a qualified noncontributory defined benefit pension plan for substantially all employees of NEE and its subsidiaries. A decline in the market value of the assets held in the defined benefit pension plan due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase the funding requirements for this obligation. NEE's defined benefit pension plan is sensitive to changes in interest rates, since as interest rates decrease, the funding liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefits costs and funding requirements. Any increase in benefits costs or funding requirements may have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. Poor market performance and other economic factors could adversely affect the asset values of NEE's and FPL's nuclear decommissioning funds, which may materially adversely affect NEE's and FPL's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. NEE and FPL are required to maintain decommissioning funds to satisfy their future obligations to decommission their nuclear power plants. A decline in the market value of the assets held in the decommissioning funds due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase the funding requirements for these obligations. Any increase in funding requirements may have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Certain of NEE's investments are subject to changes in market value and other risks, which may materially adversely affect NEE's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. NEE holds certain investments where changes in the fair value affect NEE's financial results. In some cases there may be no observable market values for these investments, requiring fair value estimates to be based on other valuation techniques. This type of analysis requires significant judgment and the actual values realized in a sale of these investments could differ materially from those estimated. A sale of an investment below previously estimated value, or other decline in the fair value of an investment, could result in losses or the write-off of such investment, and may have a material adverse effect on NEE's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. NEE may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay funds to NEE. 30 NEE is a holding company and, as such, has no material operations of its own. Substantially all of NEE's consolidated assets are held by its subsidiaries. NEE's ability to meet its financial obligations, including, but not limited to, its guarantees, and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on its subsidiaries' net income and cash flows, which are subject to the risks of their respective businesses, and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to NEE. NEE's subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no independent obligation to provide NEE with funds for its payment obligations. The subsidiaries have financial obligations, including, but not limited to, payment of debt service, which they must satisfy before they can provide NEE with funds. In addition, in the event of a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization, NEE's right to participate in a distribution of assets is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. The dividend-paying ability of some of the subsidiaries is limited by contractual restrictions which are contained in outstanding financing agreements and which may be included in future financing agreements. The future enactment of laws or regulations also may prohibit or restrict the ability of NEE's subsidiaries to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds. NEE may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if NEE is required to perform under guarantees of obligations of its subsidiaries. NEE guarantees many of the obligations of its consolidated subsidiaries, other than FPL, through guarantee agreements with NEECH. These guarantees may require NEE to provide substantial funds to its subsidiaries or their creditors or counterparties at a time when NEE is in need of liquidity to meet its own financial obligations. Funding such guarantees may materially adversely affect NEE's ability to meet its financial obligations or to pay dividends. NEP may not be able to access sources of capital on commercially reasonable terms, which would have a material adverse effect on its ability to consummate future acquisitions and on the value of NEE’s limited partner interest in NEP OpCo. Through an indirect wholly owned subsidiary, NEE owns a limited partner interest in NEP OpCo. NEP's inability to access capital on commercially reasonable terms and effectively consummate future acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on NEP's ability to grow its cash distributions to its common unitholders, including NEE, and on the value of NEE’s limited partnership interest in NEP OpCo. In addition, NEP's issuance of additional common units, securities convertible into NEP common units or other securities in connection with acquisitions could cause significant common unitholder dilution and reduce cash distributions to its common unitholders, including NEE, if the acquisitions are not sufficiently accretive. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may exert downward pressure on the market price of NEE's common stock. The market price and trading volume of NEE's common stock are subject to fluctuations as a result of, among other factors, general credit and capital market conditions and changes in market sentiment regarding the operations, business and financing strategies of NEE and its subsidiaries. As a result, disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may, for example, have a material adverse effect on the market price of NEE's common stock. Widespread public health crises and epidemics or pandemics, including the novel coronavirus (COVID-19), may have material adverse impacts on NEE’s and FPL's business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. NEE and FPL are subject to the impacts of widespread public health crises, epidemics and pandemics, including, but not limited to, impacts on the global, national or local economy, capital and credit markets, NEE's and FPL's workforce, customers and suppliers. There is no assurance that NEE's and FPL's businesses will be able to operate without material adverse impacts depending on the nature of the public health crisis, epidemic or pandemic. Actions taken in response to such crises by federal, state and local government or regulatory agencies may have a material adverse impact on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. The ultimate severity, duration and impact of public health crises, epidemics and pandemics cannot be predicted. Additionally, there is no assurance that vaccines or other treatments will be widely available or effective, or that the public will be willing to participate, in an effort to contain the spread of disease. NEE and FPL are closely monitoring the global outbreak of COVID-19. At this time, NEE and FPL are unable to determine the ultimate severity or duration of the outbreak or its effects on, among other things, the global, national or local economy, the capital and credit markets, or NEE’s and FPL’s workforce, customers and suppliers. To date, COVID-19 has not had a material adverse impact on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following is a discussion and analysis of our financial position as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 and results of operations for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020. This commentary should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto appearing under “Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Executive Overview Our Business Motorola Solutions is a global leader in mission critical communications and analytics. Our technologies in Land Mobile Radio Mission Critical Communications ("LMR" or "LMR Mission Critical Communications"), Command Center Software and Video Security and Analytics, bolstered by managed and support services, make communities safer and help businesses stay productive and secure. We serve more than 100,000 public safety and commercial customers in over 100 countries, providing “purpose-built” solutions designed for their unique needs, and we have a rich heritage of innovation focusing on advancing global safety for more than 90 years. We manage our business organizationally through two segments: “Products and Systems Integration” and “Software and Services.” Within these segments, the Company has principal product lines that also follow our three major technologies: LMR Mission Critical Communications, Command Center Software, and Video Security and Analytics. The Company has invested across these three technologies, evolving the Company’s LMR focus to purposefully integrate software, video security and analytics solutions for public safety and enterprise customers globally. Our strategy is to generate value through the integration of each technology into our ecosystem, uniting voice, software, video and analytics to interoperate. While each technology individually strives to make users safer and more productive, we believe we can enable better outcomes between individuals, businesses and agencies united as one connected system. With our interplay of technologies, our goal is to help remove silos between systems, unify data, streamline workflows, simplify management and support evolving technologies. Examples of such interplay include sharing video feeds from a school to a police command center and officers’ devices in the field to improve situational awareness, uploading field reports or crime scene photos directly into an agency’s evidence system to save administration time, and connecting teams across networks to ensure messages are easily shared and teams can work as one. Our goal is to integrate technologies according to customers’ desired operational outcomes so they can work faster, smarter and more safely. Across all three technologies, we offer cloud-based solutions, cybersecurity services and managed and support services. The principal products within each segment, by technology, are described below: Products and Systems Integration Segment In 2020, the segment’s net sales were $4.6 billion, representing 63% of our consolidated net sales. LMR Mission Critical Communications Our LMR Mission Critical Communications technology includes infrastructure and devices for LMR, public safety Long Term Evolution (“LTE”) and enterprise-grade private LTE. We are a global leader in the two-way radio category, including Project 25 (“P25”), Terrestrial Trunked Radio (“TETRA”) and Digital Mobile Radio (“DMR”), as well as other professional and commercial radio (“PCR”) solutions. We also deliver LTE solutions for public safety, government and commercial users, including infrastructure and devices operating in 700 MHz, 900 MHz and Citizens’ Broadband Radio Service (“CBRS”) frequencies. Primary sources of revenue for this technology come from selling devices and building telecommunications networks, including infrastructure, installation and integration with our customers’ technology environments. Our technology enables voice and multimedia collaborations across different two-way radio, WiFi or public LTE and private broadband networks. We believe that first responders continue to trust LMR communications because they are purpose-built and designed for reliability, availability, security and resiliency to withstand the most challenging conditions. By adding broadband data capabilities to our two-way radios, we strive to provide our customers greater functionality and access to the information and data they need in their workflows. Examples of such functionality include application services such as GPS location to better protect lone workers and over-the-air programming and updates to optimize device uptime. The LMR technology within the Products and Systems Integration segment represented 86% of the net sales of the total segment in 2020. Video Security and Analytics Our Video Security and Analytics technology includes network video management infrastructure, fixed security and mobile video cameras (body-worn and in-vehicle) and access control solutions. We deploy video security solutions to thousands of government and commercial customers around the world including school campuses, transportation systems, healthcare centers, public venues, utilities, prisons, factories, casinos, airports, financial institutions, government facilities, state and local law enforcement agencies and retailers. Organizations such as these utilize video security to enable continuous monitoring that can improve situational awareness, particularly across large areas, and to visually verify critical events or incidents in real-time or investigate after they happen. 27 Our view is that government and public safety customers in particular are increasingly turning to video security technologies, including fixed street cameras, in-vehicle cameras and body-worn cameras, to increase visibility, accountability and safety for citizens, communities and first responders alike. We have built our video security and analytics technology through strategic acquisitions. We acquired Avigilon Corporation (“Avigilon”) in 2018. Avigilon access control solutions, in addition to cameras, sensors and infrastructure embedded with advanced video analytics, are designed to be simple and easy to use. We expanded our fixed video security technology through our acquisitions of IndigoVision Group plc and Pelco, Inc. in 2020. We grew our mobile video security technology in 2019 through our acquisitions of WatchGuard Inc., which provides body-worn cameras and in-vehicle video systems for North America law enforcement agencies, and Edesix Ltd (acquired as part of the VaaS International Holdings acquisition), a provider of body-worn cameras in Europe for both law enforcement and commercial markets. The Video Security and Analytics technology within the Products and Systems Integration segment represented 14% of the net sales of the total segment in 2020. Software and Services Segment In 2020, the segment’s net sales were $2.8 billion, representing 37% of our consolidated net sales. LMR Mission Critical Communications LMR Mission Critical Communications services include support and managed services, which offer a broad continuum of support for our customers. Support services include repair and replacement, technical support and preventative maintenance, and more advanced offerings such as system monitoring, software updates and cybersecurity services. Managed services range from partial to full operational support of customer-owned or Motorola Solutions-owned networks. Our customers’ systems often have multi-year or multi-decade lifespans that help drive demand for software upgrades, device and infrastructure refresh opportunities, as well as additional services to monitor, manage, maintain and secure these complex networks and solutions. We strive to deliver services to our customers that help improve performance across their systems, devices and applications for greater safety and productivity. Given the mission-critical nature of our customers’ LMR networks, availability, security and resiliency are imperative, along with keeping pace with technological advancements. We have a comprehensive approach to system upgrades that addresses hardware, software and implementation services. As new system releases become available, we work with our customers to upgrade software, hardware, or both, with respect to site controllers, comparators, routers, LAN switches, servers, dispatch consoles, logging equipment, network management terminals, network security devices such as firewalls and intrusion detection sensors, and more, on-site or remotely. The LMR technology within the Software and Services segment represented 72% of the net sales of the total segment in 2020. Command Center Software Our Command Center Software suite, CommandCentral, supports the complex process of the public safety workflow from "911 call to case closure," which involves an array of roles from the moment a citizen dials 911, such as dispatchers who route calls to police, fire and emergency medical services, first responders in the field, intelligence analysts who manage real-time operations, records specialists who preserve the integrity of information and evidence, crime analysts who identify patterns and accelerate investigations, and corrections officers who oversee jail and inmate management. CommandCentral software supports these roles through the three phases of incident response: incident awareness, incident management and post-incident resolution. Incident awareness software includes community engagement applications for tip submissions, crime mapping and evidence submission, and 911 call-handling software (including multimedia) and next-generation core services for 911 call routing. Incident management software includes computer aided dispatch (“CAD”) for dispatch and coordinating first response, situational awareness software that shows a single, real-time view of video feeds and other alerts on a map, and field response and reporting to help frontline personnel collaborate, manage incident activity and file reports from the field. Post-incident resolution software includes centralized records and evidence management for record-keeping and judicial sharing, analytics including license plate recognition, and jail and inmate management to streamline the process and enable secure inter-agency information sharing. As the public safety market continues to evolve toward software offerings that more efficiently run their operations, reduce response times and increase officer availability, we have focused on providing cloud-based software-as-a service (“SaaS”) with ancillary implementation and managed services in addition to on-premises solutions. Our PremierOne Cloud suite, hosted in Microsoft Azure Government, includes CAD, mobile and records in a single, integrated cloud-based offering. We believe that cloud deployment delivers agencies key benefits, including faster deployment, increased security, rapid scaling in the event of an emergency and a secure investment that keeps pace as technology advances. Another area of public safety evolution is increasing adoption of Next Generation 911 Core Services (“NGCS”), a group of products and services needed to create infrastructure connectivity in order to process a 911 call using Next Generation (“NG”) technology. The NG infrastructure is an Emergency Service IP Network ("ESInet"), which can carry voice, data and multimedia. ESInet enables 911 call takers at public safety answering points to respond to text, video and data. Our NGCS can be offered as a managed service and includes call routing, ESInet, location services, Geographic Information Services, cybersecurity and our continuous network and security operations center dedicated to public safety. We believe that our solution is differentiated 28 through its integration with our CommandCentral software suite to simplify the agency’s workflow and ensure better incident management and real-time intelligence. Additional Command Center Software includes interoperability software that ensures communication is not limited by coverage area, network technology or device type. Our solutions, including Kodiak, WAVE PTX and CriticalConnect, enable interoperability among devices across multiple networks. For example, a two-way radio network can connect with an LTE network making it possible for individuals to communicate securely and more easily across technologies. The Command Center Software technology within the Software and Services segment represented 18% of the net sales of the total segment in 2020. Video Security and Analytics Video Security and Analytics software includes video network management software, digital evidence management software and advanced vehicle location data analysis software, including license plate recognition, each designed to complement respective video hardware systems. Our video network management software is embedded with artificial intelligence (“AI”)-enabled analytics to deliver operational insights to our customers by bringing attention to important events within their video footage. Given the volume of video footage, we believe this is critical to monitor and manage to deliver meaningful, action-oriented insights. For example, AI-enabled analytics can detect unusual behavior such as a person at a facility out-of-hours, locate a missing child with our Appearance Search feature at a theme park, flag a blacklisted vehicle through license plate recognition at a school, or send an alert through access control if doors are propped open at a hospital. Video Security and Analytics services include our video-as-service offering for law enforcement, simplifying procurement by bundling hardware and software into a single subscription. Body-worn cameras and in-car video systems can be paired with either on-premises or cloud-based digital evidence management software and complementary command center software products. Additionally, Avigilon fixed video systems connected to Avigilon Cloud Services (“ACS”) provide our customers with the ability to securely access video across their sites from a remote/central monitoring location and more easily integrate with their other systems. The Video Security and Analytics technology within the Software and Services segment represented 10% of the net sales of the total segment in 2020. 2020 Financial Results • Net sales were $7.4 billion in 2020 compared to $7.9 billion in 2019. • Operating earnings were $1.4 billion in 2020 compared to $1.6 billion in 2019. • Net earnings attributable to Motorola Solutions, Inc. were $949 million, or $5.45 per diluted common share in 2020, compared to earnings of $868 million, or $4.95 per diluted common share in 2019. • Our operating cash flow was $1.6 billion in 2020 compared to $1.8 billion in 2019. • We returned over $1.0 billion of capital to shareholders, in the form of $612 million in share repurchases and $436 million in dividends in 2020. • We increased our quarterly dividend by 11% to $0.71 per share in November 2020. • We ended 2020 with a backlog position of $11.4 billion, up $175 million compared to 2019. Segment Financial Highlights • In the Products and Systems Integration segment, net sales were $4.6 billion in 2020, a decrease of $695 million, or 13%, compared to $5.3 billion in 2019. On a geographic basis, net sales decreased in both North America and International primarily driven by lower public safety LMR and PCR, partially offset by growth in Video Security and Analytics. Operating earnings were $656 million in 2020, compared to $994 million in 2019. Operating margins decreased in 2020 to 14.2% from 18.7% in 2019 primarily due to lower sales and gross margin contribution, partially offset by lower operating expenses primarily driven by: lower employee incentive costs, indirect expenses, and travel expenses, and a $50 million gain from the sale of a manufacturing facility in Europe. The overall reduction in operating expenses was partially offset by: (i) $23 million higher reorganization of business expenses, (ii) $11 million higher share-based compensation expenses, and (iii) higher operating expenses from acquisitions. • In the Software and Services segment, net sales were $2.8 billion in 2020, an increase of $222 million, or 9%, compared to $2.6 billion in 2019. On a geographic basis, net sales increased in both North America and International. Operating earnings were $727 million in 2020, compared to $587 million in 2019. Operating margin increased in 2020 to 26.2% from 22.9% in 2019 due to higher sales and gross margin contribution, along with reduced operating expenses primarily driven by operating leverage, inclusive of lower employee incentive costs and travel expenses. The overall reduction in operating expenses was partially offset by: (i) $6 million higher reorganization of business expenses, (ii) $5 million higher intangible amortization driven by acquisitions, and (iii) higher operating expenses from acquisitions. 29 COVID-19 In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, there have been a broad number of governmental and commercial actions taken to limit the spread of the virus, including social distancing measures, stay-at-home orders, travel restrictions, business shutdowns and slowdowns. These actions have resulted in a significant decline in global economic activity, and accordingly, we have assessed the impact on our employees, customers, communities, liquidity and financial position. We continue to abide by a number of measures in an effort to protect the health and well-being of our employees and customers, including having office workers work remotely, suspending employee travel, withdrawing from certain industry events, increasing the frequency of cleaning services, encouraging face coverings, and using thermal scanning. We have continued to ensure customer continuity by fulfilling several emergency orders, completing remote software maintenance where possible, and continuing to service our mission-critical networks on-site as needed to ensure seamless operations. Our sales teams have also continued to improve virtual engagement with our customers. Additionally, our engineering teams have adapted our solutions offerings to equip our customers with the latest technology in an effort to protect their workplaces from the spread of COVID-19. Specifically, in Video Security and Analytics, we have adapted our software and hardware offerings to provide analytics addressing occupancy counting, face mask detection, and thermal detection capabilities. We believe our existing balances of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, along with other short-term liquidity arrangements, will be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements associated with our existing operations. During the first quarter of 2020, we proactively withdrew $800 million from our unsecured revolving credit facility, which we repaid during the twelve months ended December 31, 2020. We were in compliance with all applicable covenants in our unsecured revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2020. Additionally, we have no bond maturities until 2023. We continue to evaluate our financial position during this economic slowdown. Specifically, in our Software and Services segment, with the largely recurring nature of the business and our strong backlog position, we continue to expect that the impacts on net sales and operating margin will be limited in 2021. In our Products and Systems Integration segment, the impacts on net sales and operating margin were more significant during the first half of 2020 with reduced impact in the fourth quarter of 2020. Reduced demand, particularly in our PCR business, as well as delays in engagements with our state and local customers led to a decline in net sales for the Product and Systems Integration segment in 2020 as compared to 2019. Within the Products and Systems Integration segment, we are encouraged by strong LMR backlog, and the resiliency of the Video Security and Analytics technology, that has experienced growth in the year, as we enter 2021. In 2021, COVID-19 may continue to have an impact on net sales and operating margins within our Products and Systems Integration segment. However, given the prioritization of mission critical communication solutions, we do not anticipate funding at the state and local levels to have a material, negative effect on our expected net sales for 2021. We have also taken actions in a number of areas to reduce our operating expenses, including lower variable employee compensation, travel costs, contractor spend and reducing our real estate footprint to limit the negative effect on operating margins for 2020; however, a portion of these expenses, primarily variable compensation and certain travel expenses are likely to return in 2021. In addition, our supply chain partners have been supportive and continue to work to fulfill the necessary service levels to the Company and its customers. We continue to closely monitor the impact of COVID-19 on our business and geographies, including how it is impacting our customers, suppliers, and business partners. However, the future impact that COVID-19 will have on our financial position and operating results may be affected by numerous uncertainties, including the severity of the virus, the duration of the outbreak, governmental, business or other actions, impacts on our supply chain, the effect on customer demand, or changes to our operations. The impacts of a potential worsening of global economic conditions and the continued disruptions to, and volatility in, the credit and financial markets, as well as other unanticipated consequences, remain unknown. Further, additional outbreaks of COVID-19 in fiscal 2021 or beyond would cause many of the impacts described herein to return or be exacerbated. For further information, please see “Part 1. Item 1. Business” and “Part 1. Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K. The Company’s current expectations described above are forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ. 30 Recent Acquisitions 31 Change in Presentation During the first quarter of 2020, the Company restructured to realize more operational efficiencies, combining our Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"), Asia Pacific ("AP"), and Latin America ("LA") regions into one region, which is now reflected as "International." Accordingly, the Company now reports net sales in the following two geographic regions: North America, which includes the United States and Canada, and International. In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2020, the Company updated its presentation of major products and services to provide a more comprehensive view of our technologies within our reporting segments. Accordingly, the Company now reports net sales in the following three major products and services: LMR Mission Critical Communications, Video Security, and Command Center Software. The Company has updated all periods presented to reflect this change in presentation. Refer to Note 2 of our Consolidated Financial Statements in "Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K for further information. Looking Forward We continue to focus on growth opportunities across our portfolio of technologies. We expect continued growth within our global LMR installed base as a number of events such as natural disasters and large-scale incidents continue to reinforce the importance of having secure, reliable LMR for public safety. We believe our augmentation of LMR with broadband solutions will also drive growth, as we expect our customers will look to integrate valuable data capabilities. We expect to provide additional services to existing LMR customers as communication networks become more complex, software-centric and data-driven. As public safety needs continue to evolve, we anticipate growth opportunities within the command center as our Command Center Software suite covers the mission critical workflow, from 911 intake to case closure and management. We expect increased growth in our integrated software next generation core services and our cloud-based solutions, such as the PremierOne Cloud suite. Within Video Security and Analytics, we expect growth across our portfolio of fixed and mobile security solutions embedded with advanced analytics, and access control solutions. We believe drivers include expansion of traditional video sales beyond commercial customers to government and public safety customers. Additionally, we expect customers to continue to embrace analytics that convert video into data and the scalability of the cloud to run their operations, and we also expect continued expansion of offerings such as video-as-a-service and Avigilon Cloud Services. Finally, we anticipate new opportunities from the investments we are making to integrate our LMR, Command Center Software and Video Security and Analytics technologies into one unified ecosystem. We have made go-to-market and research and development investments in both Video Security and Analytics and our Command Center Software technologies with growth in mind. We have made a number of acquisitions and we see opportunities to continue to rationalize costs within both segments of our business, further driving operating leverage in our businesses. We believe our integrated ecosystem for public and enterprise safety can enable strong collaboration by removing system silos, simplifying management and automating workflows. Refer to “COVID-19” set forth in “Part II. Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K for a discussion of our outlook with respect to the continuing impact of COVID-19 on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 32 Results of Operations *    Amounts attributable to Motorola Solutions, Inc. common shareholders. **    Percentages may not add due to rounding. Geographic Market Sales by Locale of End Customer 33 Results of Operations—2020 Compared to 2019 Net Sales The Products and Systems Integration segment’s net sales represented 63% of our net sales in 2020, compared to 68% in 2019. The Software and Services segment’s net sales represented 37% of our net sales in 2020, compared to 32% in 2019. Net sales decreased by $473 million, or 6%, compared to 2019. The 13% decline in net sales within the Products and Systems Integration segment was driven by an 11% decline in the North America region and an 18% decline in the International region. The 9% increase in the Software and Services segment was driven by a 12% increase in the North America region and a 4% increase in the International region. The decrease in net sales included: • a decline in the Products and Systems Integration segment, inclusive of $119 million of revenue from acquisitions, driven by a decline in public safety LMR and PCR, partially offset by growth in Video Security; • growth in the Software and Services segment, inclusive of $84 million of revenue from acquisitions, driven by an increase in Video Security and Analytics, Command Center Software, and LMR services due to strong demand in the North America region; and • $12 million from unfavorable currency rates. Regional results included: • a 5% decline in the North America region, inclusive of revenue from acquisitions, driven by declines in public safety LMR and PCR, partially offset by growth in Video Security and Analytics, LMR services, and Command Center Software; and • a 9% decline in the International region, inclusive of revenue from acquisitions, driven by declines in public safety LMR and PCR, partially offset by growth in Video Security and Analytics, Command Center Software, and LMR public safety services. Products and Systems Integration The 13% decrease in the Products and Systems Integration segment was driven by the following: • 17% decline in public safety LMR and PCR, inclusive of revenue from acquisitions, in both the International and North America regions, primarily driven by a delay in customer engagement due to the COVID-19 pandemic; • partially offset by $143 million, or 29%, growth in Video Security and Analytics, inclusive of revenue from acquisitions, in both the International and North America regions; and • $3 million from favorable currency rates. Software and Services The 9% increase in the Software and Services segment was driven by the following: • 6% growth in LMR services, inclusive of revenue from acquisitions, driven by the North America region; • 36% growth in Video Security and Analytics, inclusive of revenue from acquisitions, driven by both the North America and International regions; • 7% growth in Command Center Software, inclusive of revenue from acquisitions, driven by both the North America and International regions; and • partially offset by $15 million from unfavorable currency rates. Gross Margin 34 Gross margin was 48.7% of net sales in 2020 and 49.8% of net sales in 2019. The decrease was driven by: • lower gross margin contribution in Products and Systems Integration segment as a result of the decline in public safety LMR and PCR sales, as well as lower margins on projects driven by a delay in engagements from COVID-19, partially offset by lower incentive costs; and • partially offset by higher gross margins within the Software and Services segment, inclusive of acquisitions, primarily driven by higher gross margin contribution from sales growth, driven by improved mix of service offerings and lower travel and incentive costs. Selling, General and Administrative ("SG&A") Expenses SG&A expenses decreased 8% in 2020 compared to 2019. SG&A expenses were 17.4% of net sales in 2020 compared to 17.8% of net sales in 2019. The decrease in SG&A expenses was primarily due to reduced employee incentive costs, travel expenses, and indirect expenses. The overall reduction in SG&A expenses was partially offset by expenses associated with acquired businesses. Research and Development ("R&D") Expenditures R&D expenditures remained consistent in 2020 compared to 2019. R&D expenditures were 9.3% of net sales in 2020 and 8.7% of net sales in 2019. Other Charges Other charges decreased by $16 million in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily due to the following: • $50 million gain on sale of a manufacturing facility in Europe in 2020; • partially offset by $57 million of net reorganization of business charges in 2020 as compared to $40 million in 2019 (see Note 14 of our consolidated financial statements in “Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for further information); • $215 million of amortization of intangibles in 2020 compared to $208 million in 2019; • $9 million of legal settlements in 2020 compared to $3 million in 2019; • $9 million of charges for acquisition-related transaction fees in 2020 as compared to $3 million in 2019; and • $5 million of fixed asset impairments. Operating Earnings Operating earnings decreased $198 million, or 13%, compared to 2019. The decrease in Operating earnings was due to: • Products and Systems Integration decreased by $338 million from 2020 to 2019 driven by lower sales and gross margin contribution, partially offset by lower operating expenses driven by lower employee incentive costs, indirect expenses, and travel expenses. The overall reduction in operating expenses was offset by: (i) $23 million higher reorganization of business expenses, (ii) $11 million higher share-based compensation expenses, and (iii) higher operating expenses from acquisitions. 35 • Software and Services segment increased by $140 million from 2020 to 2019 driven by higher sales and gross margin contribution, along with reduced operating expenses due to operating leverage, inclusive of lower employee incentive costs and travel expenses. The overall reduction in operating expenses was partially offset by: (i) $6 million higher reorganization of business expenses, (ii) $5 million higher intangible amortization driven by acquisitions, and (iii) higher operating expenses from acquisitions. Interest Expense, net Interest expense, net in 2020 compared to 2019 remained relatively consistent due to a one-time receipt of interest income related to a tax refund and lower interest rates on debt outstanding, offset by lower interest income earned on cash due to lower interest rates. Gains (losses) on Sales of Investments and Businesses, net The net gains (losses) in 2020 and 2019 were primarily related to the sales of various equity investments. Other, net The change in net Other income in 2020 as compared to net Other expense in 2019 was primarily comprised of: • $359 million U.S pension settlement loss in 2019 (see Note 8 of our consolidated financial statements in “Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for further information); • $25 million gain on derivatives in 2020 compared to an $8 million loss on derivatives in 2019; • $4 million of investment impairments in 2020 compared to $18 million in 2019; • partially offset by $44 million of foreign currency losses in 2020 compared to $22 million in 2019; and • $56 million of net losses from repurchases of long term debt in 2020 as compared to a loss of $46 million in 2019 (see Note 5 of our consolidated financial statements in “Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for further information). Effective Tax Rate Income tax expense increased by $91 million in 2020 compared to 2019, for an effective tax rate of 18.8%, which is lower than the current U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% primarily due to: • $48 million of benefits due to the recognition of excess tax benefits on share-based compensation; and • $28 million of benefits due to the recognition of increased prior and current R&D tax credits. Our effective tax rate in 2019 was 13.0%, which is lower than the current U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% primarily related to: • a $77 million benefit due to the partial release of a valuation allowance to our U.S. foreign tax credit carryforward (see Note 7 of our consolidated financial statements in “Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for further information); and • $27 million of benefits due to the recognition of excess tax benefits on share-based compensation. 36 Results of Operations—2019 Compared to 2018 Net Sales The Products and Systems Integration segment’s net sales represented 68% of our consolidated net sales in 2019, compared to 69% in 2018. The Software and Services segment’s net sales represented 32% of our consolidated net sales in 2019, compared to 31% in 2018. Net sales increased by $544 million, or 7%, in 2019 compared to 2018. Net sales in the Software and Services segment increased approximately 14%, which was comprised of a 22% increase in the North America region and a 6% sales increase in the International region. Net sales in the Products and Systems Integration segment increased approximately 5%, which is comprised of a 10% increase in the North America region partially offset by an 8% decrease in the International region. The increase in net sales included: • an increase in the Products and Systems Integration segment, inclusive of $157 million of revenue from acquisitions, driven by growth in LMR and Video Security and Analytics; • growth in the Software and Services segment, inclusive of $155 million of revenue from acquisitions, driven by an increase in Video Security and Analytics, Command Center Software, and LMR services due to strong demand in the North America region; and • partially offset by $113 million from unfavorable currency rates. Regional results include: • 13% increase in the North America region, inclusive of revenue from acquisitions, across Video Security and Analytics, LMR, and Command Center Software within both the Products and Systems Integration and the Software and Services segments; and • 3% decline in the International region, inclusive of revenue from acquisitions, driven by declines in public safety LMR and PCR, partially offset by growth in Video Security and Analytics and Command Center Software. Products and Systems Integration The 5% growth in the Products and Systems Integration segment was driven by: • 57% growth in Video Security and Analytics, inclusive of acquisitions, driven by growth in the North America and International regions; • 1% growth in LMR, inclusive of acquisitions, driven by growth in the North America region and partially offset by a decline in the International region, which had two large system deployments completed in the Middle East and Africa in 2018; and • partially offset by $54 million foreign currency headwinds. Software and Services The 14% growth in the Software and Services segment was driven by the following: • 223% growth in Video Security and Analytics, inclusive of acquisitions, driven by both the North America and International regions; • 26% growth in Command Center Software, inclusive of acquisitions, driven by both the North America and International regions; • 4% growth in LMR services, inclusive of acquisitions, primarily driven by the North America region; and • partially offset by $59 million of foreign currency headwinds. 37 Gross Margin Gross margin was 49.8% of net sales in 2019 and 47.4% of net sales in 2018. The increase was driven by: • higher margins in the Products and Systems Integration segment primarily driven by a favorable mix in LMR devices; and • higher margins within the Software and Services segment primarily driven by higher software sales, inclusive of acquisitions. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses SG&A expenses increased 12% in 2019 compared to 2018. SG&A expenses were 17.8% of net sales in 2019 compared to 17.1% of net sales in 2018. The increase in SG&A expenses was primarily due to increased expenses associated with acquired businesses, including the deployment of additional sales resources to support Video Security and Analytics growth initiatives. Research and Development Expenditures R&D expenditures increased 8% in 2019 compared to 2018. R&D expenditures were 8.7% of net sales in each of 2019 and 2018. The increase in R&D expenses was primarily due to acquired businesses, specifically in Video Security and Analytics, as well as new product launches. Other Charges The decrease in Other charges in 2019 as compared to 2018 can be summarized as follows: • a $57 million charge in 2018 related to ongoing remediation efforts for an environmental clean-up incurred by a legacy business (see Note 4 of our consolidated financial statements in “Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for further information); • $40 million of net reorganization of business charges in 2019 as compared to $61 million in 2018 (see Note 14 of our consolidated financial statements in “Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for further information); • $3 million of charges for acquisition-related transaction fees in 2019 as compared to $24 million in 2018; partially offset by • $208 million of amortization of intangibles in 2019 compared to $188 million in 2018. Operating Earnings Operating earnings increased by $326 million, or 26%, in 2019 compared to 2018. The increase in Operating earnings was due to: 38 • Software and Services segment increased by $186 million from 2018 to 2019 due to higher sales and gross margin, as well as lower operating expenses driven by: (i) $17 million lower environmental reserve expenses, (ii) $11 million lower acquisition-related transaction fees, and (iii) $5 million lower reorganization of business expenses, partially offset by $4 million higher intangible amortization driven by acquisitions. • Products and Systems Integration increased by $140 million from 2018 to 2019 due to higher sales and gross margin, as well as lower operating expenses driven by: (i) $40 million lower environmental reserve expenses, (ii) $15 million lower reorganization of business expenses, and (iii) $10 million lower acquisition-related transaction fees, partially offset by $16 million higher intangible amortization driven by acquisitions. Interest Expense, net Interest expense, net in 2019 compared to 2018 remained relatively consistent given the similar average outstanding debt balance. Gains (losses) on Sales of Investments and Businesses, net The net gains in 2019 and 2018 were primarily related to the sales of various equity investments. Other, net The change in net Other expense in 2019 as compared to net Other income in 2018 was primarily comprised of: • $359 million U.S. pension settlement loss in 2019 (see Note 8 of our consolidated financial statements in “Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for further information); and • $46 million of net losses from repurchases of long term debt as compared to a gain of $6 million in 2018 (see Note 5 of our consolidated financial statements in “Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for further information). Effective Tax Rate Income tax expense decreased by $3 million in 2019 as compared to 2018, for an effective tax rate of 13.0%, which is lower than the current U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% primarily due to: • a $77 million benefit due to the partial release of a valuation allowance to our U.S. foreign tax credit carryforward (see Note 7 of our consolidated financial statements in “Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for further information); and • $27 million of benefits due to the recognition of excess tax benefits on share-based compensation. Our effective tax rate in 2018 was 12.1% which is lower than the current U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% primarily related to: • $79 million benefits related to updates of the provisional amounts on the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017; and • $30 million of benefits due to the recognition of excess tax benefits on share-based compensation. 39 Reorganization of Businesses In 2020, we recorded net reorganization of business charges of $86 million relating to the separation of 1,200 employees, of which 400 were indirect employees and 800 were direct employees. The $86 million of charges included $29 million recorded to Cost of sales and $57 million recorded to Other charges. Included in the aggregate $86 million are charges of $100 million for employee separation costs and $2 million for exit costs, partially offset by $16 million of reversals for accruals no longer needed. During 2019, we recorded net reorganization of business charges of $57 million relating to the separation of 700 employees, of which 500 were indirect employees and 200 were direct employees. The $57 million of charges included $17 million recorded to Cost of sales and $40 million recorded to Other charges. Included in the aggregate $57 million were charges of $64 million for employee separation costs and $5 million for exit costs, partially offset by $12 million of reversals for accruals no longer needed. During 2018, we recorded net reorganization of business charges of $120 million relating to the separation of 1,200 employees, of which 700 were indirect employees and 500 were direct employees. The $120 million of charges included $59 million recorded to Cost of sales and $61 million recorded to Other charges. Included in the aggregate $120 million are charges of $122 million for employee separation costs and $16 million for exit costs, partially offset by $18 million of reversals for accruals no longer needed. Also, included in the $120 million of charges for 2018 was a $44 million charge related to the announcement of our plan to close our Europe manufacturing facility which impacted 165 employees primarily within the Products and Systems Integration segment. The remainder of the initiatives impacted both of our segments and affected employees located in all geographic regions. The following table displays the net charges incurred by business segment due to such reorganizations: Cash payments for employee severance in connection with the reorganization of business plans were $85 million, $63 million, and $65 million in 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. The reorganization of business accruals for employee separation costs at December 31, 2020 were $79 million which we expect to pay within one year. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash and Cash Equivalents At December 31, 2020, $672 million of our $1.3 billion cash and cash equivalents balance was held in the U.S. and $582 million was held in other countries, with $203 million held in the United Kingdom. Restricted cash was $2 million at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019. In 2020, we repatriated $395 million in cash to the U.S. from international jurisdictions. We routinely repatriate a portion of non-U.S. earnings each year. We have recorded income tax expense for foreign withholding tax and distribution taxes on such earnings and, under current U.S. tax laws, do not expect to incur material incremental U.S. tax on repatriation. Where appropriate, we may also pursue capital reduction activities; however, such activities can be involved and lengthy. While we regularly repatriate funds, and a portion of offshore funds can be repatriated with minimal adverse financial impact, repatriation of some of these funds may be subject to delay due to local country approvals. Operating Activities The decrease in operating cash flows from 2019 to 2020 was driven by: • a reduction of operating earnings as a result of lower sales volume; • $43 million of higher income tax payments; and • partially offset by improvements in working capital. 40 The increase in operating cash flows from 2018 to 2019 was driven by: • $500 million debt-funded voluntary contribution to our U.S. pension plan in 2018 compared to no material contributions to our U.S. pension plan in 2019; • higher operating earnings in 2019 as compared to 2018; • $51 million settlement arising from a legacy business in 2018; and • partially offset by $19 million of higher tax payments and $17 million of higher interest payments in 2019 compared to 2018. Investing Activities The decrease in net cash used by investing activities from 2019 to 2020 was primarily due to: • $422 million decrease in acquisitions and investments, driven by acquisitions of $287 million in 2020 compared to $709 million in 2019; • $56 million increase in proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment driven by the sale of a European manufacturing facility in 2020; and • $31 million decrease in capital expenditures in 2020 compared 2019 due to lower expenditures for the Airwave and ESN networks. The decrease in net cash used by investing activities from 2018 to 2019 was primarily due to: • $455 million decrease in acquisitions and investments, primarily driven by acquisitions of $709 million in 2019 compared to $1.2 billion in 2018; • $79 million decrease in proceeds from sales of investments and businesses, driven by $60 million of excess cash received from Company-sponsored life insurance investments in 2018; and • partially offset by $51 million higher capital expenditures in 2019 compared 2018, due to higher spend associated with revenue-generating networks within our Software and Services segment. Financing Activities The decrease in cash used by financing activities in 2020 compared to cash used by financing activities in 2019 was driven by (also see further discussion in "Debt," "Credit Facilities," "Share Repurchase Program" and "Dividends" in this section below): • $400 million used for the repayment of the term loan in 2019; • $1.0 billion received from the issuance of 1.75% senior convertible notes due 2024 in 2019 which was subsequently used for the settlement of $1.1 billion of the 2.00% senior convertible notes, inclusive of the $326 million conversion premium in 2019; • $804 million net proceeds from the issuance of $800 million of 4.6% senior notes due 2029 in 2019, which was subsequently used to repurchase $614 million principal amount of long-term debt under a tender offer and $150 million principal amount for the 3.5% senior notes due 2021 for a total purchase price of $809 million in 2019; • $892 million net proceeds from the issuance of $900 million of 2.30% senior notes due 2030 in the third quarter of 2020, which was subsequently used to repurchase $552 million principal amount of 2.75% senior notes due 2022 and $293 million principal amount of long-term debt under a tender offer for a total purchase price of $897 million in 2020; • $800 million net proceeds from the draw on our syndicated, unsecured revolving credit facility during 2020 which was subsequently repaid during the year; and • partially offset by $612 million used for purchases under our share repurchase program in 2020 as compared to $315 million in 2019; and • $436 million cash used for the payment of dividends in 2020 as compared to $379 million in 2019. The increase in cash from financing activities in 2019, as compared to cash used in financing activities in 2018 was driven by: • $1.1 billion used for the settlement of the 2.00% senior convertible notes, inclusive of the $326 million conversion premium compared to the settlement of $369 million during 2018, inclusive of the $169 million conversion premium; • $400 million used in 2019 for the repayment of the term loan, compared to the $400 million of proceeds received from the issuance of the term loan in 2018; • $379 million of cash used for the payment of dividends in 2019 as compared to $337 million in 2018; • $315 million used for purchases under our share repurchase program in 2019 as compared to $132 million in 2018; and • partially offset by $1.0 billion received from the issuance of 1.75% senior convertible notes due 2024 in 2019; 41 • $700 million of proceeds received from the issuance of 4.6% senior notes due 2028 in 2018; • $804 million net proceeds from the issuance of $800 million of 4.6% senior notes due 2029 in 2019, which was subsequently used to repurchase $614 million principal amount of long-term debt under a tender offer and $150 million principal amount for the 3.5% senior notes due 2021 for a total purchase price of $809 million in 2019; and • $114 million of net proceeds from the issuance of common stock in connection with our employee stock option and employee stock purchase plans in 2019, as compared to $168 million in 2018. Sales of Receivables We may choose to sell accounts receivable and long-term receivables to third-parties under one-time arrangements. We may or may not retain the obligation to service the sold accounts receivable and long-term receivables. The following table summarizes the proceeds received from sales of accounts receivable and long-term receivables for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018: During the year ended December 31, 2020, we utilized a new cost-efficient receivable discounting facility to neutralize the impact of increased payment terms under a renegotiated and extended long-term contract in Europe resulting in accounts receivable sales of $228 million during the year ended December 31, 2020. The net benefit to our operating cash flow from the utilization of the new receivable discounting facility during 2020, was an inflow of $61 million when adjusted for amounts that would still be collected from the customer within the period in the absence of utilizing the discounting facility. The proceeds of our receivable sales are included in "Operating Activities" within our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. At December 31, 2020, the Company had retained servicing obligations for $983 million of long-term receivables, compared to $984 million of long-term receivables at December 31, 2019. Servicing obligations are limited to collection activities related to the sales of accounts receivables and long-term receivables. Debt We had outstanding long-term debt of $5.2 billion and $5.1 billion, including the current portions of $12 million and $16 million, at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively. In May of 2019, we issued $650 million of 4.60% senior notes due 2029. We received proceeds of $645 million after debt issuance costs and debt discounts. These proceeds were then used to repurchase $614 million in principal amount of our outstanding long-term debt for a purchase price of $654 million, excluding $3 million of accrued interest. After accelerating the amortization of debt issuance costs and debt discounts, we recognized a loss of $43 million related to this repurchase in Other, net within Other income (expense) in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. In August of 2019, we issued a follow-on of $150 million to the outstanding 4.60% senior notes due 2029 bringing the total outstanding principal to $800 million. We recognized net proceeds of $159 million after debt premiums and debt issuance costs. These proceeds were then used to repurchase the remaining $150 million principal amount of the 3.5% senior notes due 2021 for a purchase price of $155 million, excluding $2 million of accrued interest. After accelerating the amortization of debt issuance costs, we recognized a loss of $7 million related to this repurchase in Other, net within Other income (expense) in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. On September 5, 2019, in connection with our repurchase and settlement of the outstanding principal amount of 2.00% senior convertible notes due 2020 issued to Silver Lake Partners, we entered into an agreement with Silver Lake Partners to issue $1.0 billion of 1.75% senior convertible notes which mature in September 2024 (the "New Senior Convertible Notes"). Interest on these notes is payable semiannually. The notes are convertible anytime on or after two years from their issuance date, except in certain limited circumstances. The notes are convertible based on a conversion rate of 4.9140 per $1,000 principal amount (which is equal to an initial conversion price of $203.50 per share). In the event of conversion, we intend to settle the principal amount of the New Senior Convertible Notes in cash. We recorded a debt liability associated with the New Senior Convertible Notes by determining the fair value of an equivalent debt instrument without a conversion option. Using a discount rate of 2.45%, which was determined based on a review of relevant market data, we calculated the debt liability to be $986 million, indicating a $14 million discount to be amortized over the expected life of the debt instrument. The remaining proceeds of $14 million were allocated to the conversion option and accordingly, increased our additional paid-in capital. 42 In August of 2020, we issued $900 million of 2.30% senior notes due 2030. We recognized net proceeds of $892 million after debt issuance costs and debt discounts. A portion of these proceeds were then used to redeem $552 million in principal amount outstanding of the 3.75% senior notes due 2022 for a redemption price of $582 million, excluding $7 million of accrued interest. The remaining proceeds were used to repurchase $293 million in principal amount outstanding of our long-term debt under a tender offer, for a purchase price of $315 million, excluding $5 million of accrued interest. After accelerating the amortization of debt issuance costs and debt discounts, we recognized a loss of $56 million related to the redemption and the repurchase in Other, net within Other income (expense) in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. We have an unsecured commercial paper program, backed by the revolving credit facility described below, under which we may issue unsecured commercial paper notes up to a maximum aggregate principal amount of $2.2 billion outstanding at any one time. At maturity, the notes are paid back in full including the interest component. The notes are not redeemable prior to maturity. As of December 31, 2020, we had no outstanding debt under the commercial paper program. Credit Facilities As of December 31, 2020, we had a $2.2 billion syndicated, unsecured revolving credit facility scheduled to mature in April 2022 (the " "). The includes a $500 million letter of credit sub-limit with $450 million of fronting commitments. Borrowings under the facility bear interest at the prime rate plus the applicable margin, or at a spread above the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR"), at our option. Following the turmoil in the financial markets caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, we borrowed $800 million under the facility to bolster our cash holdings out of precaution in the first quarter of 2020, of which the full $800 million was repaid during the year ended December 31, 2020. The weighted average borrowing rate for amounts outstanding during the year ended December 31, 2020 was 1.70%. An annual facility fee is payable on the undrawn amount of the credit line. The interest rate and facility fee are subject to adjustment if our credit rating changes. We must comply with certain customary covenants including a maximum leverage ratio, as defined in the . We were in compliance with the financial covenants as of December 31, 2020. Share Repurchase Program Through a series of actions, the board of directors has authorized an aggregate share repurchase amount of up to $14.0 billion of our outstanding shares of common stock (the “share repurchase program”). The share repurchase program does not have an expiration date. As of December 31, 2020, we used approximately $13.4 billion of the share repurchase authority, including transaction costs, to repurchase shares, leaving approximately $649 million of authority available for future repurchases. Our share repurchases, including transaction costs, for 2020, 2019, and 2018 are summarized as follows: Dividends We paid cash dividends to holders of our common stock of $436 million in 2020, $379 million in 2019, and $337 million in 2018. On January 15, 2020, we paid an additional $120 million in cash dividends to holders of our common stock. Adequate Internal Funding Resources We believe that we have adequate internal resources available to fund expected working capital and capital expenditure requirements for the next twelve months as supported by the level of cash and cash equivalents in the U.S., the ability to repatriate funds from foreign jurisdictions, cash provided by operations, as well as liquidity provided by our commercial paper program backed by the $2.2 billion revolving credit facility. Refer also to “COVID-19” in this section of the Form 10-K for a discussion of the impact of COVID-19 on our liquidity. 43 Contractual Obligations and Other Purchase Commitments Summarized in the table and text below are our obligations and commitments to make future payments under long-term debt obligations, lease obligations, purchase obligations and tax obligations as of December 31, 2020. *Amounts included represent firm, non-cancelable commitments. Lease Obligations: We lease certain office, factory and warehouse space, land, and other equipment, principally under non-cancelable operating leases. Our future minimum lease obligations as of December 31, 2020 totaled $586 million. Rental expense, net of sublease income, was $128 million in 2020, $133 million in 2019, and $108 million in 2018. Purchase Obligations: During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate component supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that either allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by us or establish the parameters defining our requirements. In addition, we have entered into license agreements which are firm commitments and are not cancellable. We have entered into firm, non-cancelable, and unconditional commitments under such arrangements through 2025. The total payments expected to be made under these agreements as of December 31, 2020 were $209 million. We do not anticipate the cancellation of any of our take-or-pay agreements in the future and estimate that purchases from these suppliers will exceed the minimum obligations during the agreement periods. Tax Obligations: We had approximately $64 million of unrecognized income tax benefits relating to multiple tax jurisdictions and tax years as of December 31, 2020. Based on the potential outcome of our global tax examinations, or the expiration of the statute of limitations for specific jurisdictions, it is reasonably possible that the unrecognized tax benefits will change within the next twelve months. The associated net tax impact (within the next twelve months) on the effective tax rate, exclusive of valuation allowance changes, is estimated to be up to a $13 million tax benefit. Commitments Under Other Long-Term Agreements: We have entered into certain long-term agreements to purchase software, components, supplies and materials from suppliers which are not "take-or-pay" in nature. Most of the agreements extend for periods of one to three years (three to five years for software). Generally, these agreements do not obligate us to make any purchases, and many permit us to terminate the agreement with advance notice (usually ranging from 60 to 180 days). If we were to terminate these agreements, we generally would be liable for certain termination charges, typically based on work performed and supplier on-hand inventory and raw materials attributable to canceled orders. Our liability would only arise in the event we terminate the agreements for reasons other than “cause.” We outsource certain corporate functions, such as benefit administration and information technology-related services, under third-party contracts, the longest of which is expected to expire in 2023. Our remaining payments under these contracts are approximately $41 million over the remaining life of the contracts as of December 31, 2020; however, these contracts can be terminated. Termination would result in penalties substantially less than the remaining annual contract payments. We would also be required to find another source for these services, including the possibility of performing them in-house. As is customary in bidding for and completing certain projects and pursuant to a practice we have followed for many years, we have a number of performance bonds, bid bonds, standby letters of credit and surety bonds outstanding (collectively, referred to as “Performance Bonds”), primarily relating to projects with our government customers. These Performance Bonds normally have maturities of multiple years and are standard in the industry as a way to give customers a convenient mechanism to seek resolution if a contractor does not satisfy certain requirements under a contract. Typically, a customer can draw on the Performance Bond only if we do not fulfill all terms of a project contract. If such an occasion occurred, we would be obligated to reimburse the institution that issued the Performance Bond for the amounts paid. In our long history, it has been rare for us to have a Performance Bond drawn upon. Outstanding Performance Bonds totaled approximately $2.6 billion as of December 31, 2020 and $2.5 billion as of December 31, 2019. Any future disruptions, uncertainty, or volatility in bank, insurance or capital markets, or a change in our credit ratings could adversely affect our ability to obtain Performance Bonds and may result in higher funding costs to obtain such Performance Bonds. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements: At December 31, 2020, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition, changes in financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources, other than our obligation to settle the conversion option under the New Senior Convertible Notes described in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements “Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K. 44 Other Contingencies Potential Contractual Damage Claims in Excess of Underlying Contract Value: In certain circumstances, we enter into contracts with customers pursuant to which the damages that could be claimed by the customer for failed performance might exceed the revenue we receive from the contract. Contracts with these types of uncapped damages provisions are fairly rare, but individual contracts could still represent meaningful risk. There is a possibility that a claim by a counterparty to one of these contracts could result in expenses that are far in excess of the revenue received from the counterparty in connection with the contract. Indemnification Provisions: We may provide indemnifications for losses that result from the breach of general warranties contained in certain commercial and intellectual property agreements. Historically, we have not made significant payments under these agreements, nor have there been significant claims asserted against us. However, there is an increasing risk in relation to intellectual property indemnities given the current legal climate. In indemnification cases, payment by us is conditioned on the other party making a claim pursuant to the procedures specified in the particular contract, which procedures typically allow us to challenge the other party’s claims. In some instances we may have recourse against third-parties for certain payments made by us. Legal Matters: We are a defendant in various lawsuits, claims, and actions, which arise in the normal course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or liquidity. However, an unfavorable resolution could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the periods in which the matters are ultimately resolved, or in the periods in which more information is obtained that changes management's opinion of the ultimate disposition. Long-term Customer Financing Commitments Outstanding Commitments: Certain purchasers of our products and services may request that we provide long-term financing (defined as financing with a term of greater than one year) in connection with the sale of equipment. These requests may include all or a portion of the purchase price of the products and services. Our obligation to provide long-term financing may be conditioned on the issuance of a letter of credit in favor of us by a reputable bank to support the purchaser's credit or a pre-existing commitment from a reputable bank to purchase the long-term receivables from us. We had outstanding commitments to provide long-term financing to third-parties totaling $78 million at December 31, 2020 and at December 31, 2019. Critical Accounting Policies This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations discusses our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience, current economic and industry conditions and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. This forms the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes the following significant accounting policies require significant judgment and estimates. Revenue Recognition We enter into arrangements which consist of multiple promises to our customers. We evaluate whether the promised goods and services are distinct or a series of distinct goods or services. Where contracts contain multiple performance obligations, we generally allocate the total estimated consideration to each performance obligation based on applying an estimated selling price (“ESP”) as our best estimate of standalone selling price. We determine ESP by: (i) collecting all reasonably available data points including sales, cost and margin analyses of the product or services, and other inputs based on our normal pricing and discounting practices, (ii) making any reasonably required adjustments to the data based on market and Company-specific factors, and (iii) stratifying the data points, when appropriate, based on major product or service, type of customer, geographic market, and sales volume. We account for certain system contracts on an over-time basis, electing an input method of estimated costs as a measure of performance completed. The selection of the measurement of progress using estimated costs was based on a thorough consideration of alternatives of various output and input measures, including contract milestones and labor hours. However, we have determined that other input and output measures are not an appropriate measure of progress as they do not accurately align with the transfer of control on our customized systems. The selection of costs incurred as a measure of progress aligns the transfer of control to the overall production of the customized system. For system contracts accounted for over time using estimated costs as a measure of performance completed, we rely on estimates around the total estimated costs to complete the contract (“Estimated Costs at Completion”). Total Estimated Costs at Completion include direct labor, material and subcontracting costs. Due to the nature of the efforts required to be performed to meet the underlying performance obligation, determining Estimated Costs at Completion may be complex and subject to many variables. We have a standard and disciplined quarterly process in which management reviews the progress and performance of open contracts in order to determine the best estimate of Estimated Costs at Completion. As part of this process, management 45 reviews information including, but not limited to, any outstanding key contract matters, progress towards completion, the project schedule, identified risks and opportunities, and the related changes in estimates of costs. The risks and opportunities include management’s judgment about the ability and cost to achieve the project schedule, technical requirements, and other contract requirements. Management must make assumptions and estimates regarding labor productivity and availability, the complexity of work to be performed, the availability and cost of materials, and performance by subcontractors, among other variables. Based on this analysis, any quarterly adjustment to net sales, cost of sales, and the related impact to operating income are recorded as necessary in the period they become known. When estimates of total costs to be incurred on a contract exceed estimates of total revenue to be earned, a provision for the entire loss on the contract is recorded in the period in which the loss is determined. Retirement Benefits Our benefit obligations and net periodic pension costs (benefits) associated with our domestic noncontributory pension plans (“U.S. Pension Benefit Plans”), our foreign noncontributory pension plans (“Non-U.S. Plans”), as well as our domestic postretirement health care plan (“Postretirement Health Care Benefits”), are determined using actuarial assumptions. The assumptions are based on management’s best estimates, after consulting with outside investment advisors and actuaries. Accounting methodologies use an attribution approach that generally spreads the effects of individual events over the service lives of the participants in the plan, or estimated average lifetime when almost all of the plan participants are considered "inactive." Examples of “events” are plan amendments and changes in actuarial assumptions such as discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, and rate of compensation increases. There are various assumptions used in calculating the net periodic costs (benefits) and related benefit obligations. One of these assumptions is the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. The required use of the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets may result in recognized pension income that is greater or less than the actual returns of those plan assets in any given year. Over time, however, the expected long-term returns are designed to approximate the actual long-term returns.  We use a five-year, market-related asset value method of recognizing asset related gains and losses. We use long-term historical actual return experience with consideration of the expected investment mix of the plans’ assets, as well as future estimates of long-term investment returns, to develop our expected rate of return assumption used in calculating the net periodic pension cost (benefit) and the net postretirement health care benefit. Our investment return assumption for the U.S. Pension Benefit Plans was 6.85% in each of 2020 and 2019. Our investment return assumption for the Postretirement Health Care Benefits Plan was 6.90% in each of 2020 and 2019. Our weighted average investment return assumption for the Non-U.S. Plans was 4.66% in 2020 and 5.23% in 2019. A second key assumption is the discount rate. The discount rate assumptions used for the U.S. Pension Benefit Plans, the Non-U.S. Plans and the Postretirement Health Care Benefits Plan reflect, at December 31 of each year, the prevailing market rates for high-quality, fixed-income debt instruments that, if the obligation was settled at the measurement date, would provide the necessary future cash flows to pay the benefit obligation when due. Our discount rates for measuring our U.S. Pension Benefit Plan obligations were 2.63% and 3.32% at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Our weighted average discount rates for measuring our Non-U.S. Plans were 1.24% and 1.82% at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Our discount rates for measuring the Postretirement Health Care Benefits Plan obligation were 2.39% and 3.15% at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Under relevant accounting rules, when almost all of the plan participants are considered inactive, the amortization period for certain unrecognized losses changes from the average remaining service period to the average remaining lifetime of the participant. As such, depending on the specific plan, we amortize gains and losses over periods ranging from ten to thirty years. Prior service costs are being amortized over periods ranging from one to twenty-nine years. Benefits under all pension plans are valued based on the projected unit credit cost method. Valuation and Recoverability of Goodwill We assess the recorded amount of goodwill for recovery on an annual basis in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. Goodwill is assessed more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount. We continually assess whether any such events and circumstances have occurred, which requires a significant amount of judgment. Such events and circumstances may include: (i) adverse changes in macroeconomic conditions, (ii) adverse changes in the industry or market in which we transact, (iii) changes in cost factors negatively impacting earnings and cash flows, (iv) negative or declining overall financial performance, (v) events affecting the carrying value or composition of a reporting unit, or (vi) a sustained decrease in share price, among others. Any such adverse event or change in circumstances could have a significant impact on the recoverability of goodwill and could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. The goodwill impairment assessment is performed at the reporting unit level. A reporting unit is an operating segment or one level below an operating segment (referred to as a “component”). A component of an operating segment is a reporting unit if the component constitutes a business for which discrete financial information is available and segment management regularly reviews the operating results of that component. When two or more components of an operating segment have similar economic characteristics, the components are aggregated and deemed a single reporting unit. An operating segment is deemed to be a reporting unit if all of its components are similar, if none of its components is a reporting unit, or if the segment comprises only a single component. Based on this guidance, we have determined that our Products and Systems Integration and Software and Services segments are comprised of three and two reporting units, respectively. The Company performed a qualitative assessment to determine whether it was more-likely-than-not that the fair value of each reporting unit was less than its carrying amount for the fiscal years 2020, 2019, and 2018. In performing this qualitative assessment we assessed relevant events and 46 circumstances including macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, cost factors, overall financial performance, changes in enterprise value, and entity-specific events. For fiscal years 2020, 2019, and 2018, we concluded it was more-likely-than-not that the fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying value. Valuation of Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities We use the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, income tax expense is recognized for the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year. In addition, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Management makes assumptions, judgments and estimates to determine our current and deferred tax provision and also the deferred tax assets and liabilities. We evaluate our deferred tax assets quarterly to determine if adjustments to our valuation allowance are required based on the consideration of all available positive and negative evidence. Our assumptions, judgments and estimates for computing the income tax provision takes into account current tax laws, our interpretation of current tax law and possible outcomes of current and future audits conducted by foreign and domestic tax authorities. We believe such estimates to be reasonable; however, the final determination of certain audits could significantly impact the amounts provided for income taxes in our financial statements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See “Note 1: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in “Part II. Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K. 47