********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be considered and understood in the context of the following risk factors, which describe circumstances that may materially harm our future business, operating results or financial condition. The following discussion reflects our current judgment regarding the most significant risks we face. These risks can and will change in the future. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our business may be harmed by technological trends in our market or if we are unable to keep pace with rapid industry, technological and market changes. The growth in our industry and the markets in which we compete is driven by the increase in demand for storage and data management solutions by consumers, enterprises and governments around the world, and the purchases of storage and data management solutions to address this demand. The rise in cloud usage and commensurate spending is driving customers to search for cloud operations solutions to lower costs and speed development. Despite these growth drivers, our markets could be adversely impacted by customers delaying purchases in the face of technology transitions, increasing adoption of substitute products and/or services, increased storage efficiency, and/or changing economic and business environments. For example, in fiscal 2023, we observed a slowdown in demand as a result of continuing global economic uncertainty. Additionally, customer requirements are evolving in the nascent cloud operations market, which could also adversely impact our opportunity. While customers are navigating through their information technology (IT) transformations, which leverage modern architectures and hybrid cloud environments, they are also looking for simpler solutions, and changing how they consume IT. This evolution is diverting spending towards transformational projects and architectures like flash, hybrid cloud, cloud storage, IT as a service, converged infrastructure, and software defined storage. Our business may be adversely impacted if we are unable to keep pace with rapid industry, technological or market changes or if our evolved cloud strategy is not accepted in the marketplace. As a result of these and other factors discussed in this report, our revenue may decline on a year-over-year basis, as it did in fiscal 2017 and 2020. The future impact of these trends on both short- and long-term growth patterns is uncertain. If the general historical rate of industry growth declines, if the growth rates of the specific markets in which we compete decline, and/or if the consumption model of storage changes and our new and existing products, services and solutions do not receive customer acceptance, our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows could suffer. If we are unable to develop, introduce and gain market acceptance for new products and services while managing the transition from older ones, or if we cannot provide the expected level of quality and support for our new products and services, our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be harmed. Our future growth depends upon the successful development and introduction of new hardware and software products and services. Due to the complexity of storage software, cloud operations software, subsystems and appliances and the difficulty in gauging the engineering effort required to produce new products and services, such products and services are subject to significant technical and quality control risks. If we are unable, for technological, customer reluctance or other reasons, to develop, introduce and gain market acceptance for new products and services, as and when required by the market and our customers, our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. New or additional product and feature introductions, including new software and cloud offerings, such as Astra by NetApp, cloud operations services including Spot by NetApp, Instaclustr and Cloud Insights, and new hardware and all-flash storage products, including AFF A900 and AFF C-series, subject us to additional financial and operational risks, including our ability to forecast customer preferences and/or demand, our ability to successfully manage the transition from older products and solutions, our ability to forecast and manage the impact of customers’ demand for new products, services and solutions or the products being replaced, and our ability to manage production capacity to meet the demand for new products and services. In addition, as existing customers transition from older products and solutions to new software and cloud offerings, the transition could take longer than expected, or the customer could decide to delay the transition, either of which could result in non-renewal of the new offerings or affect our ability to manage and forecast customer churn and expansion rates for new software and cloud offerings, as we saw in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022. As new or enhanced products and services are introduced, we must avoid excessive levels of older product inventories and related components and ensure that new products and services can be delivered to meet customers’ demands. Further risks inherent in the introduction of new products, services and solutions include the uncertainty of price-performance relative to products of competitors, competitors’ responses to the introductions, delays in sales caused by the desire of customers to evaluate new products for extended periods of time and our partners’ investment in selling our new products and solutions. If these risks are not managed effectively, we could experience material risks to our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. 14 As we enter new or emerging markets, we will likely increase demands on our service and support operations and may be exposed to additional competition. We may not be able to provide products, services and support to effectively compete for these market opportunities. Our sales and distribution structure makes forecasting revenues difficult and, if disrupted, could harm our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our business and sales models make revenues difficult to forecast. We sell to a variety of customers directly and through various channels, with a corresponding variety of sales cycles. The majority of our sales are made and/or fulfilled indirectly through channel partners, including value-added resellers, systems integrators, distributors, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and strategic business partners, which include public cloud providers. This structure significantly complicates our ability to forecast future revenue, especially within any particular fiscal quarter or year. Moreover, our relationships with our indirect channel partners and strategic business partners are critical to our success. The loss of one or more of our key indirect channel partners in a given geographic area or the failure of our channel or strategic partners, including public cloud providers, to promote our products could harm our operating results. Qualifying and developing new indirect channel partners typically requires a significant investment of time and resources before acceptable levels of productivity are met. If we fail to maintain our relationships with our indirect channel partners and strategic partners, including public cloud providers, if their financial condition, business or customer relationships were to weaken, if they fail to comply with legal or regulatory requirements, or if we were to cease to do business with them for these or other reasons, our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be harmed. Increasing competition and industry consolidation could harm our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our markets are intensely competitive and are characterized by fragmentation and rapidly changing technology. We compete with many companies in the markets we serve, including established public companies, newer public companies with a strong flash focus, and new market entrants addressing the growing opportunity for application data management for Kubernetes and cloud operations. Some offer a broad spectrum of IT products and services (full-stack vendors) and others offer a more limited set of products or services. Technology trends, such as hosted or public cloud storage, SaaS and flash storage are driving significant changes in storage architectures and solution requirements. Cloud service provider competitors provide customers storage for their data centers on demand, without requiring a capital expenditure, which meets rapidly evolving business needs and has changed the competitive landscape. We also now compete in the emerging cloud operations market, where growth is being driven by increased customer cloud usage and commensurate spend, but customer requirements are still evolving. There is no clear leader in this market. Competitors may develop new technologies, products or services in advance of us or establish new business models, more flexible contracting models or new technologies disruptive to us. By extending our flash, cloud storage, converged infrastructure and cloud operations offerings, we are competing in new segments with both traditional competitors and new competitors, particularly smaller emerging storage and cloud operations vendors. The longer-term potential and competitiveness of these emerging vendors remains to be determined. In cloud and converged infrastructure, we also compete with large well-established competitors. It is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors might emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share or buying power. An increase in industry consolidation might result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as full-stack vendors for customers and achieve increased economies of scale in the supply chain. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or might establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, including some of our partners or suppliers. For additional information regarding our competitors, see the section entitled “Competition” contained in Part I, Item 1 – Business of this Form 10-K. Global economic and geopolitical conditions restrict our visibility and may harm our industry, business, and operating results, including our revenue growth and profitability, financial condition and cash flows. We operate globally and as a result, our business, revenues and profitability are impacted by global economic and market conditions, including, among others, inflation, slower growth or recession, changes to fiscal and monetary policy, higher interest rates, tax rates, economic uncertainty, political instability, warfare, changes in laws, reduced consumer confidence and spending, and economic and trade barriers. Such factors may limit our ability to forecast future demand for our products and services, contribute to increased periodic volatility in the computer, storage and networking industries at large, as well as the IT market, impact availability of supplies and could constrain future access to capital for our suppliers, customers and partners. The impacts of these circumstances are global and pervasive, and the timing and nature of any ultimate resolution of these matters remain highly uncertain. Adverse macroeconomic conditions, including those identified above, could materially adversely impact the demand for our products and our operating results amid customer concerns over slowing demand for their products, reduced asset values, volatile energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses, local and state governments, and sovereign nations. For example, in fiscal 2023, global economic uncertainty had, and could continue to have, a material adverse impact on the demand for our products. Additionally, constraints in our supply chain in 15 fiscal 2023, including higher component and freight costs, resulted, and may continue to result, in increased costs of revenue and delays in fulfillment of certain customer orders. Consequently, these concerns have challenged our business and we expect them to continue to challenge our business for the foreseeable future. All of these risks and conditions could materially adversely affect our future sales and operating results. Transition to consumption-based business models may adversely affect our revenues and profitability in other areas of our business and as a result may harm our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We offer customers a full range of consumption models, including the deployment of our software through our subscription and cloud-based Software as a Service (SaaS), and utility pricing and managed services offerings for our hardware and software systems. These business models continue to evolve, and we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or maintain the profitability of our consumption-based offerings. Additionally, the increasing prevalence of cloud and SaaS delivery models offered by us and our competitors may unfavorably impact the pricing of our on-premise hardware and software offerings and could have a dampening impact on overall demand for our on-premise hardware and software product and service offerings, which could reduce our revenues and profitability, at least in the near term. If we do not successfully execute our consumption model strategy or anticipate the needs of our customers, our revenues and profitability could decline. As customer demand for our consumption model offerings increases, we will experience differences in the timing of revenue recognition between our traditional hardware and software license arrangements (for which revenue is generally recognized in full at the time of delivery), relative to our consumption model offerings (for which revenue is generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement). We incur certain expenses associated with the infrastructure and marketing of our consumption model offerings in advance of our ability to recognize the revenues associated with these offerings. Due to the global nature of our business, risks inherent in our international operations could materially harm our business. A significant portion of our operations are located, and a significant portion of our revenues are derived, outside of the U.S. In addition, most of our products are manufactured outside of the U.S., and we have research and development, sales and service centers overseas. Accordingly, our business and future operating results could be adversely impacted by factors affecting our international operations including, among other things, local political or economic conditions, trade protection and export and import requirements, tariffs, local labor conditions, transportation costs, government spending patterns, acts of terrorism, international conflicts and natural disasters in areas with limited infrastructure and adverse public health developments. In particular, ongoing trade tensions between the U.S. and China could impact our business and operating results. For products we manufacture in Mexico, tensions between the U.S. and Mexico related to trade and border security issues could delay our shipments to customers, or impact pricing or our business and operating results. As a result of Russia’s actions in the Ukraine, numerous countries and organizations have imposed sanctions and export controls, while businesses, including the Company, have limited or suspended Russian operations. Russia has likewise imposed currency restrictions and regulations and may further take retaliatory trade or other actions, including the nationalization of foreign businesses. These actions could impact our supply chain, pricing, business and operating results and expose us to cyberattacks. In addition, due to the global nature of our business, we are subject to complex legal and regulatory requirements in the U.S. and the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and sell our products, including antitrust and anti-competition laws, and regulations related to data privacy, data protection, and cybersecurity. We are also subject to the potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation, or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than U.S. laws. Such factors could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We utilize forward and option contracts in an attempt to reduce the adverse earnings impact from the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on certain assets and liabilities. Our hedging strategies may not be successful, and currency exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cash flows. In addition, our foreign currency exposure on assets, liabilities and cash flows that we do not hedge could have a material impact on our financial results in periods when the U.S. dollar significantly fluctuates in relation to foreign currencies. Moreover, in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is a common business practice to engage in activities that are prohibited by NetApp's internal policies and procedures, or U.S. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. There can be no assurance that all our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, will comply with these policies, procedures, laws and/or regulations. Any such violation could subject us to fines and other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our acquisitions may not achieve expected benefits, and may increase our liabilities, disrupt our existing business and harm our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. 16 As part of our strategy, we seek to acquire other businesses and technologies to complement our current products and services, expand the breadth of our markets, or enhance our technical capabilities. For example, we acquired eight privately held companies from fiscal 2020 through the end of fiscal 2023. The benefits we have received, and expect to receive, from these and other acquisitions depend on our ability to successfully conduct due diligence, negotiate the terms of the acquisition and integrate the acquired business into our systems, procedures and organizational structure. Any inaccuracy in our acquisition assumptions or any failure to uncover or mitigate liabilities or risks associated with the acquisition, such as differing or inadequate cybersecurity and data privacy protection controls or contractual limitations of liability, and any failure to make the acquisition on favorable terms, integrate the acquired business or assets as and when expected, or retain key employees of the acquired company may reduce or eliminate the expected benefits of the acquisition to us, increase our costs, disrupt our operations, result in additional liabilities, investigations and litigation, and may also harm our strategy, our business and our operating results. The failure to achieve expected acquisition benefits may also result in impairment charges for goodwill and purchased intangible assets. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be harmed. Our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel and to advance our corporate strategy and preserve the key aspects of our corporate culture. Because our future success is dependent on our ability to continue to enhance and introduce new products and features, we are particularly dependent on our ability to hire and retain qualified engineers, including in emerging areas of technology such as artificial intelligence and machine learning. In addition, to increase revenues, we will be required to increase the productivity of our sales force and support infrastructure to achieve adequate customer coverage. Competition for qualified employees, particularly in the technology industry, is intense. We have periodically reduced our workforce, including reductions of approximately 6% and 8% announced in fiscal 2021 and the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023, respectively, and these actions may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified employees. Our inability to hire and retain qualified management and skilled personnel, particularly engineers, salespeople and key executive management, could disrupt our development efforts, sales results, business relationships and/or our ability to execute our business plan and strategy on a timely basis and could materially and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Many of our employees participate in our flexible work program (Thrive Everywhere), and work remotely on a full- or part-time basis. While Thrive Everywhere has been generally well received by employees, it may also create other challenges that impact our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including, but not limited to, some employees may prefer an in person work environment, decreased collaboration and communication among employees,  and reduced ability to maintain our corporate culture and workforce morale. If we are unable to effectively manage the risks and challenges associated with remote work, our business operations and financial performance may be adversely affected. Equity grants are a critical component of our current compensation programs as they support attraction and engagement of key talent and align employee interests with shareholders. A competitive broad-based equity compensation program is essential to compete for talent in both the hardware and software industries, in which competitors for talent provide a more significant portion of compensation via equity. If we reduce, modify or eliminate our equity programs or fail to grant equity competitively, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining critical employees. In addition, because of the structure of our sales, cash and equity incentive compensation plans, we may be at increased risk of losing employees at certain times. For example, the retention value of our compensation plans decreases after the payment of periodic bonuses or the vesting of equity awards. We often incur expenses before we receive related benefits, and expenses may be difficult to reduce quickly if demand declines. We base our expense levels in part on future revenue expectations and a significant percentage of our expenses are fixed. It is difficult to reduce our fixed costs quickly, and if revenue levels are below our expectations, operating results could be adversely impacted. During periods of uneven growth or decline, we may incur costs before we realize the anticipated related benefits, which could also harm our operating results. We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in engineering, sales, service and support, marketing and other functions to support and grow our business. We are likely to recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the related anticipated benefits, such as revenue growth, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect, which could harm our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Initiatives intended to make our cost structure, business processes and systems more efficient may not achieve the expected benefits and could inadvertently have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We continuously seek to make our cost structure and business processes more efficient, including by moving our business activities from higher-cost to lower-cost locations, outsourcing certain business processes and functions, and implementing changes to our business information systems. These efforts may involve a significant investment of financial and human resources and significant 17 changes to our current operating processes. For example, in fiscal 2024, we are implementing certain business information systems. We may encounter difficulties in implementing new business information systems or maintaining and upgrading existing systems and software. Such difficulties may lead to significant expenses or losses due to unexpected additional costs required to implement or maintain systems, disruption in business operations, loss of sales or profits, or disruption to our ability to timely and accurately process and report key aspects of our financial statements and, as a result, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. In addition, as we move operations into lower-cost jurisdictions and outsource certain business processes, we become subject to new regulatory regimes and lose control of certain aspects of our operations and, as a consequence, become more dependent upon the systems and business processes of third-parties. If we are unable to move our operations, outsource business processes or implement new business information systems in a manner that complies with local law and maintains adequate standards, controls and procedures, the quality of our products and services may suffer and we may be subject to increased litigation risk, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, we may not achieve the expected benefits of these and other transformational initiatives, which could harm our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We are exposed to credit risks, our investment portfolio may experience fluctuations in market value or returns, and our cash and cash equivalents could be adversely affected if the financial institutions in which we hold our cash and cash equivalents fail. We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. Credit ratings and pricing of our investments can be negatively affected by liquidity, credit deterioration, financial results, economic risk, political risk, sovereign risk or other factors. As a result, the value and liquidity of our investments and the returns thereon may fluctuate substantially. Unfavorable macroeconomic conditions, rising interest rates, or other circumstances could result in an economic slowdown and possibly cause a global recession. An economic slowdown or increased regional or global economic uncertainty may lead to failures of counterparties, including financial institutions, governments and insurers, which could result in a material decline in the value of our investment portfolio and substantially reduce our investment returns. We regularly maintain cash balances at large third-party financial institutions in excess of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insurance limit of $250,000 and similar regulatory insurance limits outside the United States. If a depository institution where we maintain deposits fails or is subject to adverse conditions in the financial or credit markets, we may not be able to recover all of our deposits, which could adversely impact our operating liquidity and financial performance. Similarly, if our customers or partners experience liquidity issues as a result of financial institution defaults or non-performance where they hold cash assets, their ability to pay us may become impaired and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including the collection of accounts receivable and cash flows. Our goals and disclosures related to environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters expose us to risks that could adversely affect our reputation and performance. We have established and publicly announced ESG goals, including our commitment to reducing our greenhouse gas emissions and increasing our representation of women in our global workforce and underrepresented minorities in our US workforce. These statements reflect our current plans and aspirations and are not guarantees that we will be able to achieve them. Our failure to accomplish or accurately track and report on these goals on a timely basis, or at all, could adversely affect our reputation, financial performance and growth, and expose us to increased scrutiny from our stakeholders, the investment community as well as enforcement authorities. Our ability to achieve any ESG objective is subject to numerous risks, many of which are outside of our control, including the changing regulatory requirements affecting ESG standards or disclosures, our ability to recruit, develop and retain diverse talent in our labor markets, the locations and usage of our products and the implications on their greenhouse gas emissions and the success of our organic growth and acquisitions. Standards for tracking and reporting ESG matters continue to evolve. Our selection of voluntary disclosure frameworks and standards, and the interpretation or application of those frameworks and standards, may change from time to time or differ from those of others. This may result in a lack of consistent or meaningful comparative data from period to period or between the Company and other companies in the same industry. In addition, our processes and controls may not always comply with evolving standards for identifying, measuring and reporting ESG metrics, including ESG-related disclosures that may be required of public companies by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and such standards may change over time, which could result in significant revisions to our current goals, reported progress in achieving such goals, or ability to achieve such goals in the future. If our ESG practices do not meet evolving investor or other stakeholder expectations and standards, then our reputation, our ability to attract or retain employees, and our attractiveness as an investment, business partner, acquiror or supplier could be negatively impacted. Further, our failure or perceived failure to pursue or fulfill our goals and objectives or to satisfy various reporting standards on a timely basis, or at all, could have similar negative impacts or expose us to government enforcement actions and private litigation. 18 Risks Related to Our Customers and Sales A portion of our revenues is generated by large, recurring purchases from various customers, resellers and distributors. A loss, cancellation or delay in purchases by any of these parties has negatively affected our revenues in the past, and could negatively affect our revenues in the future. A significant portion of our net revenues is generated through sales to a limited number of customers and distributors. We generally do not enter into binding purchase commitments with our customers, resellers and distributors for extended periods of time, and thus there is no guarantee we will continue to receive large, recurring orders from these customers, resellers or distributors. For example, our reseller agreements generally do not require minimum purchases, and our customers, resellers and distributors can stop purchasing and marketing our products at any time. In addition, unfavorable economic conditions may negatively impact the solvency of our customers, resellers and distributors or the ability of such customers, resellers and distributors to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. If any of our key customers, resellers or distributors changes its pricing practices, reduces the size or frequency of its orders for our products, or stops purchasing our products altogether, our operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely impacted. If we are unable to maintain and develop relationships with strategic partners, our revenues may be harmed. Our growth strategy includes developing and maintaining strategic partnerships with major third-party software and hardware vendors to integrate our products into their products and also co-market our products with them. A number of our strategic partners are industry leaders that offer us expanded access to segments in which we do not directly participate. In particular, strategic partnerships with public cloud providers and other cloud service vendors are critical to the success of our cloud-based business. However, there is intense competition for attractive strategic partners, and these relationships may not be exclusive, may not generate significant revenues and may be terminated on short notice. For instance, some of our partners are also partnering with our competitors, which may increase the availability of competing solutions and harm our ability to grow our relationships with those partners. Moreover, some of our partners, particularly large, more diversified technology companies, including major cloud providers, are also competitors, thereby complicating our relationships. If we are unable to establish new partnerships or maintain existing partnerships, if our strategic partners favor their relationships with other vendors in the storage industry or if our strategic partners increasingly compete with us, we could experience lower than expected revenues, suffer delays in product development, or experience other harm to our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our success depends upon our ability to effectively plan and manage our resources and restructure our business in response to changing market conditions and market demand for our products, and such actions may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale and adjust our business in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions. We recently reorganized our sales resources, which included changes and additions to our sales leadership team, to gain operational efficiencies and improve the alignment of our resources with customer and market opportunities. We expect to continue developing our sales organization and go-to-market model towards these goals throughout fiscal 2024. The reorganization of our sales resources, and ongoing evolution of our go-to-market model, could result in short or long-term disruption of our sales cycles, may not produce the efficiencies and benefits desired, and could harm our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We have and may in the future undertake initiatives that could include reorganizing our workforce, restructuring, disposing of, and/or otherwise discontinuing certain products, facility reductions or a combination of these actions. Rapid changes in the size, alignment or organization of our workforce, including our business unit structure, structure of our sales team, and sales account coverage, could adversely affect our ability to develop, sell and deliver products and services as planned or impair our ability to realize our current or future business and financial objectives. Any decision to take these actions may result in charges to earnings associated with, among other things, inventory or other fixed, intangible or goodwill asset reductions (including, without limitation, impairment charges), workforce and facility reductions and penalties and claims from third-party resellers or users of discontinued products. Charges associated with these activities could harm our operating results. In addition to the costs associated with these activities, we may not realize any of the anticipated benefits of the underlying restructuring activities. Reduced U.S. government demand could materially harm our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, we could be harmed by claims that we have or a channel partner has failed to comply with regulatory and contractual requirements applicable to sales to the U.S. government. The U.S. government is an important customer for us. However, government demand is uncertain, as it is subject to political and budgetary fluctuations and constraints. Events such as the U.S. federal government shutdown from December 2018 to January 2019 19 and continued uncertainty regarding the U.S. budget and debt levels have increased demand uncertainty for our products. In addition, like other customers, the U.S. government may evaluate competing products and delay purchasing in the face of the technology transitions taking place in the storage industry. If the U.S. government or an individual agency or multiple agencies within the U.S. government continue to reduce or shift their IT spending patterns, our operating results, including revenues may be harmed. Selling our products to the U.S. government, whether directly or through channel partners, also subjects us to certain regulatory and contractual requirements. Failure to comply with these requirements by either us or our channel partners could subject us to investigations, fines, and other penalties, which could materially harm our operating results and financial condition. As an example, the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) and the General Services Administration (GSA) have in the past pursued claims against and financial settlements with IT vendors, including us and several of our competitors and channel partners, under the False Claims Act and other statutes related to pricing and discount practices and compliance with certain provisions of GSA contracts for sales to the federal government. Although the DOJ and GSA currently have no claims pending against us, we could face claims in the future. Violations of certain regulatory and contractual requirements, including with respect to cybersecurity or affirmative action program requirements could also result in us being suspended or debarred from future government contracting. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. In response to increasing cybersecurity threats, the U.S. government has subjected IT vendors, including us, to certain additional requirements. As an example, the Executive Order on Improving the Nation’s Cybersecurity (EO 14028), released in May 2021, outlines the U.S. government’s plan to address software supply chain security for “critical software” and other software. NetApp’s products are categorized as critical software, requiring us to achieve compliance with the Secure Software Development Framework (SSDF) under NIST special publication 800-218. The current deadline for compliance is subject to the U.S. government’s finalization of their common attestation form, and any products that cannot attest to compliance with the SSDF may result in delays or inability to execute contracts with customers, particularly with government entities. If we do not achieve forecasted sales orders in any quarter, our operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be harmed. We derive a majority of our revenues in any given quarter from orders booked in the same quarter. Orders typically follow intra-quarter seasonality patterns weighted toward the back end of the quarter. If we do not achieve the level, timing and mix of orders consistent with our quarterly targets and historical patterns, or if we experience cancellations of significant orders, our operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be harmed. Our gross margins may vary. Our gross margins reflect a variety of factors, including competitive pricing, component and product design, and the volume and relative mix of revenues from product, software support, hardware support and other services offerings. Increased component costs, increased pricing and discounting pressures, the relative and varying rates of increases or decreases in component costs and product prices, or changes in the mix of revenue or decreased volume from product, software support, hardware support and other services offerings could harm our revenues, gross margins or earnings. Our gross margins are also impacted by the cost of any materials that are of poor quality and our sales and distribution activities, including, without limitation, pricing actions, rebates, sales initiatives and discount levels, and the timing of service contract renewals. The costs of third-party components comprise a significant portion of our product costs. While we generally have been able to manage our component and product design costs, we may have difficulty managing these costs if supplies of certain components become limited or component prices increase. Any such limitation could result in an increase in our product costs. An increase in component or design costs relative to our product prices could harm our gross margins and earnings. We are exposed to the credit and non-payment risk of our customers, resellers and distributors, especially during times of economic uncertainty and tight credit markets, which could result in material losses. Most of our sales to customers are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 days. We may experience increased losses as potentially more customers are unable to pay all or a portion of their obligations to us, particularly in the current macroeconomic environment when access to sources of liquidity may be limited. Beyond our open credit arrangements, some of our customers have entered into recourse and non-recourse financing leasing arrangements using third-party leasing companies. Under the terms of recourse leases, which are generally three years or less, we remain liable for the aggregate unpaid remaining lease payments to the third-party leasing companies in the event of end-user customer default. During periods of economic uncertainty, our exposure to credit risks from our customers increases. In addition, our exposure to credit risks of our customers may increase further if our customers and their customers or their lease financing sources are adversely affected by global economic conditions. Risks Related to Our Products and Services Any disruption to our supply chain could materially harm our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. 20 We do not manufacture certain components used in our products. We rely on third parties to manufacture critical components, as well as for associated logistics. Our lack of direct responsibility for, and control over, these elements of our business, as well as the diverse international geographic locations of our manufacturing partners and suppliers, creates significant risks for us, including, among other things: • Limited number of suppliers for certain components; • No guarantees of supply and limited ability to control the quality, quantity and cost of our products or of their components; • The potential for binding price or purchase commitments with our suppliers at higher than market rates; • Limited ability to adjust production volumes in response to our customers’ demand fluctuations; • Labor and political unrest at facilities we do not operate or own; • Geopolitical disputes disrupting our supply chain; • Impacts on our supply chain from adverse public health developments, including outbreaks of contagious diseases such as COVID-19; • Business, legal compliance, litigation and financial concerns affecting our suppliers or their ability to manufacture and ship components in the quantities, quality and manner we require; and • Disruptions due to floods, earthquakes, storms and other natural disasters, especially those caused by climate change, and particularly in countries with limited infrastructure and disaster recovery resources. Such risks have subjected us, and could in the future subject us, to supply constraints, price increases and minimum purchase requirements and our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be harmed. For example, the global shortage of critical product components in fiscal 2023 caused us to experience increased prices and extended lead times for certain critical components, such as semiconductors. Such shortages could reduce our flexibility to react to product mix changes and disrupt our production schedule. The risks associated with our outsourced manufacturing model are particularly acute when we transition products to new facilities or manufacturers, introduce and increase volumes of new products or qualify new contract manufacturers or suppliers, at which times our ability to manage the relationships among us, our manufacturing partners and our component suppliers, becomes critical. New manufacturers, products, components or facilities create increased costs and risk that we will fail to deliver high quality products in the required volumes to our customers. Any failure of a manufacturer or component supplier to meet our quality, quantity or delivery requirements in a cost-effective manner will harm our business, including customer relationships and as a result could harm our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for critical product components. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for drives and other components utilized in the assembly of our products, including certain single source suppliers, which has subjected us, and could in the future subject us, to price rigidity, periodic supply constraints, and the inability to produce our products with the quality and in the quantities demanded. Consolidation among suppliers, particularly within the semiconductor and storage media industries, has contributed to price volatility and supply constraints. When industry supply is constrained, or the supply chain is disrupted, as it was during the COVID-19 pandemic, our suppliers may allocate volumes away from us and to our competitors, all of which rely on many of the same suppliers as we do. Accordingly, our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows may be harmed. If a material cybersecurity or other security breach impacts our services or occurs on our systems, within our supply chain, or on our end-user customer systems, or if stored data is improperly accessed, customers may reduce or cease using our solutions, our reputation may be harmed and we may incur significant liabilities. We store and transmit, and sell products and services that store and transmit, personal, sensitive and proprietary data related to our products, our employees, customers, clients and partners (including third-party vendors such as data centers and providers of SaaS, cloud computing, and internet infrastructure and bandwidth), and their respective customers, including intellectual property, books of record and personal information. It is critical to our business strategy that our infrastructure, products and services remain secure and are perceived by customers, clients and partners to be secure. There are numerous and evolving risks to cybersecurity and privacy, including criminal hackers, state-sponsored intrusions, industrial espionage, human error and technological vulnerabilities. Material cybersecurity incidents or other security breaches could result in (1) unauthorized access to, or loss or unauthorized use, alteration, or disclosure of, such information; (2) litigation, indemnity obligations, government investigations and proceedings, and other possible liabilities; (3) negative publicity; and (4) disruptions to our internal and external operations. Any of these could damage our reputation 21 and public perception of the security and reliability of our products, as well as harm our business and cause us to incur significant liabilities. In addition, a material cybersecurity incident or loss of personal information, or other material security breach could result in other negative consequences, including remediation costs, disruption of internal operations, increased cybersecurity protection costs and lost revenues. Our clients and customers use our platforms for the transmission and storage of sensitive data. We do not generally review the information or content that our clients and their customers upload and store, and we have no direct control over the substance of the information or content stored within our platforms. If our employees, or our clients, partners or their respective customers use our platforms for the transmission or storage of personal or other sensitive information, or our supply chain cybersecurity is compromised and our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance, stolen or fraudulently obtained log-in credentials or otherwise, our reputation could be damaged, our business may be harmed and we could incur significant liabilities. Security industry experts and US Government officials continue to emphasize risks to our industry. Cyber attacks and security breaches continue to increase, and of particular concern are supply-chain attacks against software development. We anticipate that cyberattacks will continue to increase in the future. We cannot give assurance that we will always be successful in preventing or repelling unauthorized access to our systems. We also may face delays in our ability to identify or otherwise respond to any cybersecurity incident or any other breach. Additionally, we use third-party service providers to provide some services to us that involve the storage or transmission of data, such as SaaS, cloud computing, and internet infrastructure and bandwidth, and they face various cybersecurity threats and also may suffer cybersecurity incidents or other security breaches. Many jurisdictions have enacted or are enacting laws requiring companies to notify regulators or individuals of data security incidents involving certain types of personal data. These mandatory disclosures regarding security incidents often lead to widespread negative publicity. Moreover, the risk of reputational harm may be magnified and/or distorted through the rapid dissemination of information over the internet, including through news articles, blogs, social media, and other online communication forums and services. Any security incident, loss of data, or other security breach, whether actual or perceived, or whether impacting us or our third-party service providers, could harm our reputation, erode customer confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures, negatively impact our ability to attract new customers, cause existing customers to elect not to renew their support contracts or their SaaS subscriptions, or subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or liability, which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. There can be no assurance that the limitations of liability in our contracts would be enforceable or adequate or would otherwise protect us from any such liabilities or damages with respect to any particular claim. Our existing general liability insurance coverage, cybersecurity insurance coverage and coverage for errors and omissions may not continue to be available on acceptable terms or may not be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or our insurers may deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceeds available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. If a data center or other third-party who relies on our products experiences a disruption in service or a loss of data, such disruption could be attributed to the quality of our products, thereby causing financial or reputational harm to our business. Our clients, including data centers, SaaS, cloud computing and internet infrastructure and bandwidth providers, rely on our products for their data storage needs. Our clients may authorize third-party technology providers to access their data on our systems. Because we do not control the transmissions between our clients, their customers, and third-party technology providers, or the processing of such data by third-party technology providers, we cannot ensure the complete integrity or security of such transmissions or processing. Errors or wrongdoing by clients, their customers, or third-party technology providers resulting in actual or perceived security breaches may result in such actual or perceived breaches being attributed to us. A failure or inability to meet our clients’ expectations with respect to security and confidentiality through a disruption in the services provided by these third-party vendors, or the loss or alteration of data stored by such vendors, could result in financial or reputational harm to our business to the extent that such disruption or loss is caused by, or perceived by our customers to have been caused by, defects in our products. Moreover, the risk of reputational harm may be magnified and/or distorted through the rapid dissemination of information over the internet, including through news articles, blogs, social media, and other online communication forums and services. This may affect our ability to retain clients and attract new business. Failure to comply with new and existing laws and regulations relating to privacy, data protection, and information security could cause harm to our reputation, result in liability and adversely impact our business. Our business is subject to increasing regulation by various federal, state and international governmental agencies responsible for enacting and enforcing laws and regulations relating to privacy, data protection, and information security. For example, since the 22 effective date of the EU’s General Data Privacy Regulation in 2018, the Court of Justice of the European Union has issued rulings that have impacted how multinational companies must implement that law and the European Commission (EC) has published new regulatory requirements relating to cross-border data transfers applicable to multinational companies like NetApp. NetApp relies on a variety of compliance methods to transfer personal data of European Economic Area (EEA) individuals to other countries, including Binding Corporate Rules and Standard Contractual Clauses (SCCs). In June 2021, the EC imposed new SCC requirements which impose certain contract and operational requirements on NetApp and its contracting parties, including requirements related to government access transparency, enhanced data subject rights, and broader third-party assessments to ensure safeguards necessary to protect personal data transferred from NetApp or its partners to countries outside the EEA, requiring NetApp to revise customer and vendor agreements. In addition to the EU’s General Data Privacy Regulation, other global governments have adopted new privacy and data protection laws.  In particular, the United Kingdom’s exit from the EU has resulted in a parallel comprehensive privacy law known as the United Kingdom General Data Protection Regulation, which is similarly supplemented by other domestic data protection laws, such as the United Kingdom Data Protection Act 2018. The rapidly evolving regulatory framework in this area is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future.  In addition, changes in the interpretation and enforcement of existing laws and regulations could impact our business operations and those of our partners, vendors and customers. Customers, privacy advocates and industry groups also may propose new and different self-regulatory standards or standards of care that may legally or contractually apply to us, and these standards may be subject to change. These factors create uncertainty and we cannot yet determine the impact such future laws, regulations and standards, or changes to such laws, regulations, or standards, or to their interpretation or enforcement, may have on our business or the businesses of our partners, vendors and customers. In addition, changes in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations could impact our business operations and those of our partners, vendors and customers. Because the interpretation and application of many laws and regulations relating to privacy, data protection and information security, along with industry standards, are uncertain, it is possible that relevant laws, regulations, or standards may be interpreted and applied in manners that are, or are alleged to be, inconsistent with our data management practices or the features of our products. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us or our business partners to comply with federal, state or international laws and regulations relating to privacy, data protection, and information security, commitments relating to privacy, data protection, and information security contained in our contracts, self-regulatory standards that apply to us or that third parties assert are applicable to us, or our policies or notices we post or make available could subject us to claims, investigations, sanctions, enforcement actions and other proceedings, disgorgement of profits, fines, damages, civil and criminal liability, penalties or injunctions. Additionally, as a technology provider, our customers expect that we can demonstrate compliance with laws and regulations relating to privacy, data protection, and information security, and our inability or perceived inability to do so may adversely impact sales of our products and services, particularly to customers in highly-regulated industries. We have invested company resources in complying with new laws, regulations, and other obligations relating to privacy, data protection, and information security, and we may be required to make additional, significant changes in our business operations, all of which may adversely affect our revenue and our business overall. As a result of any inability to comply with such laws and regulations, our reputation and brand may be harmed, we could incur significant costs, and financial and operating results could be materially adversely affected, and we could be required to modify or change our products or our business practices, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. Our business could be subject to stricter obligations, greater fines and private causes of action, including class actions, under the enactment of new laws and regulations relating to privacy, data protection, and information security, including but not limited to, the European Union General Data Protection Regulation, which provides for penalties of up to 20 million Euros or four percent of our annual global revenues, UK General Data Protection Regulation, which provides for penalties up to 15 million Pounds or four percent of our annual global revenue, the California Consumer Privacy Act and the California Privacy Rights Act, and other U.S. state-based regulation. If our products or services are defective, or are perceived to be defective as a result of improper use or maintenance, our operating results, including gross margins, and customer relationships may be harmed. Our products and services are complex. We have experienced in the past, and expect to experience in the future, quality issues impacting certain products, and in the future, we could experience reliability issues with services we provide. Such quality and reliability issues may be due to, for example, our own designs or processes, the designs or processes of our suppliers, and/or flaws in third-party software used in our products. These types of risks are most acute when we are introducing new products. Quality or reliability issues have and could again in the future cause customers to experience outages or disruptions in service, data loss or data corruption. If we fail to remedy a product defect or flaw, we may experience a failure of a product line, temporary or permanent withdrawal from a product or market, damage to our reputation, loss of revenue, inventory costs or product reengineering expenses and higher ongoing warranty and service costs, and these occurrences could have a material impact on our gross margins, business and operating results. In addition, we exercise little control over how our customers use or maintain our products and services, and in some cases improper usage or maintenance could impair the performance of our products and services, which could lead to a perception of a quality or reliability issue. Customers may experience losses that may result from or are alleged to result from defects or flaws in our products and services, which could subject us to claims for damages, including consequential damages. 23 Changes in regulations relating to our products or their components, or the manufacture, sourcing, distribution or use thereof, may harm our business, operating results financial condition and cash flows. The laws and regulations governing the manufacturing, sourcing, distribution and use of our products have become more complex and stringent over time. For example, in addition to various environmental laws relating to carbon emissions, the use and discharge of hazardous materials and the use of certain minerals originating from identified conflict zones, many governments, including the U.S., the United Kingdom and Australia, have adopted regulations concerning the risk of human trafficking in supply chains which govern how workers are recruited and managed. We incur costs to comply with the requirements of such laws. Further, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational harm if our customers or other stakeholders conclude that we are unable to verify sufficiently the origins of the minerals used in the products we sell or the actions of our suppliers with respect to workers. As the laws and regulations governing our products continue to expand and change, our costs are likely to rise, and the failure to comply with any such laws and regulations could subject us to business interruptions, litigation risks and reputational harm. Some of our products are subject to U.S. export control laws and other laws affecting the countries in which our products and services may be sold, distributed, or delivered, and any violation of these laws could have a material and adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Due to the global nature of our business, we are subject to import and export restrictions and regulations, including the Export Administration Regulations administered by the Commerce Department’s Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) and the trade and economic sanctions regulations administered by the Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). The U.S., through the BIS and OFAC, places restrictions on the sale or export of certain products and services to certain countries and persons, including most recently to Russia, Belarus and portions of Ukraine. These regulations have caused the Company to stop selling or servicing our products temporarily in restricted areas, such as Russia, Belarus and portions of Ukraine. The BIS and OFAC have also placed restrictions on dealing with certain "blocked” entities, such as Russia’s federal security service (FSB), including the Company’s filing of notifications to the FSB for exporting certain products to Russia. Violators of these export control and sanctions laws may be subject to significant penalties, which may include significant monetary fines, criminal proceedings against them and their officers and employees, a denial of export privileges, and suspension or debarment from selling products to the federal government. Our products could be shipped to those targets by third parties, including potentially our channel partners, despite our precautions. If we were ever found to have violated U.S. export control laws, we may be subject to various penalties available under the laws, any of which could have a material and adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Even if we were not found to have violated such laws, the political and media scrutiny surrounding any governmental investigation of us could cause us significant expense and reputational harm. Such collateral consequences could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our failure to protect our intellectual property could harm our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our success depends significantly upon developing, maintaining and protecting our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions with employees, resellers, strategic partners and customers, to protect our proprietary rights. We currently have multiple U.S. and international patent applications pending and multiple U.S. and international patents issued. The pending applications may not be approved, and our existing and future patents may be challenged. If such challenges are brought, the patents may be invalidated. We may not be able to develop proprietary products or technologies that are patentable, and patents issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantages and may be challenged by third parties. Further, the patents of others may materially and adversely affect our ability to do business. In addition, a failure to obtain and defend our trademark registrations may impede our marketing and branding efforts and competitive condition. Litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary technology. Any such litigation may be time-consuming and costly. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the U.S. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate or our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products, or design around patents issued to us or other intellectual property rights of ours. In addition, while we train employees in confidentiality practices and include terms in our employee and consultant agreements to protect our intellectual property, there is persistent risk that some individuals will improperly take our intellectual property after terminating their employment or other engagements with us, which could lead to intellectual property leakage to competitors and a loss of our competitive advantages. We may be found to infringe on intellectual property rights of others. We compete in markets in which intellectual property infringement claims arise in the normal course of business. Third parties have, from time to time, asserted intellectual property-related claims against us, including claims for alleged patent infringement brought by non-practicing entities. Such claims may be made against our products and services, our customers’ use of our products 24 and services, or a combination of our products and third-party products. We also may be subject to claims and indemnification obligations from customers and resellers with respect to third-party intellectual property rights pursuant to our agreements with them. If we refuse to indemnify or defend such claims, even in situations in which the third-party’s allegations are meritless, then customers and resellers may refuse to do business with us. Patent litigation is particularly common in our industry. We have been, and continue to be, in active patent litigations with non-practicing entities. While we vigorously defend our ability to compete in the marketplace, there is no guarantee that, in patent or other types of intellectual property litigation, we will prevail at trial or be able to settle at a reasonable cost.  If a judge or jury were to find that our products infringe, we could be required to pay significant monetary damages and be subject to an injunction that could cause product shipment delays, require us to redesign our products, affect our ability to supply or service our customers, and/or require us to enter into compulsory royalty or licensing agreements. We expect that companies in the enterprise storage and data management, cloud storage and cloud operations markets will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Any such claims, and any such infringement claims discussed above, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause suspension of product shipments or product shipment delays, require us to redesign our products, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could materially and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. We rely on software from third parties, and a failure to properly manage our use of third-party software could result in increased costs or loss of revenue. Many of our products are designed to include software licensed from third parties. Such third-party software includes software licensed from commercial suppliers and software licensed under public open source licenses. We have internal processes to manage our use of such third-party software. However, if we fail to adequately manage our use of third-party software, then we may be subject to copyright infringement or other third-party claims. If we are non-compliant with a license for commercial software, then we may be required to pay penalties or undergo costly audits pursuant to the license agreement. In the case of open-source software licensed under certain “copyleft” licenses, the license itself may require, or a court-imposed remedy for non-compliant use of the open source software may require, that proprietary portions of our own software be publicly disclosed or licensed. This could result in a loss of intellectual property rights, increased costs, damage to our reputation and/or a loss of revenue. In addition, many of our products use open-source software. Such open-source software generally does not provide any warranty or contractual protection, and may be susceptible to attack from bad actors. Further, open-source software may contain vulnerabilities, which may or may not be known at the time of our inclusion of the software in a product. If a vulnerability in such software is successfully exploited, we could be subject to damages including remediation costs, reputational damage and lost revenues. Our failure to adjust to emerging standards may harm our business. Emerging standards may adversely affect the UNIX ® , Windows ® and World Wide Web server markets upon which we depend. For example, we provide our open access data retention solutions to customers within the financial services, healthcare, pharmaceutical and government market segments, industries that are subject to various evolving governmental regulations with respect to data access, reliability and permanence in the U.S. and in the other countries in which we operate. If our products do not meet and continue to comply with these evolving governmental regulations in this regard, customers in these market and geographical segments will not purchase our products, and we may not be able to expand our product offerings in these market and geographical segments at the rates which we have forecasted. Risks Related to Our Securities Our stock price is subject to volatility. Our stock price is subject to changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors' or analysts' valuation measures for our stock, changes in our capital structure, including issuance of additional debt, changes in our credit ratings, our ability to pay dividends and to continue to execute our stock repurchase program as planned and market trends unrelated to our performance. Our ability to pay quarterly dividends and to continue to execute our stock repurchase program as planned will be subject to, among other things, our financial condition and operating results, available cash and cash flows in the U.S., capital requirements, and other factors. Future dividends are subject to declaration by our Board of Directors, and our stock repurchase program does not obligate us to acquire any specific number of shares. However, if we fail to meet any investor expectations related to dividends and/or stock repurchases, the market price of our stock could decline significantly, and could have a material adverse impact on investor 25 confidence. Additionally, price volatility of our stock over a given period may cause the average price at which we repurchase our own stock to exceed the stock’s market price at a given point in time. Furthermore, speculation in the press or investment community about our strategic position, financial condition, results of operations or business can cause changes in our stock price. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions and the timing of announcements in the public market regarding new products or services, product enhancements or technological advances by our competitors or us, and any announcements by us of acquisitions, major transactions, or management changes may adversely affect our stock price. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate materially, which could harm our common stock price. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and will continue to do so, sometimes materially. All of the matters discussed in this Risk Factors section could impact our operating results in any fiscal quarter or year. In addition to those matters, we face the following issues, which could impact our quarterly results: • Seasonality, such as our historical seasonal decline in revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year and seasonal increase in revenues in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year; • Linearity, such as our historical intra-quarter customer orders and revenue pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter’s total orders and related revenue occur in the last month of the quarter; and • Unpredictability associated with larger scale enterprise software license agreements which generally take longer to negotiate and occur less consistently than other types of contracts, and for which revenue attributable to the software license component is typically recognized in full upon delivery. If our operating results fall below our forecasts and the expectations of public market analysts and investors, the trading price of our common stock may decline. There are risks associated with our outstanding and future indebtedness. As of April 28, 2023, we had $2.4 billion aggregate principal amount of outstanding indebtedness for our senior notes that mature at specific dates in calendar years 2024, 2025, 2027 and 2030. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future under existing credit facilities and/or enter into new financing arrangements. We may fail to pay these or additional future obligations, as and when required. Specifically, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service or refinance our debt, our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows will be harmed. Any downgrades from credit rating agencies such as Moody’s Investors Service or Standard & Poor’s Rating Services may adversely impact our ability to obtain additional financing or the terms of such financing and reduce the market capacity for our commercial paper. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors result in higher interest rates upon any potential future financing, then interest expense related to the refinance indebtedness would increase. In addition, all our debt and credit facility arrangements subject us to continued compliance with restrictive and financial covenants. If we do not comply with these covenants or otherwise default under the arrangements, we may be required to repay any outstanding amounts borrowed under these agreements. Moreover, compliance with these covenants may restrict our strategic or operational flexibility in the future, which could harm our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. General Risks Our business could be materially and adversely affected as a result of natural disasters, terrorist acts or other catastrophic events. We depend on the ability of our personnel, inventories, equipment and products to move reasonably unimpeded around the world. Any political, military, terrorism, global trade, world health or other issue that hinders this movement or restricts the import or export of materials could lead to significant business disruptions. For example, in recent years, the COVID-19 pandemic impeded the mobility of our personnel, inventories, equipment and products and disrupted our business operations. Furthermore, any economic failure or other material disruption caused by natural disasters, including fires, floods, droughts, hurricanes, earthquakes, and volcanoes; power loss or shortages; environmental disasters; telecommunications or business information systems failures or break-ins and similar events could also adversely affect our ability to conduct business. As a result of climate change, we expect the frequency and impact of such natural disasters or other material disruptions to increase. If such disruptions result in cancellations of customer orders or contribute to a general decrease in economic activity or corporate spending on IT, or directly impact our marketing, manufacturing, financial and logistics functions, or impair our ability to meet our customer demands, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our headquarters is located in Northern California, an area susceptible to earthquakes and wildfires. If any significant disaster were to occur there, our ability to operate our business and our operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely impacted. 26 We could be subject to additional income tax liabilities. Our effective tax rate is influenced by a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include among other things, fluctuations in our earnings and financial results in the various countries and states in which we do business, changes to the tax laws in such jurisdictions and the outcome of income tax audits. Changes to any of these factors could materially impact our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We receive significant tax benefits from sales to our non-U.S. customers. These benefits are contingent upon existing tax laws and regulations in the U.S. and in the countries in which our international operations are located. Future changes in domestic or international tax laws and regulations or a change in how we manage our international operations could adversely affect our ability to continue realizing these tax benefits. Many countries around the world are beginning to implement legislation and other guidance to align their international tax rules with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development’s Base Erosion and Profit Shifting recommendations and related action plans that aim to standardize and modernize global corporate tax policy, including changes to cross-border tax, transfer-pricing documentation rules and nexus-based tax incentive practices. As a result, many of these changes, if enacted, could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our effective tax rate could also be adversely affected by changes in tax laws and regulations and interpretations of such laws and regulations, which in turn would negatively impact our earnings and cash and cash equivalent balances we currently maintain. Additionally, our effective tax rate could also be adversely affected if there is a change in international operations, our tax structure and how our operations are managed and structured, and as a result, we could experience harm to our operating results and financial condition. For example, on August 16, 2022, the U.S. enacted the Inflation Reduction Act, which includes a corporate minimum tax and a 1% excise tax on net stock repurchases. We continue to evaluate the impacts of changes in tax laws and regulations on our business. We are routinely subject to income tax audits in the U.S. and several foreign tax jurisdictions. If the ultimate determination of income taxes or at-source withholding taxes assessed under these audits results in amounts in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. 27

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following is a discussion and analysis of our financial position as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 and results of operations and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022. This commentary should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto appearing under “Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Executive Overview Our Business Motorola Solutions is a global leader in public safety and enterprise security. Our technologies in Land Mobile Radio Communications ("LMR" or "LMR Communications"), Video Security and Access Control ("Video") and Command Center, bolstered by managed and support services, help make communities safer and businesses stay productive and secure. We serve more than 100,000 public safety and commercial customers in over 100 countries, providing “purpose-built” solutions designed for their unique needs, and we have a rich heritage of innovation focusing on advancing global safety for more than 90 years. We manage our business organizationally through two segments: “Products and Systems Integration” and “Software and Services.” Within these segments, we have principal product lines that also follow our three major technologies: LMR Communications, Video and Command Center. In January 2023, we began using Command Center as a naming convention, eliminating the "Software" descriptor from Command Center Software in order to inform investors that the Company has software components more broadly across all technologies; this name change does not require any financial information to be reclassified from previous periods. The Company has invested across these three technologies, evolving the Company’s LMR focus to purposefully integrate software, video security and access control solutions for public safety and enterprise customers globally. Our strategy is to generate value through the integration of critical communications, video security, access control and data and analytics. While each technology individually strives to make users safer and more productive, we believe we can enable better outcomes for our customers when we unite these technologies as one connected system. Our goal is to help remove silos between systems, unify data, streamline workflows, and simplify operations for our customers. Across all three technologies, we offer cloud-based solutions, cybersecurity services, software and subscription services as well as managed and support services. The schools we serve provide an example of our integrated technology ecosystem in action, which can be tailored to a school's unique needs and can span the end-to-end workflow for daily school operations as well as for emergencies. Video security and analytics such as license plate recognition can alert security and identify potentially suspicious activities, influencing building access. AI-powered video analytics can search video footage and help locate individuals based on physical descriptions. Software can help share real-time alerts and live video feeds with school officials and public safety agencies for incident response. Voice and data communications can notify school employees of security breaches, while mass notification and incident management platforms can help to coordinate an emergency response across school safety personnel, local law enforcement and administrators. Together, these technologies can help schools to detect, analyze, communicate and manage safety and security threats. The principal products within each segment, by technology, are described below: Products and Systems Integration Segment In 2022, the segment’s net sales were $5.7 billion, representing 63% of our consolidated net sales. LMR Communications Our LMR Communications technology includes infrastructure and devices for LMR, public safety Long Term Evolution (“LTE”) and enterprise-grade private LTE. Our technology enables voice and multimedia collaborations across two-way radio, WiFi and public and private broadband networks. We are a global leader in the two-way radio category, including Project 25 (P25), Terrestrial Trunked Radio ("TETRA") and Digital Mobile Radio (DMR), as well as other PCR solutions. We also deliver LTE solutions for public safety, government and commercial users, including infrastructure and devices operating in both low-band and mid-band frequencies, including Citizens’ Broadband Radio Service (CBRS) frequencies. Primary sources of revenue for this technology come from selling devices and building telecommunications networks, including infrastructure, installation and integration with our customers’ technology environments. We believe that public safety agencies and enterprises continue to trust LMR communications systems and devices because they are purpose-built and designed for reliability, availability, security and resiliency to withstand the most challenging conditions. By adding broadband data capabilities to our two-way radios, we strive to provide our customers with greater functionality and multimedia access to the information and data they need in their workflows. Examples include application services such as GPS location to better protect lone workers, job dispatch to share detailed information and over-the-air programming to optimize device uptime. Our view is that complementary data applications such as these enable government, public safety and enterprise 29 customers to work more efficiently and safely, while maintaining their mission-critical voice communications to remain connected and working in collaboration with others. The LMR technology within the Products and Systems Integration segment represent ed 82% of the net sales of the total segment in 2022. Video Our Video technology includes video management infrastructure, AI-video powered security cameras including fixed and certain mobile video equipment as well as on-premise and cloud-based access control solutions. Since 2018, we have developed our video security and access control business through investments in research and development and acquisitions, directly contributing to our growth strategy to serve as a leader in end-to-end video security solutions and supporting the expansion of our portfolio. We deploy video security and access control solutions to thousands of government and commercial customers around the world including school campuses, transportation systems, healthcare centers, public venues, utilities, prisons, factories, casinos, airports, financial institutions, government facilities, state and local law enforcement agencies and retailers. Organizations such as these utilize video security and access control to verify critical events or incidents in real-time and to provide data to investigate an event or incident after it happens. Our view is that government and public safety customers in particular are increasingly turning to video security technologies, including fixed and mobile cameras, to increase visibility, accountability and safety for citizens, communities and first responders alike. Additionally, our view is that government, public safety agencies and businesses are increasingly turning to scalable, cloud-based multi-factor authentication access control to make their facilities more secure. The Video technology within the Products and Systems Integration segment represented 18% of the net sales of the total segment in 2022. Software and Services Segment In 2022, the segment’s net sales were $3.4 billion, representing 37% of our consolidated net sales. LMR Communications LMR Communications services include support and managed services, which offer a broad continuum of support for our customers. Support services include repair and replacement, technical support and preventative maintenance, and more advanced offerings such as system monitoring, software updates and cybersecurity services. Managed services range from partial to full operational support of customer-owned or Motorola Solutions-owned networks. Our customers’ systems often have multi-year or multi-decade lifespans that help drive demand for software upgrades, device and infrastructure refresh opportunities, as well as additional services to monitor, manage, maintain and secure these complex networks and solutions. We strive to deliver services to our customers that help improve performance across their systems, devices and applications for greater safety and productivity. Given the mission-critical nature of our customers’ operational environments, we aim to design the LMR networks they rely on for availability, security and resiliency. We have a comprehensive approach to system upgrades that addresses hardware, software and implementation services. As new system releases become available, we work with our customers to upgrade software, hardware, or both, with respect to site controllers, comparators, routers, LAN switches, servers, dispatch consoles, logging equipment, network management terminals, network security devices such as firewalls and intrusion detection sensors, and more, on-site or remotely. Designed to complement our customers’ mission-critical LMR systems, our mission-critical cloud-based LMR technology is also available “as-a-service” with a multi-year subscription. We believe this technology increases resiliency and system reliability to help ensure users remain connected, even, for example, in natural disasters where physical communications infrastructure can be damaged. The LMR technology within the Software and Services segment represente d 67% o f the net sales of the total segment in 2022. Video Video software includes video management software, decision management and digital evidence management software, certain mobile video equipment, and advanced vehicle location data analysis software, including license plate recognition. Our software is designed to complement video hardware systems, proving end-to-end video security to strive to keep people, property and assets safe. Our video network management software is embedded with AI-enabled analytics to deliver operational insights to our customers by bringing attention to important events within their video footage. Given the growing volume of video content, we believe that analytics are critical to deliver meaningful, action-oriented insights. Our view is that these insights can help to proactively detect an important event in real time as well as reactively search video content to detect an important event that occurred in the past. For example, AI-enabled analytics can highlight unusual behavior such as a person at a facility out of hours, locate a missing child at a theme park with Appearance Search, flag a vehicle of interest at a school through license plate recognition, or send an alert through access control if doors are propped open at a hospital. 30 Our cloud technologies can offer organizations the ability to access, search and manage their video security and access control system from a centralized dashboard, accessible on devices such as smartphones and laptops. Additionally, our Avigilon fixed video systems can be cloud-administered by connecting to Avigilon Cloud Services (“ACS”), providing our customers with the ability to securely access video across their sites from a remote/central monitoring location. Our Video services include our "video-as-a-service" subscription-based offerings for law enforcement, simplifying procurement by bundling hardware and software into a single subscription. For example, body-worn cameras and in-car video systems can be paired with either on-premises or cloud-based digital evidence management software and complementary command center products. Our cloud solutions are also sold as a service, available as single-year to multi-year hosted services, supporting our customers with upgrades and software enhancements to help ensure system performance and technological advancement. The Video technology within the Software and Services segment represente d 15% of the net sales of the total segment in 2022. Command Center Our Command Center portfolio consists of native cloud and on-premises software solutions that support the complex process of the public safety workflow from "911 call to case closure." From the moment a person contacts 911, an array of individuals engage to gather information to coordinate a response and manage the post-incident resolution. These individuals include dispatchers who route calls to police, fire and emergency medical services, first responders in the field, intelligence analysts who manage real-time operations, records specialists who preserve the integrity of information and evidence, crime analysts who identify patterns and accelerate investigations, and corrections officers who oversee jail and inmate management. Additionally, to help ensure that individuals within the public safety workflow can work as efficiently, effectively and safely as possible, we believe it’s important that individuals within enterprise settings can communicate and collaborate directly with public safety agencies, particularly during emergencies. We remain focused on strengthening the intersection of public safety and enterprise security, offering solutions that are designed to help individuals, businesses and public safety agencies work together and share the information that better informs people to take appropriate action. Our Command Center software supports these individuals through the three phases of incident response: incident awareness, incident management and post-incident resolution. Incident awareness software includes community engagement applications for tip submissions, crime mapping and evidence submission,  panic buttons that can share real-time incident details and location, 911 call management software (including multimedia) and next-generation core services for 911 call routing. Incident management software includes voice and computer aided dispatch (CAD) for dispatch and coordinating first response, mass notification software, collaboration software to share operational updates, real-time intelligence software that shows a single, real-time view of video feeds and other alerts on a map, and field response and reporting to help frontline personnel collaborate, manage incident activity and file reports from the field. Post-incident resolution software includes centralized records and evidence management for record-keeping and judicial sharing, analytics including license plate recognition, and jail and inmate management to streamline the process and enable secure inter-agency information sharing. As the public safety market continues to leverage both on-premises and cloud "software-as-a service" (“SaaS”) technologies to efficiently run their operations, reduce response times and increase officer availability, we offer both native cloud-based applications and cloud features that enhance on-premises applications. We believe our products and services enhance first responders’ situational awareness and safety by integrating critical communications, video security, data and analytics to provide an all-in-one operational view of the incident. Another area of public safety evolution is increasing adoption of Next Generation 911 Core Services (“NGCS”), a group of products and services needed to create infrastructure connectivity in order to process a 911 call using Next Generation (“NG”) technology. The NG infrastructure is an Emergency Service IP Network ("ESInet"), which can carry voice, data and multimedia. ESInet enables 911 call takers at public safety answering points to respond to text, video and data. Our NGCS can be offered as a managed service and includes call routing, ESInet, location services, geographic information services, cybersecurity and our continuous network and security operations center dedicated to public safety. Additionally, Command Center includes interoperability software that helps to ensure communication is not limited by coverage area, network technology or device type. Our solutions, including Kodiak, WAVE PTX and CriticalConnect, enable interoperability among devices across multiple networks. For example, a two-way radio network can connect with an LTE network making it possible for individuals to communicate securely and more easily across technologies. The Command Center technology within the Software and Services segment represented 18% of the net sales of the total segment in 2022. 2022 Financial Results • Net sales were $9.1 billion in 2022 compared to $8.2 billion in 2021. • Operating earnings were $1.7 billion in each of 2021 and 2022. • Net earnings attributable to Motorola Solutions, Inc. were $1.4 billion, or $7.93 per diluted common share in 2022, compared to earnings of $1.2 billion, or $7.17 per diluted common share in 2021. • Our operating cash flow was $1.8 billion in each of 2021 and 2022. 31 • We returned over $1.4 billion of capital to shareholders, in the form of $836 million in share repurchases and $530 million in dividends in 2022. • We increased our quarterly dividend by 11% to $0.88 per share in November 2022. • We ended 2022 with a backlog position of $14.3 billion, up $788 million compared to 2021. Segment Financial Highlights • In the Products and Systems Integration segment, net sales were $5.7 billion in 2022, an increase of $695 million, or 14%, compared to $5.0 billion in 2021. On a geographic basis, net sales increased in both the North America region and the International region. Operating earnings were $913 million in 2022, compared to $760 million in 2021. Operating margins increased in 2022 to 15.9% from 15.1% in 2021 primarily due to higher sales volume and increased pricing partially offset by higher direct material costs, higher expenses associated with acquired businesses and $27 million higher share-based compensation expenses. • In the Software and Services segment, net sales were $3.4 billion in 2022, an increase of $246 million, or 8%, compared to $3.1 billion in 2021. On a geographic basis, net sales increased in the North America region. Operating earnings were $748 million in 2022, compared to $907 million in 2021. Operating margins decreased in 2022 to 22.1% from 28.9% in 2021 due to a fixed asset impairment loss of $147 million related to assets constructed and used in the deployment of the Emergency Services Network ("ESN") services contract with the Home Office of the United Kingdom (the "Home Office") which both parties have agreed to exit. Macroeconomic Events During fiscal year 2022, we operated under challenging market conditions, influenced by events such as those discussed below. For a further discussion of our business and the trends and risks that we encounter in our business, please refer to “Part I. Item 1. Business” and “Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K. Russia-Ukraine Conflict During the first quarter of 2022, in response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine, we suspended all sales, provision of services and shipments of our products to Russia and Belarus, which did not constitute a material portion of our business. For the year ended December 31, 2021, our net sales in Russia and Belarus were less than $25 million. However, throughout 2022, we indirectly experienced impacts from the Russia-Ukraine conflict (as further described below). While we do not anticipate that the current posture of the Russia-Ukraine conflict will materially and adversely affect our results of operations, the conflict is still ongoing and has had, and may continue to have, a significant impact on the global macroeconomic and geopolitical environments, including increased volatility in capital and commodity markets, rapid changes to regulatory conditions (including the use of sanctions), supply chain and operational challenges for multinational corporations, inflationary pressures and an increased risk of cybersecurity incidents. COVID-19, Supply Chain Disruptions & Inflationary Cost Environment Throughout 2022, our supply chain was, and continues to be, impacted by global issues related to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Russia-Ukraine conflict and the inflationary cost environment particularly with respect to materials in the semiconductor market, including part shortages, increased freight costs, diminished transportation capacity and labor constraints. This has resulted in disruptions in our supply chain, as well as difficulties and delays in procuring certain semiconductor components. Cost increases were driven by elevated lead times and increased material costs, in particular the need to purchase semiconductor components from alternative sources, including brokers. While we continued to navigate supply chain constraints in 2022, we anticipate the broader impact of inflationary pressures and increased material and supply chain costs and disruptions (including elevated costs to procure materials within the semiconductor market) to continue into 2023. However, we expect global transportation costs to improve in 2023 as compared to 2022. We are closely monitoring supply chain disruptions and continue to remain focused on improving our supplier network, engineering alternative designs and working to reduce supply shortages. We also continue to actively manage our inventory in an effort to minimize supply chain disruptions and enable continuity of supply and services to our customers, and we expect to maintain elevated levels of inventory until supply constraints have been remediated. In order to combat rising inflation in the U.S., the Federal Reserve has raised interest rates multiple times since the beginning of 2022. The increase in U.S. dollar interest rates and overall market conditions led to significant strengthening of the U.S. dollar against many other global currencies in 2022. The strong U.S. dollar negatively impacted cash generated from our foreign operations in 2022, driven by revenues and costs that are denominated in foreign currencies. We expect fluctuations in the value of U.S. dollar relative to other currencies to continue to impact our operating cash flows and net earnings throughout 2023. Although the macroeconomic environment continued to introduce challenges during 2022, we are encouraged by customer demand for our products and services. Specifically, in our Software and Services segment, with the largely recurring nature of the business and our strong backlog position, we expect that the impact to operating margin will be limited during 2023. While we were encouraged by strong backlog and growth in our Products and Systems Integration segment throughout 2022, which we expect to continue to grow during 2023, supply constraints continue to impact our business and we expect demand for our products will continue to outpace our ability to obtain semiconductor component supply throughout 2023. Where appropriate, we have taken pricing actions around our product and service offerings to mitigate our exposure to inflationary pressures on our businesses and benefited from these adjustments during 2022. We expect to further benefit from such adjustments throughout 32 2023. Further, demand continues to be supported with ongoing sources of government funding, including the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 ("ARPA"), which is intended to provide economic stimulus. We experienced the positive impact of the ARPA funding on our business and results of operations throughout 2022 and anticipate that the ARPA will continue to have a positive impact on our business in 2023. We believe our existing balances of cash and cash equivalents, along with other short-term liquidity arrangements, will continue to be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements associated with our existing operations. We were in compliance with all applicable covenants in the 2021 unsecured revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2022. Additionally, we have no bond maturities until 2024. We continue to assess our operating expenses and identify cost reducing initiatives, including lower travel costs, contractor spend and reducing our real estate footprint. Lastly, as a result of the challenging market conditions described above, we evaluated whether there were any impairment indicators as of December 31, 2022, which included a review of our receivables and contract assets, inventory, right-of-use lease assets, long-lived assets, investments, goodwill and intangible assets. As of December 31, 2022, we concluded our assets were fairly stated and recoverable. Recent Events CMA Update In October 2021, the United Kingdom’s ("the U.K.") Competition and Markets Authority (the "CMA") announced that it had opened a market investigation into the Mobile Radio Network for the Police and Emergency Services. This investigation affects Airwave, our private mobile radio communications network that we acquired in 2016. Airwave provides mission-critical voice and data communications to public emergency service agencies in Great Britain. In October 2022, the CMA published a provisional decision with its findings regarding competition and proposed remedies. We disagree with the CMA’s provisional decision and will continue to work with the CMA to demonstrate the value of the Airwave network and protect Airwave’s contractual position. ESN Matters During the year ended December 31, 2022, we signed a mutual agreement with the Home Office for us to exit the ESN communications systems contract early, inclusive of twelve months of transition services through the end of 2023. During the third quarter of 2022, we determined that the future service potential of the ESN communications systems contract was limited, based on the Company's intention to terminate the contract in advance of the contracted service term. We thus recorded a fixed asset impairment loss of $147 million related to assets constructed and used in the deployment of the contract based on our expectation that, more likely than not, the ESN long-lived asset group would be disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life. The impairment loss was recorded in the Software and Services segment within cost of sales in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The recognized impairment loss represents the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset group exceeded the fair value under a measurement of discounted cash flows. Recent Acquisitions 33 34 Climate Change We expect that our operations and supply chain will become increasingly subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations and international treaties and industry standards relating to climate change. For example, in the European Union (the “EU”), the EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive, Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive and EU taxonomy initiatives will introduce additional due diligence and disclosure requirements addressing sustainability that we expect will apply to us in the coming years. Recently, in October 2021 the U.K.’s Cabinet Office began requiring companies bidding on contracts with the U.K. government that have a value of over £5m per year to have carbon reduction plans that contain a commitment to achieving net zero emissions by 2050 for U.K. operations. This requirement applies to our operations in the U.K. Although Motorola Solutions  UK Ltd. and Airwave Solutions Ltd., our U.K. subsidiaries, each committed in early 2022 to achieving net zero emissions by 2050 for such entities' U.K. operations, this requirement and any similar future requirements and other increased regulation of climate change concerns could subject us to additional costs and restrictions, impact our competitive position or require us to make certain changes to our manufacturing practices and/or product designs. Looking Forward We expect continued growth within our global LMR installed base as a number of events such as natural disasters and large-scale incidents continue to reinforce the importance of having secure, reliable LMR for public safety. We believe our augmentation of LMR with broadband solutions will also drive growth, as we expect our customers will look to integrate valuable data capabilities. We expect to provide additional services to existing LMR customers as communication networks become more complex, software-centric and data-driven. As public safety needs continue to evolve, we anticipate growth opportunities within the command center as our Command Center suite covers the public safety workflow from "911 call to case closure" and management. We expect increased growth in our integrated software next generation core services and our cloud-based solutions, such as the PremierOne Cloud suite, as well as hybrid cloud solutions that provide a migration path from on-premises software solutions to cloud-connected capabilities. Within Video, we expect growth across our portfolio of fixed and mobile security solutions embedded with advanced analytics and access control solutions. We believe drivers include expansion of traditional video sales beyond commercial customers to government and public safety customers. Additionally, we expect customers to continue to embrace analytics that convert video into data and the scalability of the cloud to run their operations, and we also expect continued expansion of offerings such as video-as-a-service and ACS. Finally, we anticipate new opportunities from the investments we are making to integrate our LMR, Video and Command Center technologies into one unified ecosystem. We have made go-to-market and research and development investments in both Video and our Command Center technologies with growth in mind. We have made a number of acquisitions and we see opportunities to continue to rationalize costs within both segments of our business, further driving operating leverage in our businesses. We believe our integrated products and services for public and enterprise safety can enable strong collaboration by removing system silos, simplifying management and automating workflows. While we anticipate growth in our business, we also expect to be impacted by a higher tax rate as we look forward, mainly based on lower continuing benefits from stock-based compensation and an increase in the tax rate in the U.K. Refer to “Macroeconomic Events” set forth in this “Part II. Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K for a further discussion of our outlook with respect to the continuing impact of certain macroeconomic events on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 35 Results of Operations *    Amounts attributable to Motorola Solutions, Inc. common shareholders. **    Percentages may not add due to rounding. Geographic Market Sales by Locale of End Customer 36 Results of Operations—2022 Compared to 2021 Net Sales The Products and Systems Integration segment’s net sales represented 63% of our net sales in 2022, compared to 62% in 2021. The Software and Services segment’s net sales represented 37% of our net sales in 2022, compared to 38% in 2021. Net sales increased by $941 million, or 12%, compared to 2021. The 14% increase in net sales within the Products and Systems Integration segment was driven by a 15% increase in the North America region and a 10% increase in the International region. The 8% increase in the Software and Services segment was driven by a 14% increase in the North America region and consistent net sales within the International region. The increase in net sales included: • an increase in the Products and Systems Integration segment, inclusive of $53 million of revenue from acquisitions, driven by growth in LMR, inclusive of public safety LMR products and PCR, and Video; and • an increase in the Software and Services segment, inclusive of $68 million of revenue from acquisitions, driven by an increase in Video, LMR services and Command Center; partially offset by • $216 million from unfavorable currency rates. Regional results included: • a 15% increase in the North America region, inclusive of revenue from acquisitions, driven by growth in LMR, Video and Command Center; and • a 5% increase in the International region, inclusive of revenue from acquisitions, driven by growth in LMR, Video and Command Center. Products and Systems Integration The 14% increase in the Products and Systems Integration segment was driven by the following: • $510 million, or 12% growth in public safety LMR products and PCR, inclusive of revenue from acquisitions, driven by both the North America and International regions; and • $185 million, or 22% growth in Video, inclusive of revenue from acquisitions, in both the North America and International regions; • inclusive of $98 million from unfavorable currency rates. Software and Services The 8% increase in the Software and Services segment was driven by the following: • $112 million, or 28% growth in Video, inclusive of revenue from acquisitions, driven by the North America region; • $69 million, or 3% growth in LMR services, inclusive of revenue from acquisitions, driven by the North America region; and • $65 million, or 12% growth in Command Center, inclusive of revenue from acquisitions, driven by both the North America and International regions; • inclusive of $118 million from unfavorable currency rates. Gross Margin Gross margin was 46.4% of net sales in 2022 compared to 49.4% of net sales in 2021. The primary drivers of this decrease in gross margin as a percentage of net sales were: • lower gross margin as a percentage of net sales in the Software and Services segment, inclusive of acquisitions, primarily driven by a fixed asset impairment loss of $147 million related to assets constructed and 37 used in the deployment of the ESN services contract with the Home Office which we have executed an agreement to exit; and • lower gross margin as a percentage of net sales in the Products and Systems Integration segment, inclusive of acquisitions, primarily driven by increased direct material costs and freight costs, partially offset by pricing actions and higher sales volume. Selling, General and Administrative ("SG&A") Expenses SG&A expenses increased $97 million, or 7% in 2022 compared to 2021. SG&A expenses were 15.9% of net sales in 2022 compared to 16.6% of net sales in 2021. The increase in SG&A expenses was primarily due to higher expenses associated with acquired businesses, higher share-based compensation and higher travel expenses. Research and Development ("R&D") Expenditures R&D expenditures increased $45 million, or 6% in 2022 compared to 2021 primarily due to an investment in R&D, higher expenses associated with acquired businesses and higher share-based compensation. R&D expenditures were 8.5% of net sales in 2022 and 9.0% of net sales in 2021. Other Charges Other charges increased $53 million, or 19% in 2022 compared to 2021 primarily due to the following: • $257 million of intangible asset amortization expense in 2022 compared to $236 million in 2021; • $23 million of legal settlements in 2022 compared to $3 million in 2021; • $24 million of operating lease asset impairments in 2022 compared to $10 million in 2021; • $12 million of fixed asset impairments in 2022 that did not occur in 2021; and • $23 million of charges for acquisition-related transaction fees in 2022 compared to $15 million in 2021; partially offset by • $15 million of gain recoveries from the legal settlement under the Hytera bankruptcy proceedings in 2022 that did not occur in 2021; and • $18 million of net reorganization of business charges in 2022 compared to $24 million in 2021 (see "Note 14: Reorganization of Businesses" to our consolidated financial statements in “Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for further information. Operating Earnings 38 Operating earnings decreased $6 million, or 0.4% in 2022 compared to 2021. The decrease in Operating earnings was due to: • a $159 million decrease in the Software and Services segment from 2021 to 2022, primarily driven by a fixed asset impairment loss of $147 million related to assets constructed and used in the deployment of the ESN services contract with the Home Office which we have executed an agreement to exit; partially offset by • a $153 million increase in the Products and Systems Integration segment from 2021 to 2022, driven by higher sales volume and increased pricing, partially offset by higher direct material costs and higher operating expenses. The increase in operating expenses was primarily driven by higher expenses associated with acquired businesses and $27 million higher share-based compensation expense, partially offset by a $15 million gain from Hytera legal recoveries. Interest Expense, net The $18 million increase in net interest expense in 2022 compared to 2021 was a result of higher debt outstanding and the reversal of a non-cash interest accrual related to an international tax audit in 2021, partially offset by higher interest income earned on cash. Gains (losses) on Sales of Investments and Businesses, net The net gains on sales of investments and businesses were primarily related to the sales of various equity investments. Other, net Other, net income decreased $15 million in 2022 compared to 2021 primarily due to: • a $61 million loss on derivatives in 2022 compared to a $30 million loss on derivatives in 2021; • a $30 million loss on fair value adjustments to equity investments in 2022 compared to an $8 million loss on fair value adjustments to equity investments in 2021; and • a $3 million loss on equity method investments in 2022 compared to a $5 million gain on equity method investments in 2021; partially offset by • $21 million gain on TETRA Ireland equity method investment in 2022 that did not occur in 2021; • $37 million of foreign currency gains in 2022 compared to $17 million of foreign currency gains in 2021; and • a $6 million loss on the extinguishment of long-term debt in 2022 compared to a $18 million loss on the extinguishment of long-term debt in 2021 (see "Note 5: Debt and Credit Facilities" to our consolidated financial statements in “Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for further information). Effective Tax Rate Income tax expense decreased by $154 million in 2022 compared to 2021, for an effective tax rate of 9.8%, which is lower than the current U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% primarily due to: 39 • a $77 million non-recurring net deferred tax benefit as a result of an intra-group transfer of certain intellectual property rights in 2022 (see "Note 7: Income Taxes" to our consolidated financial statements in “Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for further information); • $68 million of benefits due to the recognition of excess tax benefits on share-based compensation; • a $59 million benefit from the foreign derived intangible income deduction; and • a $47 million benefit due to a change in the Company's ability to utilize tax attribute carryforwards resulting in the partial release of valuation allowances. Our effective tax rate in 2021 was 19.5%, which is lower than the current U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% primarily due to: • a $34 million benefit due to a change in the Company's ability to utilize tax attribute carryforwards resulting in the partial release of valuation allowances; and • $32 million of benefits due to the recognition of excess tax benefits on share-based compensation. Results of Operations—2021 Compared to 2020 Net Sales The Products and Systems Integration segment’s net sales represented 62% of our net sales in 2021, compared to 63% in 2020. The Software and Services segment’s net sales represented 38% of our net sales in 2021, compared to 37% in 2020. Net sales increased by $757 million, or 10%, in 2021 compared to 2020. The 9% increase in net sales within the Products and Systems Integration segment was driven by a 9% increase in the North America region and an 8% increase in the International region. The 13% increase in the Software and Services segment was driven by a 14% increase in the North America region and a 11% increase in the International region. The increase in net sales included: • an increase in the Products and Systems Integration segment, inclusive of $89 million of revenue from acquisitions, driven by growth in LMR, inclusive of public safety LMR products and PCR, and Video; • growth in the Software and Services segment, inclusive of $31 million of revenue from acquisitions, driven by an increase in LMR services, Video and Command Center; and • $130 million from favorable currency rates. Regional results include: • a 11% increase in the North America region, inclusive of revenue from acquisitions, driven by growth in LMR, Video and Command Center; and • a 9% increase in the International region, inclusive of revenue from acquisitions, driven by growth in LMR, Video and Command Center. Products and Systems Integration The 9% increase in the Products and Systems Integration segment was driven by the following: • $211 million, or 5% growth in public safety LMR products and PCR, driven by both the North America and International regions; • $188 million, or 29% growth in Video, inclusive of revenue from acquisitions, in both the North America and International regions; • inclusive of $60 million from favorable currency rates. Software and Services The 13% increase in the Software and Services segment was driven by the following: • $197 million, or 10% growth in LMR services, driven by both the North America and International regions; • $112 million, or 39% growth in Video software, inclusive of revenue from acquisitions, driven by both the North America and International regions; • $49 million, or 10% growth in Command Center, inclusive of revenue from acquisitions, driven by both the North America and International regions; • inclusive of $70 million from favorable currency rates. 40 Gross Margin Gross margin was 49.4% of net sales in 2021 compared to 48.7% of net sales in 2020. The primary drivers of this increase in gross margin as a percentage of net sales were: • higher gross margin as a percentage of net sales in the Software and Services segment, inclusive of acquisitions, primarily driven by higher gross margin contribution from sales growth and improved mix of service offerings, partially offset by higher employee incentive costs; and • consistent gross margin as a percentage of net sales in the Products and Systems Integration segment as a result of favorable product mix and reduced reorganization of business charges, offset by an increase in employee incentive costs. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses SG&A expenses increased $60 million, or 5% in 2021 compared to 2020. SG&A expenses were 16.6% of net sales in 2021 compared to 17.4% of net sales in 2020. The increase in SG&A expenses was primarily due to higher employee incentive costs, expenses associated with acquired businesses, higher travel expenses and increased share-based compensation expenses. The overall increase in SG&A expenses was partially offset by lower Hytera-related legal expenses. Research and Development Expenditures R&D expenditures increased $48 million, or 7% in 2021 compared to 2020 primarily due to higher employee incentive costs and higher expenses associated with acquired businesses, partially offset by lower share-based compensation expenses. R&D expenditures were 9.0% of net sales in 2021 and 9.3% of net sales in 2020. Other Charges Other charges increased $40 million, or 16% in 2021 compared to 2020 primarily due to the following: • $50 million gain on the sale of property, plant and equipment in 2020 that did not recur in 2021; • $236 million of intangible asset amortization expense in 2021 compared to $215 million in 2020; • $10 million of operating lease asset impairments in 2021 that did not occur in 2020; and • $15 million of charges for acquisition-related transaction fees in 2021 compared to $9 million in 2020; partially offset by • $24 million of net reorganization of business charges in 2021 compared to $57 million in 2020 (see "Note 14: Reorganization of Businesses" to our consolidated financial statements in “Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for further information); • $3 million of legal settlements in 2021 compared to $9 million in 2020; and • $5 million of fixed asset impairments in 2020 that did not recur in 2021. 41 Operating Earnings Operating earnings increased $284 million, or 21% in 2021 compared to 2020. The increase in Operating earnings was due to: • Software and Services segment increased $180 million from 2020 to 2021 driven by higher sales and gross margin contribution and an improved mix of service offerings, offset by higher operating expenses. The increase in operating expenses was driven by higher expenses associated with acquired businesses, higher employee incentive costs and higher intangible assets amortization expense, partially offset by $11 million lower reorganization of business expenses and $7 million lower share-based compensation expenses; and • Products and Systems Integration increased $104 million from 2020 to 2021 primarily driven by increased sales volume, partially offset by higher operating expenses.  The increase in operating expenses was driven by a $50 million gain on the sale of property, plant and equipment in 2020 that did not recur in 2021, higher employee incentive costs and higher expenses associated with acquired businesses, partially offset by: $43 million lower reorganization of business charges and $16 million lower Hytera-related legal expenses. Interest Expense, net The $12 million decrease in net interest expense in 2021 compared to 2020 was a result of the reversal of an $11 million non-cash interest accrual related to an international tax audit and lower interest rates on debt outstanding. Gains (losses) on Sales of Investments and Businesses, net The net gains (losses) on sales of investments and businesses were primarily related to the sales of various equity investments. Other, net Net Other income increased $79 million in 2021 compared to 2020 primarily due to: • $17 million of foreign currency gains in 2021 compared to $44 million of foreign currency losses in 2020; • $123 million of net periodic pension and postretirement benefits in 2021 compared to $81 million of net periodic pension and postretirement benefits in 2020; • an $18 million loss on the extinguishment of long term debt in 2021 compared to a $56 million loss on the extinguishment of long-term debt in 2020 (see "Note 5: Debt and Credit Facilities" to our consolidated financial statements in “Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for further information); and • $4 million of investment impairments in 2020 that did not occur in 2021; partially offset by • $30 million loss on derivatives in 2021 compared to a $25 million gain on derivatives in 2020; and • an $8 million loss on fair value adjustments to equity investments in 2021 compared to a $6 million gain on fair value adjustments to equity investments in 2020. 42 Effective Tax Rate Income tax expense increased by $81 million in 2021 compared to 2020, for an effective tax rate of 19.5%, which is lower than the current U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% primarily due to: • a $34 million benefit due to a change in the Company's ability to utilize tax attribute carryforwards resulting in the partial release of valuation allowances; and • $32 million of benefits due to the recognition of excess tax benefits on share-based compensation. Our effective tax rate in 2020 was 18.8%, which is lower than the current U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% primarily due to: • $48 million of benefits due to the recognition of excess tax benefits on share-based compensation; and • $28 million of benefits due to the recognition of increased prior and current R&D tax credits. Reorganization of Businesses In 2022, we recorded net reorganization of business charges of $36 million relating to the separation of 460 employees, of which 150 were indirect employees and 310 were direct employees. The $36 million of charges included $18 million recorded to Cost of sales and $18 million recorded to Other charges. Included in the aggregate $36 million were charges of $36 million for employee separation costs and $10 million for exit costs, partially offset by $10 million of reversals for accruals no longer needed. During 2021, we recorded net reorganization of business charges of $32 million relating to the separation of 600 employees, of which 200 were indirect employees and 400 were direct employees. The $32 million of charges included $8 million recorded to Cost of sales and $24 million recorded to Other charges. Included in the aggregate $32 million were charges of $42 million for employee separation costs, partially offset by $10 million of reversals for accruals no longer needed. During 2020, we recorded net reorganization of business charges of $86 million relating to the separation of 1,200 employees, of which 400 were indirect employees and 800 were direct employees. The $86 million of charges included $29 million recorded to Cost of sales and $57 million recorded to Other charges. Included in the aggregate $86 million were charges of $100 million for employee separation costs and $2 million for exit costs, partially offset by $16 million of reversals for accruals no longer needed. The following table displays the net charges incurred by business segment due to such reorganizations: Cash payments for employee severance in connection with the reorganization of business plans were $34 million, $77 million, and $85 million in 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. The reorganization of business accruals for employee separation costs at December 31, 2022 were $26 million which we expect to pay within one year. At January 1, 2022, we did not have an accrual for exit costs. There were $10 million of exit cost charges in 2022 related to our exit of the ESN contract with the Home Office. The $10 million of exit costs are recorded in Accrued liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2022, and are expected to be paid within one year. 43 Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash and Cash Equivalents At December 31, 2022, $879 million of our $1.3 billion cash and cash equivalents balance was held in the U.S. and $446 million was held in other countries, with $74 million held in the U.K.. Restricted cash was $2 million at each of   December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021. In 2022, we repatriated $378 million in cash to the U.S. from international jurisdictions. We routinely repatriate a portion of non-U.S. earnings each year. We have recorded income tax expense for foreign withholding tax and distribution taxes on such earnings and, under current U.S. tax laws, do not expect to incur material incremental U.S. tax on repatriation. Where appropriate, we may also pursue capital reduction activities; however, such activities can be involved and lengthy. While we regularly repatriate funds, and a portion of offshore funds can be repatriated with minimal adverse financial impact, repatriation of some of these funds may be subject to delay due to local country approvals. Operating Activities The decrease in operating cash flows from 2021 to 2022 was driven by: • an increase in working capital, inclusive of higher inventory; • higher employee incentive costs; and • $50 million of higher income tax payments; partially offset by • higher earnings. The increase in operating cash flows from 2020 to 2021 was driven by: • an increase in operating earnings as a result of higher sales volume; partially offset by • $76 million of higher income tax payments. Investing Activities The increase in net cash used for investing activities from 2021 to 2022 was primarily due to: • $656 million increase in acquisitions and investments, driven by acquisitions of $1.2 billion in 2022 compared to $521 million in 2021; • $30 million increase in sales of investments in 2022 compared to 2021; and • $13 million increase in capital expenditures in 2022 compared to 2021. The increase in net cash used for investing activities from 2020 to 2021 was primarily due to: • $234 million increase in acquisitions and investments, driven by acquisitions of $521 million in 2021 compared to $287 million in 20201; • $50 million decrease in proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment in 2020 that did not recur in 2021; and • $26 million increase in capital expenditures in 2021 compared to 2020 due to higher expenditures for the Airwave and ESN networks. Financing Activities The increase in cash used for financing activities in 2022 compared to cash used for financing activities in 2021 was driven by (also see further discussion in "Debt," "Credit Facilities," "Share Repurchase Program" and "Dividends" in this section below): • $836 million used for purchases under our share repurchase program in 2022 compared to $528 million in 2021; and 44 • $530 million cash used for the payment of dividends in 2022 compared to $482 million in 2021; partially offset by • $595 million net proceeds from the issuance of $600 million of 5.6% senior notes due 2032 in the second quarter of 2022, which was subsequently used to repurchase $275 million principal amount of our 4.0% senior notes due 2024 for a purchase price of $279 million, excluding $3 million of accrued interest. The decrease in cash used for financing activities in 2021 compared to cash used for financing activities in 2020 was driven by: • $844 million net proceeds from the issuance of $850 million of 2.75% senior notes due 2031 in the second quarter of 2021, which was subsequently used to repurchase $324 million principal amount of our 3.5% senior notes due 2023 for a purchase price of $341 million, excluding $3 million of accrued interest; and • $528 million used for purchases under our share repurchase program in 2021 compared to $612 million in 2020; partially offset by • $482 million cash used for the payment of dividends in 2021 compared to $436 million in 2020. Sales of Receivables We may choose to sell accounts receivable and long-term receivables to third-parties under one-time arrangements. We may or may not retain the obligation to service the sold accounts receivable and long-term receivables. The following table summarizes the proceeds received from sales of accounts receivable and long-term receivables for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020: During the year ended December 31, 2022, we utilized and fully repaid a cost-efficient receivable discounting facility, implemented in 2020, to neutralize the impact of increased payment terms under a renegotiated and extended long-term contract in Europe. Both the proceeds and repayment of our receivable sales are included in "Operating Activities" within our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. At December 31, 2022, the Company had retained servicing obligations for $891 million of long-term receivables, compared to $940 million of long-term receivables at December 31, 2021. Servicing obligations are limited to collection activities related to the sales of accounts receivables and long-term receivables. Debt We had outstanding long-term debt of $6.0 billion and $5.7 billion, including the current portions of $1 million and $5 million, at December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively. On September 5, 2019, we entered into an agreement with Silver Lake Partners to issue $1.0 billion of 1.75% senior convertible notes which mature in September 2024 (the "Senior Convertible Notes"). Interest on these notes is payable semiannually. The Senior Notes became fully convertible on September 5, 2021. The notes are convertible based on a conversion rate of 4.9140 per $1,000 principal amount (which is equal to an initial conversion price of $203.50 per share), adjusted for dividends declared through the date of settlement. We adopted ASU No. 2020-06 on January 1, 2022, using the modified retrospective method of adoption. As a result of the adoption of this ASU, the Senior Convertible Notes are accounted as a single liability measured at its amortized cost, given the embedded conversion feature does not require bifurcation and recognition as a derivative. Upon adoption of this ASU, amounts previously recognized in additional paid-in capital from the original embedded conversion feature of $10 million were reclassified to retained earnings.  Refer to "Note 1: Summary of Accounting Policies" in this “Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for a further discussion regarding the effect of the adoption of ASU 2020-06. In August of 2020, we issued $900 million of 2.30% senior notes due 2030. We recognized net proceeds of $892 million after debt issuance costs and debt discounts. A portion of these proceeds were then used to redeem $552 million in principal amount outstanding of the 3.75% senior notes due 2022 for a redemption price of $582 million, excluding $7 million of accrued interest. The remaining proceeds were used to repurchase $293 million in principal amount outstanding of our long-term debt under a tender offer, for a purchase price of $315 million, excluding $5 million of accrued interest. After accelerating the amortization of debt issuance costs and debt discounts, we recognized a loss of $56 million related to the redemption and the repurchase in Other, net within Other income (expense) in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. 45 In May of 2021, we issued $850 million of 2.75% senior notes due 2031. We recognized net proceeds of $844 million after debt issuance costs. A portion of these proceeds was then used to redeem $324 million in principal amount of our outstanding long-term debt for a purchase price of $341 million, excluding $3 million of accrued interest. After accelerating the amortization of debt issuance costs, we recognized a loss of $18 million related to the redemption in Other, net within Other income (expense) in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. In May of 2022, we issued $600 million of 5.6% senior notes due 2032. We recognized net proceeds of $595 million after debt issuance costs and discounts. A portion of these proceeds was then used to repurchase $275 million in principal amount of the Company's 4.0% senior notes due 2024 pursuant to a cash tender offer, for a purchase price of $279 million, excluding $3 million of accrued interest. After accelerating the amortization of debt discounts and debt issuance costs, we recognized a loss of $6 million related to the tender offer in Other, net within Other income (expense) in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. We have an unsecured commercial paper program, backed by the revolving credit facility described below, under which we may issue unsecured commercial paper notes up to a maximum aggregate principal amount of $2.2 billion outstanding at any one time. At maturity, the notes are paid back in full including the interest component. The notes are not redeemable prior to maturity. As of December 31, 2022, we had no outstanding debt under the commercial paper program. Credit Facilities As of December 31, 2022, we had a $2.25 billion syndicated, unsecured revolving credit facility scheduled to mature in March 2026 (the "2021 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement"). The 2021 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement includes a letter of credit sub-limit and fronting commitments of $450 million. An annual facility fee is payable on the undrawn amount of the credit line. The interest rate and facility fee are subject to adjustment if our credit rating changes. We must comply with certain customary covenants including a maximum leverage ratio, as defined in the 2021 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement. We were in compliance with our financial covenants as of December 31, 2022. Subsequent to year end, on February 8, 2023, we entered into an amendment to the 2021 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement to replace the interest rate benchmark from London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) to the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR). Share Repurchase Program Through a series of actions, the Board of Directors has authorized an aggregate share repurchase amount of up to $16.0 billion of our outstanding shares of common stock (the “share repurchase program”). The share repurchase program does not have an expiration date. As of December 31, 2022, we used approximately $14.7 billion of the share repurchase authority, including transaction costs, to repurchase shares, leaving approximately $1.3 billion of authority available for future repurchases. Our share repurchases, including transaction costs, for 2022, 2021, and 2020 are summarized as follows: Dividends We paid cash dividends to holders of our common stock of $530 million in 2022, $482 million in 2021, and $436 million in 2020. On January 13, 2023, we paid an additional $148 million in cash dividends to holders of our common stock. Adequate Internal Funding Resources We believe that we have adequate internal resources available to generate adequate amounts of cash to meet our expected working capital, capital expenditure and cash requirements for the next twelve months and the foreseeable future, as supported by the level of cash and cash equivalents in the U.S., the ability to repatriate funds from foreign jurisdictions, cash provided by operations, as well as liquidity provided by our commercial paper program backed by the 2021 Motorola Solutions Credit Agreement. We do not anticipate a material decrease to net future cash flows generated from operations. We expect to use our available cash, investments, and debt facilities to support and invest in our business. This includes investing in our existing products and technologies, seeking new acquisition opportunities related to our strategic growth initiatives and returning cash to shareholders through common stock cash dividend payments (subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors) and share repurchases. Refer also to “Macroeconomic Events” of this section of Form 10-K for a discussion of the impact of macroeconomic events on our liquidity, as well as "Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors" for further discussion regarding access to the capital markets. 46 Material Cash Requirements from Contractual and Other Obligations Summarized in the table and text below are our short-term (within the next twelve months) and long-term material cash requirements as of December 31, 2022, which we expect to fund with a combination of operating cash flows, existing cash balances or, as needed, borrowings under new or existing debt: (1) Amounts included represent the estimated principal payments applicable to outstanding debt. Refer to "Note 5: Debt and Credit Facilities" in "Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K for discussion related to our long-term debt obligations. (2) We lease certain office, factory and warehouse space, land, and other equipment, principally under non-cancelable operating leases. We are evaluating our real estate needs in order to identify opportunities to reduce long-term cash requirements for office space where practicable. Refer to "Note 3: Leases" to our consolidated financial statements in "Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K for further discussion of these material lease obligations. (3) Amounts included represent firm, non-cancelable commitments. Such commitments include license agreements and  agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that either allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by us or establish the parameters defining our requirements. We do not anticipate the cancellation of any of our take-or-pay agreements in the future and estimate that purchases from these suppliers will exceed the minimum obligations during the agreement periods. Other Contingencies Potential Contractual Damage Claims in Excess of Underlying Contract Value: In certain circumstances, we enter into contracts with customers pursuant to which the damages that could be claimed by the customer for failed performance might exceed the revenue we receive from the contract. Contracts with these types of uncapped damages provisions are fairly rare, but individual contracts could still represent meaningful risk. There is a possibility that a claim by a counterparty to one of these contracts could result in expenses that are far in excess of the revenue received from the counterparty in connection with the contract. Indemnification Provisions: We may provide indemnifications for losses that result from the breach of general warranties contained in certain commercial and intellectual property agreements. Historically, we have not made significant payments under these agreements, nor have there been significant claims asserted against us. However, there is an increasing risk in relation to intellectual property indemnities given the current legal climate. In indemnification cases, payment by us is conditioned on the other party making a claim pursuant to the procedures specified in the particular contract, which procedures typically allow us to challenge the other party’s claims. In some instances we may have recourse against third-parties for certain payments made by us. Legal Matters: We are a defendant in various lawsuits, claims, and actions, which arise in the normal course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or liquidity. However, an unfavorable resolution could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the periods in which the matters are ultimately resolved, or in the periods in which more information is obtained that changes management's opinion of the ultimate disposition. Long-term Customer Financing Commitments Outstanding Commitments: Certain purchasers of our products and services may request that we provide long-term financing (defined as financing with a term of greater than one year) in connection with the sale of equipment. These requests may include all or a portion of the purchase price of the products and services. Our obligation to provide long-term financing may be conditioned on the issuance of a letter of credit in favor of us by a reputable bank to support the purchaser's credit or a pre-existing commitment from a reputable bank to purchase the long-term receivables from us. We had outstanding commitments to provide long-term financing to third-parties totaling $65 million at December 31, 2022 and $56 million at December 31, 2021. Critical Accounting Estimates This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations discusses our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. 47 Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience, current economic and industry conditions and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. This forms the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The Company believes that the following discussion addresses the Company’s most critical accounting estimates, which are those that are most important to the portrayal of the Company’s financial condition and results of operations and require management’s most difficult, subjective and complex judgments. Revenue Recognition We enter into arrangements which consist of multiple promises to our customers. We evaluate whether the promised goods and services are distinct or a series of distinct goods or services. Where contracts contain multiple performance obligations, we generally allocate the total estimated consideration to each performance obligation based on applying an estimated selling price (“ESP”) as our best estimate of standalone selling price. We determine ESP by: (i) collecting all reasonably available data points including sales, cost and margin analyses of the product or services, and other inputs based on our normal pricing and discounting practices, (ii) making any reasonably required adjustments to the data based on market and Company-specific factors, and (iii) stratifying the data points, when appropriate, based on major product or service, type of customer, geographic market, and sales volume. We account for certain system contracts on an over-time basis, electing an input method of estimated costs as a measure of performance completed. The selection of the measurement of progress using estimated costs was based on a thorough consideration of alternatives of various output and input measures, including contract milestones and labor hours. However, we have determined that other input and output measures are not an appropriate measure of progress as they do not accurately align with the transfer of control on our customized systems. The selection of costs incurred as a measure of progress aligns the transfer of control to the overall production of the customized system. For system contracts accounted for over time using estimated costs as a measure of performance completed, we rely on estimates around the total estimated costs to complete the contract (“Estimated Costs at Completion”). Total Estimated Costs at Completion include direct labor, material and subcontracting costs. Due to the nature of the efforts required to be performed to meet the underlying performance obligation, determining Estimated Costs at Completion may be complex and subject to many variables. We have a standard and disciplined quarterly process in which management reviews the progress and performance of open contracts in order to determine the best estimate of Estimated Costs at Completion. As part of this process, management reviews information including, but not limited to, any outstanding key contract matters, progress towards completion, the project schedule, identified risks and opportunities, and the related changes in estimates of costs. The risks and opportunities include management’s judgment about the ability and cost to achieve the project schedule, technical requirements, and other contract requirements. Management must make assumptions and estimates regarding labor productivity and availability, the complexity of work to be performed, the availability and cost of materials, and performance by subcontractors, among other variables. Based on this analysis, any adjustment to net sales, cost of sales, and the related impact to operating income are recorded as necessary in the period they become known. When estimates of total costs to be incurred on a contract exceed estimates of total revenue to be earned, a provision for the entire loss on the contract is recorded in the period in which the loss is determined. Retirement Benefits Our benefit obligations and net periodic pension costs (benefits) associated with our domestic noncontributory pension plans (“U.S. Pension Benefit Plans”), our foreign noncontributory pension plans (“Non-U.S. Plans”), as well as our domestic postretirement health care plan (“Postretirement Health Care Benefits Plan”), are determined using actuarial assumptions. The assumptions are based on management’s best estimates, after consulting with outside investment advisors and actuaries. Accounting methodologies use an attribution approach that generally spreads the effects of individual events over the service lives of the participants in the plan, or estimated average lifetime when almost all of the plan participants are considered "inactive." Examples of “events” are plan amendments and changes in actuarial assumptions such as discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, and rate of compensation increases. There are various assumptions used in calculating the net periodic costs (benefits) and related benefit obligations. One of these assumptions is the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. The required use of the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets may result in recognized pension income that is greater or less than the actual returns of those plan assets in any given year. Over time, however, the expected long-term returns are designed to approximate the actual long-term returns.  We use a five-year, market-related asset value method of recognizing asset related gains and losses. We use long-term historical actual return experience with consideration of the expected investment mix of the plans’ assets, as well as future estimates of long-term investment returns, to develop our expected rate of return assumption used in calculating the net periodic pension cost (benefit) and the net postretirement health care benefit. Our investment return assumption for the U.S. Pension Benefit Plans was 6.76% in 2022 and 6.75% in 2021. Our investment return assumption for the Postretirement Health Care Benefits Plan was 6.90% in 2022 and 6.75% in 2021. Our weighted average investment return assumption for the Non-U.S. Plans was 4.78% in 2022 and 4.54% in 2021. For the U.S. Pension Benefit Plans, a 25 bps increase in expected return on plan assets would result in $9 million of additional net periodic pension benefit and a 25 bps decrease would result in a $9 million reduction in net periodic pension benefit. The impact of a similar increase or decrease on the Non-U.S. Plans and the Postretirement Health Care Benefits Plan would be de minimis. A second key assumption is the discount rate. The discount rate assumptions used for the U.S. Pension Benefit Plans, the Non-U.S. Plans and the Postretirement Health Care Benefits Plan reflect, at December 31 of each year, the prevailing market 48 rates for high-quality, fixed-income debt instruments that, if the obligation was settled at the measurement date, would provide the necessary future cash flows to pay the benefit obligation when due. Our discount rates for measuring our U.S. Pension Benefit Plan obligations were 5.20% and 2.98% at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Our weighted average discount rates for measuring our Non-U.S. Plans were 4.6% and 1.82% at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Our discount rates for measuring the Postretirement Health Care Benefits Plan obligation were 5.10% and 2.78% at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. A change in our discount rate on the Postretirement Health Care Benefits Plan would be de minimis. The effects of a change in the discount rate on the projected benefit obligation for both the U.S. and Non-U.S. Pension Benefit Plans are as follows: Under relevant accounting rules, when almost all of the plan participants are considered inactive, the amortization period for certain unrecognized losses changes from the average remaining service period to the average remaining lifetime of the participant. As such, depending on the specific plan, we amortize gains and losses over periods ranging from nine to twenty-seven years. Prior service costs are being amortized over periods ranging from one to seventeen years. Benefits under all pension plans are valued based on the projected unit credit cost method. Valuation and Recoverability of Goodwill We assess the recorded amount of goodwill for recovery on an annual basis as of the last day of the third quarter of each fiscal year. Goodwill is assessed more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount. We continually assess whether any such events and circumstances have occurred, which requires a significant amount of judgment. Such events and circumstances may include: (i) adverse changes in macroeconomic conditions, (ii) adverse changes in the industry or market in which we transact, (iii) changes in cost factors negatively impacting earnings and cash flows, (iv) negative or declining overall financial performance, (v) events affecting the carrying value or composition of a reporting unit, or (vi) a sustained decrease in share price, among others. Any such adverse event or change in circumstances could have a significant impact on the recoverability of goodwill and could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. The goodwill impairment assessment is performed at the reporting unit level. A reporting unit is an operating segment or one level below an operating segment (referred to as a “component”). A component of an operating segment is a reporting unit if the component constitutes a business for which discrete financial information is available and segment management regularly reviews the operating results of that component. When two or more components of an operating segment have similar economic characteristics, the components are aggregated and deemed a single reporting unit. An operating segment is deemed to be a reporting unit if all of its components are similar, if none of its components is a reporting unit, or if the segment comprises only a single component. Based on this guidance, we have determined that our Products and Systems Integration and Software and Services segments are comprised of three and two reporting units, respectively. In the fiscal year 2022, we elected to perform a quantitative assessment of goodwill for impairment. The quantitative assessment involved the assignment of assets and liabilities to each of our reporting units and an assessment of the fair value of each of our reporting units.  We utilized an income approach (discounted cash flows) to estimate the fair value of each reporting unit which was corroborated by market multiples when available and as appropriate.  Key assumptions in the quantitative analysis included revenue growth rates (including long-term growth rates for terminal value assumptions), operating margin estimates, discount rates, and where applicable, the comparable multiples from publicly traded companies in our industry. The quantitative test indicated all reporting units had fair values in excess of their carrying values, and no impairment of goodwill was identified as a result of our annual testing conducted in 2022. We performed a qualitative assessment to determine whether it was more-likely-than-not that the fair value of each reporting unit was less than its carrying amount for the fiscal years 2021 and 2020. In performing this qualitative assessment we assessed relevant events and circumstances including macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, cost factors, overall financial performance, changes in enterprise value and entity-specific events. For fiscal years 2021 and 2020, we concluded it was more-likely-than-not that the fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying value. Valuation of Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities We use the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, income tax expense is recognized for the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year. In addition, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Management makes assumptions, judgments and estimates to determine our current and deferred tax provision and also the deferred tax assets and liabilities. We evaluate our deferred tax assets quarterly to determine if adjustments to our valuation allowance are required based on the consideration of all available positive and negative evidence. 49 Our assumptions, judgments and estimates for computing the income tax provision takes into account current tax laws, our interpretation of current tax law and possible outcomes of current and future audits conducted by foreign and domestic tax authorities. We believe such estimates to be reasonable; however, the final determination of certain audits could significantly impact the amounts provided for income taxes in our financial statements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See “Note 1: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements in “Part II. Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K. 50