********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Risk Factors Summary Risks Relating to the Acquisition of People’s United • M&T may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of People’s United and integrating People’s United may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than expected. • M&T may be unable to retain personnel successfully. • Litigation related to the acquisition has been filed in the past and additional litigation may be filed in the future, which could result in the payment of damages or otherwise negatively impact the business and operations of M&T. Market Risk • Weakness in the economy has adversely affected the Company in the past and may adversely affect the Company in the future. • The Company’s business and financial performance is impacted significantly by market interest rates and movements in those rates. The monetary, tax and other policies of governmental agencies, including the Federal Reserve, have a significant impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance over which the Company has no control and which the Company may not be able to anticipate adequately. • The discontinuation of LIBOR as a permissible rate index in new contracts, the formal announcement of LIBOR’s cessation date, and the development of SOFR and other alternative benchmark indices to replace LIBOR could adversely impact the Company’s business and results of operations. • The Company’s business and performance is vulnerable to the impact of volatility in debt and equity markets. • The Company’s regional concentrations expose it to adverse economic conditions in its primary retail banking office footprint. Risks Relating to Compliance and the Regulatory Environment • The Company is subject to extensive government regulation and supervision and this regulatory environment can be and has been significantly impacted by financial regulatory reform initiatives. • The Company may be subject to more stringent capital and liquidity requirements. • M&T’s ability to return capital to shareholders and to pay dividends on common stock may be adversely affected by market and other factors outside of its control and will depend, in part, on the results of supervisory stress tests administered by the Federal Reserve. • If an orderly liquidation of a systemically important BHC or non-bank financial company were triggered, M&T could face assessments for the Orderly Liquidation Fund (“OLF”). Credit Risk • Deteriorating credit quality could adversely impact the Company. • The Company may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Liquidity Risk • The Company must maintain adequate sources of funding and liquidity. • If the Company is unable to maintain or grow its deposits, it may be subject to paying higher funding costs. • M&T relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for its liquidity. Strategic Risk • The financial services industry is highly competitive and creates competitive pressures that could adversely affect the Company’s revenue and profitability. 24 • Difficulties in obtaining regulatory approval for acquisitions and in combining the operations of acquired entities with the Company’s own operations may prevent M&T from achieving the expected benefits from its acquisitions. • M&T could suffer if the Company fails to attract and retain skilled personnel. Operational Risk • The Company is subject to operational risk which could adversely affect the Company’s business and reputation and create material legal and financial exposure. • The Company’s information systems may experience interruptions or breaches in security, including due to events beyond the Company’s control. • The Company could incur higher costs, experience lower revenue, and suffer reputational damage in the event of the theft, loss or misuse of information, including due to a cyber security attack. • The Company is subject to laws and regulations relating to the privacy of the information of customers, clients, employees or others, and any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose the Company to liability and/or reputational damage. • M&T relies on other companies to provide key components of the Company’s business infrastructure. • The Company is or may become involved from time to time in suits, legal proceedings, information-gathering requests, investigations and proceedings by governmental and self-regulatory agencies that may lead to adverse consequences. Business Risk • Changes in accounting standards could impact the Company’s reported financial condition and results of operations. • The Company’s reported financial condition and results of operations depend on management’s selection of accounting methods and require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. • The Company’s models used for business planning purposes could perform poorly or provide inadequate information. • The Company is exposed to reputational risk. • The Company’s framework for managing risks may not be effective. • Pandemics, including COVID-19, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could significantly impact the Company’s business. • The Company’s assets, communities, operations, reputation and customers could be adversely affected by the impacts of climate risk. Risk Factors M&T and its subsidiaries face a number of potential risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. As a financial institution, certain risk elements are inherent in the ordinary course of the Company’s business activities and adverse experience with those risks could have a material impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as on the values of the Company’s financial instruments and M&T’s securities, including its common stock. The following risk factors set forth some of the risks that could materially and adversely impact the Company, although there may be additional risks that are not presently material or known that may adversely affect the Company. 25 Risks Related to the Acquisition of People’s United M&T may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of People’s United and integrating People’s United may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than expected. In connection with the acquisition of People’s United that was completed on April 1, 2022, M&T has incurred and may further incur costs as M&T continues to integrate the People’s United business. The success of the acquisition depends, in part, on the ability to realize the anticipated cost savings from combining the businesses of M&T and People’s United. To realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from the acquisition, M&T must integrate and combine People’s United’s businesses in a manner that permits cost savings to be realized, without adversely affecting revenues and future growth. If M&T is not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. In addition, the actual cost savings of the acquisition could be less than anticipated. There can be no assurances that the expected benefits and efficiencies related to the acquisition will be realized to offset the transaction and integration costs over time. M&T may also incur additional costs to retain legacy People’s United customers, maintain employee morale and to retain key employees. M&T has waived certain fees following conversion of customer deposit accounts to M&T’s deposit servicing system, and similar or other costs related to integration of People's United or operations as a combined company may be incurred in the future. It is possible that challenges related to operating as a combined company could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect M&T’s abilities to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the acquisition. An inability to realize the full extent of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition could have an adverse effect upon the revenues, levels of expenses and operating results of M&T, which may adversely affect the value of M&T’s common stock. M&T may be unable to retain personnel successfully. The success of the acquisition will depend in part on the Company’s ability to retain the talents and dedication of key employees. It is possible that these employees, including key legacy People’s United employees, may decide not to remain with the Company. If the Company is unable to retain key employees, including management, who are critical to the successful future operations of the combined company, the Company could face disruptions in its operations, loss of existing customers, loss of key information, expertise or know-how and unanticipated additional recruitment costs. If key employees terminate their employment, the Company’s business activities may be adversely affected and the Company may not be able to locate or retain suitable replacements. Litigation related to the acquisition has been filed in the past and additional litigation may be filed in the future, which could result in the payment of damages or otherwise negatively impact the business and operations of the Company. Although not currently active, litigation related to the acquisition was filed against People’s United, the People’s United board of directors and M&T prior to the completion of the acquisition. Additional litigation may be filed against M&T and the M&T board of directors in the future. Among other remedies, litigation that was filed sought damages, and additional litigation by shareholders of M&T in the future may seek damages or other remedies. The outcome of any litigation is uncertain. Such lawsuits and the defense or settlement of any such lawsuits may have an adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of M&T. 26 Market Risk Weakness in the economy has adversely affected the Company in the past and may adversely affect the Company in the future. Poor business and economic conditions in general or specifically in markets served by the Company could have adverse effects on the Company’s business including: • A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by the Company. • A decrease in net interest income derived from the Company’s lending and deposit gathering activities. • A decrease in the value of the Company’s investment securities, loans held for sale or other assets secured by residential or commercial real estate. • A decrease in fees from the Company’s brokerage, trust, and investment management businesses associated with declines or lack of growth in stock market prices. • Potential higher FDIC assessments due to the DIF falling below minimum required levels. • An impairment of certain intangible assets, such as goodwill. • An increase in the number of customers and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to the Company. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in higher levels of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for credit losses as well as impairment write-downs of certain investment securities and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale. If recessionary economic conditions develop, they would likely have a negative financial impact across the financial services industry, including on the Company. If recessionary economic conditions are more severe, the extent of the negative impact on the Company’s business and financial performance can increase and be more severe, including the adverse effects listed above and discussed throughout this “Risk Factors” section. Supply chain constraints, robust demand and labor shortages have led to persistent inflationary pressures throughout the economy. Volatility and uncertainty related to inflation and the effects of inflation, which may lead to increased costs for businesses and consumers and potentially contribute to poor business and economic conditions generally, may also enhance or contribute to some of the risks discussed herein. For example, higher inflation, or volatility and uncertainty related to inflation, could reduce demand for the Company’s products, adversely affect the creditworthiness of the Company’s borrowers, result in lower values for the Company’s investment securities and other interest-earning assets and increase expense related to talent acquisition and retention. Additionally, economic conditions, financial markets and inflationary pressures may be adversely affected by the impact of current or anticipated geopolitical uncertainties, military conflicts, including Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, pandemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic, and global, national and local responses thereto by governmental authorities and other third parties. These unpredictable events could create, increase or prolong economic and financial disruptions and volatility that adversely affects the Company’s business, financial condition, capital and results of operations. The Company’s business and financial performance is impacted significantly by market interest rates and movements in those rates. The monetary, tax and other policies of governmental agencies, including the Federal Reserve, have a significant impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance over which the Company has no control and which the Company may not be able to anticipate adequately. 27 The Federal Reserve raised benchmark interest rates throughout 2022 and may continue to raise interest rates in response to economic conditions, particularly inflationary pressures. As a result of the high percentage of the Company’s assets and liabilities that are in the form of interest-bearing or interest-related instruments, changes in interest rates, including in the shape of the yield curve or in spreads between different market interest rates, as well as changes linked to inflation, can have a material effect on the Company’s business and profitability and the value of the Company’s assets and liabilities. For example, changes in interest rates or interest rate spreads may: • Affect the difference between the interest that the Company earns on assets and the interest that the Company pays on liabilities, which impacts the Company’s overall net interest income and profitability. • Adversely affect the ability of borrowers to meet obligations under variable or adjustable-rate loans and other debt instruments, which, in turn, affects the Company’s loss rates on those assets. • Decrease the demand for interest rate-based products and services, including loans and deposits. • Affect the Company’s ability to hedge various forms of market and interest rate risk and may decrease the profitability or protection or increase the risk or cost associated with such hedges. • Affect mortgage prepayment speeds and result in the impairment of capitalized mortgage servicing assets, reduce the value of loans held for sale and increase the volatility of mortgage banking revenues, potentially adversely affecting the Company’s results of operations. The monetary, tax and other policies of the government and its agencies, including the Federal Reserve, have a significant impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance. These governmental policies can thus affect the activities and results of operations of banking organizations such as the Company. An important function of the Federal Reserve is to regulate the national supply of bank credit and certain interest rates. The actions of the Federal Reserve influence the rates of interest that the Company charges on loans and that the Company pays on borrowings and interest-bearing deposits and can also affect the value of the Company’s on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments. Interest rate increases have recently reduced the value of the Company’s investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the estimated fair value of fixed income securities. Furthermore, as interest rates rise, the Company’s unrealized gains on fixed income securities would ordinarily decrease and unrealized losses would ordinarily increase, which occurred in 2022 and could continue to occur in 2023. Also, due to the impact on rates for short-term funding, the Federal Reserve’s policies influence, to a significant extent, the Company’s cost of such funding, and increases in short-term interest rates have in the past increased, and may in the future increase, the Company’s cost of short-term funding. In addition, the Company is routinely subject to examinations from various governmental taxing authorities. Such examinations may result in challenges to the tax return treatment applied by the Company to specific transactions. Management believes that the assumptions and judgment used to record tax-related assets or liabilities have been appropriate. Should tax laws change or the tax authorities determine that management’s assumptions were inappropriate, the result and adjustments required could have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations. M&T cannot predict the nature or timing of future changes in monetary, tax and other policies or the effect that they may have on the Company’s business activities, financial condition and results of operations. 28 The discontinuation of LIBOR as a permissible rate index in new contracts, the formal announcement of LIBOR’s cessation date, and the development of SOFR and other alternative benchmark indices to replace LIBOR could adversely impact the Company’s business and results of operations. The Company’s floating-rate funding, certain hedging transactions and a significant portion of the Company’s products, such as floating-rate loans and mortgages, determine the applicable interest rate or payment amount by reference to a benchmark rate, such as the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”), or to an alternative index. With respect to LIBOR, the United Kingdom’s Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”), which regulates LIBOR, and the ICE Benchmark Administration (“IBA”), the administrator of LIBOR, have announced that the publication of all tenors of USD LIBOR, which to date have been calculated and determined by the IBA based on the required submissions by independent panel banks, will cease to exist and/or cease to be “representative” after June 30, 2023. In response and in coordination, U.S. federal bank regulators, including the Federal Reserve, required U.S. banks to cease using USD LIBOR as a reference rate in new contracts by December 31, 2021. Concurrently, the Federal Reserve-sponsored Alternative Reference Rates Committee (“ARRC”) finalized and issued recommendations for the use of so-called “hardwired” LIBOR fallback language that, when incorporated into existing LIBOR-based loan documents, provides for, upon LIBOR’s permanent cessation (or an announcement from LIBOR’s administrator or certain governmental authorities that LIBOR is no longer representative of the underlying market), the replacement of LIBOR with the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”) as the benchmark index, with an appropriate spread adjustment that is representative of the historical difference between LIBOR and SOFR, which when added to SOFR would be intended to facilitate a value-neutral transition. Subsequently, the ARRC expanded its recommendation to include CME Term SOFR, a derivative of SOFR that is currently administered and published by the CME Group Benchmark Administration Limited. In 2021 M&T adopted hardwired fallback language modeled after the ARRC recommendations for use in all new commercial LIBOR loans, and continues to proactively seek amendments to its existing LIBOR-based commercial loan contracts to incorporate such hardwired fallback language or move to an alternative index prior to the cessation of LIBOR. SOFR is a measure of the cost of borrowing cash overnight, collateralized by U.S. Treasury securities, and is based on directly observable U.S. Treasury-based repurchase transactions. The fact that SOFR is a secured overnight rate and considered a “risk free” rate, while LIBOR is an unsecured term rate that factors in credit risk, means that SOFR may perform differently than LIBOR, and those differences may be material, particularly in times of economic stress, negatively impacting the Company’s profitability. While the ARRC has maintained its recommendation that SOFR is the preferred replacement for LIBOR, some industry participants have questioned whether a “risk free” SOFR-based rate is an ideal replacement for LIBOR in the commercial lending market and suggesting that a credit-sensitive component or alternative be considered and developed. One such credit sensitive alternative is the Bloomberg Short-Term Bank Yield Index (BSBY), which gained some modest attention and use in the commercial lending market in the latter half of 2021 (primarily in syndicated loans), but has since gained little traction. Whether BSBY or other alternatives to SOFR develop and gain any significant market traction in the future are unknown and unpredictable at this time, and this adds further market uncertainty with respect to introducing alternative benchmark rates for new contracts. LIBOR cessation is also impacting the derivatives market. In October 2020, The International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA), published the IBOR Fallbacks Supplement (Supplement) and IBOR Fallbacks Protocol (Protocol). The Supplement, which became effective on January 25, 2021, amends existing standard definitions for interest rate derivatives to incorporate robust fallbacks to the SOFR benchmark for derivatives linked to LIBOR. The Protocol enables market 29 participants to incorporate these revisions into their legacy non-cleared derivatives trades with other counterparties that choose to adhere to the Protocol. The fallbacks apply following a permanent cessation of LIBOR or following a determination by the FCA that LIBOR is no longer representative of the underlying market. M&T and M&T Bank adhered to the Protocol on November 5, 2020, and the Company is in the process of remediating its interest rate swap hedging transactions with certain of its end user customers, (i.e., borrowers that have hedged their interest rate payment obligations) who have not already adhered to, or amended their legacy derivatives transactions consistent with, the Protocol. If the Company is not able to agree to appropriate LIBOR fallbacks with these customers, there will be uncertainty as to how to value and determine the Company’s rights and obligations under legacy derivatives contracts. With respect to the Company’s cleared interest rate derivatives that reference LIBOR, both the CME and LCH clearinghouses have adopted the same relevant SOFR benchmark fallbacks of the Supplement and Protocol which also became effective on January 25, 2021. The Company has outstanding issuances, or acts as an administrative (or calculation) agent or in other capacities, across various maturities of securities referencing LIBOR in which the underlying contracts do not contemplate cessation or contemplate cessation but do so in a manner that may create other risks (“Tough Legacy Contracts”). Some of these contracts provide for selecting replacement rates in a manner that presents significant challenges or that gives the Company or another party discretion to select a rate or provide for determination of a reference rate. In March 2022, the United States Congress enacted the Adjustable Interest Rate (LIBOR) Act ("LIBOR Act") which provides both a statutory framework to replace USD LIBOR with a benchmark rate based on SOFR for Tough Legacy Contracts governed by U.S. law and a safe harbor provision for those entities selecting a SOFR-based rate identified by the Federal Reserve. Under the LIBOR Act, the Federal Reserve must adopt rules to, among other things, identify the applicable SOFR-based replacement rate. In December 2022, the Federal Reserve adopted rules, which identify different SOFR-based replacement rates for derivative contracts, for cash instruments such as floating-rate notes and preferred stock, for consumer loans, for certain government-sponsored enterprise contracts and for certain asset-backed securities. Notwithstanding this availability of statutory frameworks to address Tough Legacy Contracts, there will likely be continued uncertainty surrounding the transition as these frameworks have not been tested, and the finalized regulations from the Federal reserve have not been issued and their effectiveness and ultimate impact is not certain. A substantial portion of the Company’s on- and off-balance sheet financial instruments (many of which have terms that extend beyond 2023) are indexed to LIBOR, including interest rate swap agreements and other contracts used for hedging and non-hedging purposes, loans to commercial customers and consumers (including mortgage loans and other loans), and long-term borrowings. Uncertainty as to the impact of the discontinuation of LIBOR and the replacement of LIBOR with a SOFR-based index or any alternative index could result in pricing volatility, loss of market share in certain products, adverse tax or accounting impacts under certain circumstances, and compliance, legal and operational costs and risks. The market’s transition from LIBOR to an alternative reference rate will be complex and unpredictable, giving rise to a variety of risks, including operational risks, risks of value transfer between contract parties, the potential for customer disputes and litigation, as well as regulatory scrutiny. The Company’s business and performance is vulnerable to the impact of volatility in debt and equity markets. As most of the Company’s assets and liabilities are financial in nature, the Company’s performance is sensitive to the performance of the financial markets. Turmoil and volatility in U.S. and global financial markets can be a major contributory factor to overall weak economic conditions, leading to some of 30 the risks discussed herein, including the impaired ability of borrowers and other counterparties to meet obligations to the Company. Financial market volatility may: • Affect the value or liquidity of the Company’s on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments. • Affect the value of capitalized servicing assets. • Affect M&T’s ability to access capital markets to raise funds. Inability to access capital markets if needed, at cost effective rates, could adversely affect the Company’s liquidity and results of operations. • Affect the value of the assets that the Company manages or otherwise administers or services for others. Although the Company is not directly impacted by changes in the value of such assets, decreases in the value of those assets would affect related fee income and could result in decreased demand for the Company’s services. • Impact the nature, profitability or risk profile of the financial transactions in which the Company engages. Volatility in the markets for real estate and other assets commonly securing financial products has been and may continue to be a significant contributor to overall volatility in financial markets. In addition, unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by supply chain disruptions, the imposition of tariffs or other limitations on international trade and travel, as well as elevated inflation, which can result in market volatility, negatively impact client activity, and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s regional concentrations expose it to adverse economic conditions in its primary retail banking office footprint. The Company’s core banking business is largely concentrated within the Company’s retail banking office network footprint, located principally in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions. Therefore, the Company is, or in the future may be, particularly vulnerable to adverse changes in economic conditions in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions. The credit quality of the Company’s borrowers may deteriorate for a number of reasons that are outside the Company’s control, including as a result of prevailing economic and market conditions and asset valuations. The trends and risks affecting borrower credit quality, particularly in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions, have caused, and in the future may cause, the Company to experience impairment charges, which are reductions in the recoverable value of an asset, increased purchase demands, wherein customers make withdrawals with minimum notice, higher costs (e.g. servicing, foreclosure, property maintenance), additional write-downs and losses and a potential impact to engage in lending transactions based on a reduction of customer deposits, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Compliance and the Regulatory Environment The Company is subject to extensive government regulation and supervision and this regulatory environment can be and has been significantly impacted by financial regulatory reform initiatives. The Company is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect consumers, depositors and the financial system as a whole, not securities holders, including the holders of common stock. These regulations and supervisory guidance affect the Company’s sale and lending practices, capital structure, capital distributions and dividend policy, investment practices, growth and expansionary activity, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies, or to meet supervisory expectations, could result in civil or criminal penalties, including monetary penalties, the loss of FDIC insurance, the revocation of a banking 31 charter, other sanctions by regulatory agencies, and/or reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In this regard, government authorities, including the bank regulatory agencies, can pursue aggressive enforcement actions with respect to compliance and other legal matters involving financial activities, which heightens the risks associated with actual and perceived compliance failures and may also adversely affect the Company’s ability to enter into certain transactions or engage in certain activities, or obtain necessary regulatory approvals in connection therewith. In general, the amounts paid by financial institutions in settlement of proceedings or investigations have increased substantially and are likely to remain elevated. In some cases, governmental authorities have required criminal pleas or admissions of wrongdoing as part of such settlements, which could have significant collateral consequences for a financial institution, including loss of customers, restrictions on the ability to access the capital markets, and the inability to operate certain businesses or offer certain products for a period of time. In addition, enforcement matters could impact the Company’s supervisory and CRA ratings, which may in turn restrict or limit the Company’s activities. A prior enforcement action also increases the risk that regulators and governmental authorities pursue formal enforcement actions in connection with the resolution of an inquiry or investigation, even if unrelated to the prior enforcement action. Any new regulatory requirements, changes to existing requirements, or changes to interpretations of requirements could require changes to the Company’s businesses, result in increased compliance costs and affect the profitability of such businesses. Additionally, such activity could affect the behaviors of third parties with which the Company deals in the ordinary course of business, such as rating agencies, insurance companies and investors. Heightened regulatory scrutiny, requirements or expectations could have significant effects on the Company, including through restrictions on growth or required remediation activities and associated resource requirements, and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. There have been significant revisions to the laws and regulations applicable to the Company that have been enacted or proposed in recent years, and additional proposed changes are anticipated. Many of these and other rules to implement the changes have yet to be finalized, and the final timing, scope and impact of these changes to the regulatory framework applicable to financial institutions remain uncertain. For more information on the regulations to which the Company is subject and recent initiatives to reform financial institution regulation, see Part I, Item 1 — Business. The Company may be subject to more stringent capital and liquidity requirements. Bank holding companies, including M&T, are subject to capital and liquidity requirements and standards imposed as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act (as amended by EGRRCPA) and the U.S. Basel III-based capital rules. For additional information, see “Capital Requirements” under Part I, Item 1 — Business. Regulators have implemented and may, from time to time, implement changes to these regulatory capital adequacy and liquidity requirements. If the Company fails to meet these minimum capital adequacy and liquidity requirements and other regulatory requirements, its business activities, including lending, and its ability to expand, either organically or through acquisitions, could be limited. It could also result in M&T being required to take steps to increase its regulatory capital that may be dilutive to shareholders or limit its ability to pay dividends or otherwise return capital to shareholders, or sell or refrain from acquiring assets. In addition, the liquidity-related provisions of the Federal Reserve’s liquidity-related enhanced prudential supervision requirements may reduce the Company’s ability to invest in other longer-term assets even if deemed more desirable from a balance sheet management perspective, which could adversely affect its net interest income and net interest margin. The federal bank regulators have not yet released a proposal to implement the significant revisions of the Basel capital framework announced by the Basel Committee in December 2017, and the impact 32 on the Company of these revisions will depend on the manner in which they are implemented in the U.S. with respect to firms such as M&T. M&T’s ability to return capital to shareholders and to pay dividends on common stock may be adversely affected by market and other factors outside of its control and will depend, in part, on the results of supervisory stress tests administered by the Federal Reserve. Any decision by M&T to return capital to shareholders, whether through a common stock dividend or a common stock share repurchase program, requires the approval of M&T’s Board of Directors and must comply with applicable capital regulations, including the maintenance of capital ratios exceeding specified minimum levels and applicable buffers. For bank holding companies designated as Category IV institutions under the Tailoring Rules, including M&T, the Federal Reserve conducts biennial supervisory stress tests required under the Dodd-Frank Act whereby the BHC’s financial position is tested under assumed severely adverse economic conditions. The results of those stress tests are incorporated in the determination of M&T’s Stress Capital Buffer. As a general matter, if M&T is unable to maintain capital in excess of regulatory minimum levels inclusive of its Stress Capital Buffer, it would be subject to limitations on its ability to make capital distributions, including paying dividends and repurchasing stock. In June 2022, the Federal Reserve released the results of its most recent supervisory stress tests, and based on those results, on October 1, 2022, M&T’s stress capital buffer of 4.7% became effective. The results of future supervisory stress tests are uncertain, and a more severe outcome may result in a higher Stress Capital Buffer and an increase in M&T’s effective capital requirements. An increased Stress Capital Buffer may restrict M&T’s ability to return capital to shareholders, including through paying dividends, entering into acquisitions or repurchasing its common stock, which in turn could negatively impact market and investor perceptions of M&T. The Federal Reserve has in the past implemented, and may in the future implement, restrictions on share repurchase programs and common stock dividends at large bank holding companies such as M&T, including in response to adverse or uncertain economic conditions. If an orderly liquidation of a systemically important BHC or non-bank financial company were triggered, M&T could face assessments for the Orderly Liquidation Fund (“OLF”). The Dodd-Frank Act created a mechanism, the OLF, for liquidation of systemically important bank holding companies and non-bank financial companies. The OLF is administered by the FDIC and is based on the FDIC’s bank resolution model. The Secretary of the U.S. Treasury may trigger a liquidation under this authority after consultation with the President of the U.S. and after receiving a recommendation from the boards of the FDIC and the Federal Reserve upon a two-thirds vote. Liquidation proceedings will be funded by the OLF, which will borrow from the U.S. Treasury and impose risk-based assessments on covered financial companies. Risk-based assessments would be first made on entities that received more in the resolution than they would have received in the liquidation to the extent of such excess, and second, if necessary, on, among others, bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as M&T. Any such assessments may adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Credit Risk Deteriorating credit quality could adversely impact the Company. As a lender, the Company is exposed to the risk that customers will be unable to repay their loans and other obligations in accordance with the terms of the relevant agreements, and that any collateral securing the loans and obligations may be insufficient to assure full repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and entering into other financial arrangements. 33 Factors that influence the Company’s credit loss experience include overall economic conditions affecting businesses and consumers, generally, but also residential and commercial real estate valuations, in particular, given the size of the Company’s real estate loan portfolios. Factors that can influence the Company’s credit loss experience include: (i) the impact of residential real estate values on loans to residential real estate builders and developers and other loans secured by residential real estate; (ii) the concentrations of commercial real estate loans in the Company’s loan portfolio, including in the New York City area; (iii) the amount of commercial and industrial loans to businesses in areas of New York State outside of the New York City area and in central Pennsylvania that have historically experienced less economic growth and vitality than many other regions of the country; (iv) the repayment performance associated with first and second lien loans secured by residential real estate; and (v) the size of the Company’s portfolio of loans to individual consumers, which historically have experienced higher net charge-offs as a percentage of loans outstanding than loans to other types of borrowers. The Company’s credit risk and the performance of its lending portfolios may be affected by concentration in an industry, geography or asset type. As described further in this “Risk Factors” section, the Company’s credit risks may be increased by the impacts of inflation, poor or recessionary economic conditions and financial market volatility. The COVID-19 pandemic created economic and financial disruptions that adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, customers. Commercial real estate valuations can be highly subjective as they are based upon many assumptions. Such valuations can be significantly affected over relatively short periods of time by changes in business climate, economic conditions, interest rates and, in many cases, the results of operations of businesses and other occupants of the real property. Emerging and evolving factors such as the shift to work-from-home or hybrid-work arrangements, changing consumer preferences (including for online shopping), COVID-19-related restrictions and resulting changes in occupancy rates as a result of these and other trends can also impact such valuations over relatively short periods. Similarly, residential real estate valuations can be impacted by housing trends, the availability of financing at reasonable interest rates, governmental policy regarding housing and housing finance, and general economic conditions affecting consumers, as described above. The Company maintains an allowance for credit losses which represents, in management’s judgment, the amount of losses expected in the loan and lease portfolio. The allowance is determined by management’s evaluation of the loan and lease portfolio based on such factors as the differing economic risks associated with each loan category, the current financial condition of specific borrowers, the economic environment in which borrowers operate, the level of delinquent loans, the value of any collateral and, where applicable, the existence of any guarantees or indemnifications. Management believes that the allowance for credit losses as of December 31, 2022 appropriately reflects expected credit losses in the loan and lease portfolio. However, there is no assurance that the allowance is sufficient to cover all credit losses that may occur. The Company may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, the Company’s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit due to or derivative exposure of the Company. Any resulting losses could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 34 Liquidity Risk The Company must maintain adequate sources of funding and liquidity. The Company must maintain adequate funding sources in the normal course of business to support its operations and fund outstanding liabilities, as well as meet regulatory requirements and supervisory expectations. The Company primarily relies on deposits to be a low cost and stable source of funding for the loans it makes and the operations of its business. Core customer deposits, which include noninterest-bearing deposits, interest-bearing transaction accounts, savings deposits and time deposits of $250,000 or less, have historically provided the Company with a sizeable source of relatively stable and low-cost funds. In addition to customer deposits, sources of liquidity include borrowings from securities dealers, various Federal Home Loan Banks and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, as well as the debt and equity capital markets. The Company’s liquidity and ability to fund and operate the business could be materially adversely affected by a variety of conditions and factors, including financial and credit market disruptions and volatility or a lack of market or customer confidence in financial markets in general, which may result in a loss of customer deposits or outflows of cash or collateral and/or ability to access capital markets on favorable terms. Negative news about the Company or the financial services industry generally may reduce market or customer confidence in the Company, which could in turn materially adversely affect the Company’s liquidity and funding. Such reputational damage may result in the loss of customer deposits, the inability to sell or securitize loans or other assets, and downgrades in one or more of the Company’s credit ratings, and may also negatively affect the Company’s ability to access the capital markets. A downgrade in the Company’s credit ratings, which could result from general industry-wide or regulatory factors not solely related to the Company, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to borrow funds, including by raising the cost of borrowings substantially, and could cause creditors and business counterparties to raise collateral requirements or take other actions that could adversely affect M&T’s ability to raise capital. Many of the above conditions and factors may be caused by events over which M&T has little or no control. There can be no assurance that significant disruption and volatility in the financial markets will not occur in the future. Regulatory changes relating to liquidity and risk management may also negatively impact the Company’s results of operations and competitive position. Various regulations have been adopted to impose more stringent liquidity requirements for large financial institutions, including the Company. These regulations address, among other matters, liquidity stress testing and minimum liquidity requirements. The application of certain of these regulations to banking organizations, such as the Company, have been modified, including in connection with the implementation of the tailoring rules in the EGRRCPA. If the Company is unable to continue to fund assets through customer bank deposits or access funding sources on favorable terms or if the Company suffers an increase in borrowing costs or otherwise fails to manage liquidity effectively, the Company’s liquidity, operating margins, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. The Company may also need to raise additional capital and liquidity through the issuance of stock, which could dilute the ownership of existing stockholders, or reduce or even eliminate common stock dividends or share repurchases to preserve capital and liquidity. If the Company is unable to maintain or grow its deposits, it may be subject to paying higher funding costs. The total amount that the Company pays for funding costs is dependent, in part, on the Company’s ability to maintain or grow its deposits. If the Company is unable to sufficiently maintain or grow its deposits to meet liquidity objectives, it may be subject to paying higher funding costs. The Company competes with banks and other financial services companies for deposits. Recent increases in 35 short-term interest rates have resulted in and may continue to result in more intense competition in deposit pricing. If competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits, the Company’s funding costs may increase, either because the Company raises rates to avoid losing deposits or because the Company loses deposits and must rely on more expensive sources of funding. Customers may also move noninterest-bearing deposits to interest bearing accounts, increasing the cost of those deposits. Checking and savings account balances and other forms of customer deposits may decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. The Company’s bank customers could withdraw their money and put it in alternative investments, causing the Company to lose a lower cost source of funding. Higher funding costs could reduce the Company’s net interest margin and net interest income. M&T relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for its liquidity. M&T is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. M&T typically receives substantially all of its revenue from subsidiary dividends. These dividends are M&T’s principal source of funds to pay dividends on common and preferred stock, pay interest and principal on its debt, and fund purchases of its common stock. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations, as well as regulatory expectations, limit the amount of dividends that M&T’s banking subsidiaries and certain non-bank subsidiaries may pay. Regulatory scrutiny of capital levels at bank holding companies and insured depository institution subsidiaries has increased in recent years and has resulted in increased regulatory focus on all aspects of capital planning, including dividends and other distributions to shareholders of banks, such as parent bank holding companies. See “Item 1 — Business, Supervision and Regulation of the Company, Distributions” for a discussion of regulatory and other restrictions on dividend declarations. Also, M&T’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of that subsidiary’s creditors. Limitations on M&T’s ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on its liquidity and ability to pay dividends on its stock or interest and principal on its debt, and ability to fund purchases of its common stock. Strategic Risk The financial services industry is highly competitive and creates competitive pressures that could adversely affect the Company’s revenue and profitability. The financial services industry in which the Company operates is highly competitive. The Company competes not only with commercial and other banks and thrifts, but also with private credit funds, insurance companies, mutual funds, hedge funds, securities brokerage firms, financial technology companies and other companies offering financial services in the U.S., globally and over the Internet. Some of the Company’s non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations the Company is, and may have greater flexibility in competing for business. In particular, the activity and prominence of so-called marketplace lenders and other technological financial services companies has grown significantly in recent years and is expected to continue growing. The Company competes on the basis of several factors, including capital, access to capital, revenue generation, products, services, transaction execution, innovation, reputation and price. Over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms. These developments have and could continue to result in the Company’s competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. The Company has and may continue to experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of its competitors seek to increase market share. 36 Finally, technological change is influencing how individuals and firms conduct their financial affairs and is changing the delivery channels for financial services. Financial technology providers, who invest substantial resources in developing and designing new technology (in particular digital and mobile technology) are beginning to offer more traditional banking products (either directly or through bank partnerships) and may in the future be able to provide additional services by obtaining a bank-like charter, such as the OCC’s fintech charter. In addition, the emergence, adoption and evolution of new technologies that do not require intermediation, including distributed ledgers such as digital assets and blockchain, as well as advances in robotic process automation, could significantly affect the competition for financial services. As a result, the Company has had and will likely continue to have to contend with a broader range of competitors including many that are not located within the geographic footprint of its banking office network. Further, along with other participants in the financial services industry, the Company frequently attempts to introduce new technology-driven products and services that are aimed at allowing the Company to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services that allow it to remain competitive or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Difficulties in obtaining regulatory approval for acquisitions and in combining the operations of acquired entities with the Company’s own operations may prevent M&T from achieving the expected benefits from its acquisitions. M&T has expanded its business through past acquisitions and may do so in the future. The Company’s ability to complete acquisitions is in many instances subject to regulatory approval, and the Company cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals would be granted. Any requisite approval could be delayed or not obtained at all, including due to, among other factors, an adverse development in either party’s regulatory standing or in any other factors considered by regulators when granting such approval, including factors not known at the time of entering into the definitive agreement for the acquisition or submission of the related application for regulatory approval, and factors that may arise subsequently; governmental, political or community group inquiries, investigations or opposition; or changes in legislation or the political environment more generally. In addition, inherent uncertainties exist when integrating the operations of an acquired entity. Acquiring other entities involves potential risks that could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, including: • Inability to fully achieve the Company’s strategic objectives and planned operating efficiencies in an acquisition. • Issues arising during transition and integration. • Disruption of the Company’s business and diversion of management’s time and attention. • Exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of acquired institutions. • Loss of key employees and customers of acquired institutions. • Dilution in the ownership percentage of holders of M&T common stock. • Payment of a premium over book and market values that may dilute the Company’s tangible book value and earnings per common share in the short and long-term. • Inability to realize the expected benefits of the acquisition due to lower financial results pertaining to the acquired entity (for example, the Company could experience higher credit losses, incur higher operating expenses or realize less revenue than originally anticipated related to an acquired entity). • Changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that could impair or eliminate the expected benefits of merger and acquisition activities. 37 M&T could suffer if it fails to attract and retain skilled personnel. M&T’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key individuals and to have a diverse workforce. Competition for qualified and diverse candidates in the activities in which the Company engages and markets that the Company serves is significant, and the Company may not be able to hire candidates and retain them. Growth in the Company’s business, including through acquisitions, may increase its need for additional qualified personnel. The Company is increasingly competing for personnel with financial technology providers and other less regulated entities who may not have the same limitations on compensation as the Company does. Recruiting and compensation costs may increase as a result of changes in the marketplace, which may increase costs and adversely impact the Company. The increase in remote and hybrid work arrangements and opportunities in regional, national and global labor markets has also increased competition for the Company to attract and retain skilled personnel. The Company’s current or future approach to in-office and remote-work arrangements may not meet the needs or expectations of current or prospective employees or may not be perceived as favorable as compared with the arrangements offered by other companies, which could adversely affect the Company’s ability to attract and retain employees. If the Company is not able to hire or retain highly skilled, qualified and diverse individuals, it may be unable to execute its business strategies and may suffer adverse consequences to its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s compensation practices are subject to review and oversight by the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the FDIC and other regulators. The federal banking agencies have issued joint guidance on executive compensation designed to help ensure that a banking organization’s incentive compensation policies do not encourage imprudent risk taking and are consistent with the safety and soundness of the organization. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act required those agencies, along with the SEC, to adopt rules to require reporting of incentive compensation and to prohibit certain compensation arrangements. If as a result of complying with such rules the Company is unable to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain its competitive position, or if the compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more significant, the Company’s performance, including its competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. Operational Risk The Company is subject to operational risk which could adversely affect the Company’s business and reputation and create material legal and financial exposure. Like all businesses, the Company is subject to operational risk, which represents the risk of loss resulting from human error or misconduct, inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, and external events, including the risk of loss resulting from fraud by employees or persons outside the company, and breaches in data security. Operational risk also encompasses reputational risk and compliance and legal risk, which is the risk of loss from violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices or ethical standards, as well as the risk of noncompliance with contractual and other obligations. The Company is also exposed to operational risk through outsourcing arrangements, and the effect that changes in circumstances or capabilities of its outsourcing vendors can have on the Company’s ability to continue to perform operational functions necessary to its business. Although the Company seeks to mitigate operational risk through a system of internal controls that are reviewed and updated, no system of controls, however well designed and maintained, is infallible. Control weaknesses or failures or other operational risks could result in charges, increased operational costs, harm to the Company’s reputation or foregone business opportunities. 38 The Company’s information systems may experience interruptions or breaches in security, including due to events beyond the Company’s control. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems, including those of third-party service providers, to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in disruptions to its accounting, deposit, loan and other systems, and adversely affect the Company’s customer relationships. Disruption of operating systems caused by events beyond the Company’s control may include computer viruses, electrical or telecommunications outages, quality of vulnerability patches, cyber security attacks (including Distributed Denial of Service attacks, which occur when legitimate users are unable to access information systems, devices, or other network resources due to the actions of a malicious cyber threat actor), damage to property or physical assets, or events arising from political protests or terrorist acts. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of these possible events, there can be no assurance that any such failure, disruption, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if any does occur, that it can be sufficiently or timely remediated. Information security risks for large financial institutions such as M&T have increased significantly in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, such as digital and mobile banking to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, nation-states, activists and other external parties. There have been increasing efforts on the part of third parties, including through cyber security attacks, to breach data security at financial institutions or with respect to financial transactions. There have been numerous instances involving financial services and consumer-based companies reporting unauthorized access to and disclosure of client or customer information or the destruction or theft of corporate data, including by executive impersonation and third party vendors, or the freezing of operating systems and databases making them inaccessible or unusable. There have also been several highly publicized cases where hackers have requested “ransom” payments in exchange for not disclosing customer information or for restoring access to, or the usage of, operating systems and databases. Ransomware is a form of malicious software, known as “malware,” designed to block access to, and often encrypt, computer systems or data. Once the victim’s computer system or data is locked down and encrypted, rendering it essentially useless, the malicious cyber actor then extorts the victim by demanding a ransom payment in exchange for providing a method to decrypt it. The attacker may also copy the victim’s data in the course of the attack and threaten to sell or publish the data if the ransom is not paid. Ransomware attacks can result in a loss of business functionality and of sensitive data. As cyber security threats continue to evolve, the Company expects to continue to expend significant additional resources to modify or enhance its layers of defense or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. The techniques used by cyber security criminals change frequently, may not be recognized until launched and can be initiated by a variety of actors, including terrorist organizations and hostile foreign governments. These techniques may include attempts to fraudulently induce employees, customers or others to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to data or systems. These risks may increase as the use of mobile payment and other Internet-based applications expands. Further, third parties with which the Company does business, as well as vendors and other third parties with which the Company’s customers do business, can also be sources of information security risk to the Company, particularly where activities of customers are beyond the Company’s security and control systems, such as through the use of the Internet, personal computers, tablets, smart phones and other mobile services. Risks relating to cyber attacks on vendors and other third parties, including supply chain attacks affecting software and information technology service providers, have been rising as such attacks become increasingly frequent and severe. Security breaches affecting the Company’s customers, or systems breakdowns, failures, security breaches or employee misconduct affecting such 39 other third parties, may require the Company to take steps to protect the integrity of its own systems or to safeguard confidential information of the Company or its customers, thereby increasing the Company’s operational costs and adversely affecting its business. Additionally, successful cyber security attacks at other large financial institutions, whether or not the Company is impacted, could lead to a general loss of customer confidence in financial institutions that could negatively affect M&T, including harming the market perception of the effectiveness of the Company’s security measures or the financial system in general which could result in reduced use of the Company’s financial products. Though the Company has insurance against some cyber security risks and attacks, it may not be sufficient to offset the impact of a material loss event. The Company, as well as third parties with which the Company does business, has expanded the use of cloud service providers, which could experience system breakdowns or failures, outages, downtime, cyber security-attacks, negative changes to financial condition, bankruptcy, or other adverse conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and reputation. For example, during 2021, there were a number of widely publicized cases of outages in connection with access to cloud service providers. Thus, increasing the amount of infrastructure that the Company or its vendors and service providers outsource to the cloud or to other parties may increase M&T’s risk exposure. The failure to properly upgrade or maintain the computer systems could result in greater susceptibility to attacks, particularly in light of the greater frequency and severity of attacks in recent years, as well as the growing prevalence of supply chain attacks affecting software and information technology service providers. Failures related to upgrades and maintenance also increase risks related to unauthorized access and misuse, as well as the Company’s ability to achieve its business continuity and resiliency objectives. The Company could incur higher costs, experience lower revenue, and suffer reputational damage in the event of the theft, loss or misuse of information, including due to a cyber security attack. Like other financial services firms, the systems, networks and devices of the Company, its customers, employees, service providers or other third parties with whom the Company interacts continue to be the subject of attempted unauthorized access, denial-of-service attacks, computer viruses, hacking, malware, ransomware, phishing or other forms of social engineering, and cyber security attacks designed to obtain confidential information, destroy data, disrupt or degrade service, eliminate access or cause other damage. These threats may arise from human error, fraud on the part of employees, insiders or third parties or may result from accidental technology failure or vulnerabilities of suppliers through supply chain attacks. Further, cyber security and information security risks for financial institutions have generally increased because of, among other things, the growth of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies (including computers, smartphones, and other mobile devices outside the Company’s systems) by customers to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, fraudsters, hackers, terrorists, activists, instrumentalities of foreign governments and other external parties. Although the Company believes that a robust suite of authentication and layered security controls, data encryption and tokenization, threat intelligence, anti-malware defenses and vulnerability management tools exist, the failure of any of these controls could result in a failure to detect, mitigate or remediate these risks in a timely manner. Moreover, potential new regulations may require the Company to disclose information about a cybersecurity event before it has been resolved or fully investigated. Further, as the Company expands its mobile and digital capabilities, cyber security risks increase. A disruption or breach, including as a result of a cyber security attack, or media reports of perceived security vulnerabilities at the Company or at third-party service providers could result in significant legal and financial exposure, regulatory intervention, remediation costs, damage to reputation or loss of confidence in the security of systems, products and services that could adversely 40 affect the Company’s business. Like other U.S. financial services providers, the Company continues to be targeted with evolving and adaptive cyber security threats from sophisticated third parties. Although the Company is not aware of any material losses relating to cyber security incidents, there can be no assurance that unauthorized access or cyber security incidents will not become known or occur or that the Company will not suffer such losses in the future. The Company is subject to laws and regulations relating to the privacy of the information of customers, clients, employees or others, and any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose the Company to liability and/or reputational damage The Company is also subject to laws and regulations relating to the privacy of the information of customers, clients, employees or others, and any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose the Company to liability and/or reputational damage. New privacy and data protection initiatives will impose additional operational burdens on the Company, may limit the Company’s ability to pursue desirable business initiatives and increase the risks associated with any future use of customer data. Significant examples include the General Data Protection Regulation ("GDPR"), the UK GDPR, known as The Data Protection Act of 2018, and the California Consumer Privacy Act. Compliance with these and other laws and regulations may require changes to policies, procedures and technology for information security and segregation of data, which could, among other things, make the Company more vulnerable to operational failures, and to monetary penalties, litigation or regulatory enforcement actions for breach of such laws and regulations. As privacy-related laws and regulations are implemented, they may also limit how companies like M&T can use personal data and impose obligations on companies in their management of such data. The time and resources needed for the Company to comply with such laws and regulations, as well as its potential liability for non-compliance and reporting obligations in the case of data breaches, may significantly increase. The impacts will be greater to the extent requirements vary across jurisdictions. M&T relies on other companies to provide key components of the Company’s business infrastructure. Third parties provide key components of the Company’s business infrastructure such as banking services, processing, and Internet connections and network access. Any disruption in such services provided by these third parties or any failure of these third parties to handle current or higher volumes of use could adversely affect the Company’s ability to deliver products and services to clients and otherwise to conduct business. Technological or financial difficulties of a third party service provider could adversely affect the Company’s business to the extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation of services provided by that party. The Company may not be insured against all types of losses as a result of third party failures and insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses resulting from system failures or other disruptions. Failures in the Company’s business infrastructure could interrupt the operations or increase the costs of doing business. Additionally, the Company is exposed to the risk that a service disruption at a common service provider to the Company’s third-party service providers could impede their ability to provide services to the Company. Notwithstanding any attempts to diversify its reliance on third parties, the Company may not be able to effectively mitigate operational risks relating to its vendors’ use of common service providers. The Company is or may become involved from time to time in suits, legal proceedings, information-gathering requests, investigations and proceedings by governmental and self-regulatory agencies that may lead to adverse consequences. Many aspects of the Company’s business and operations involve substantial risk of legal liability. M&T and/or its subsidiaries have been named or threatened to be named as defendants in various 41 lawsuits arising from its or its subsidiaries’ business activities (and in some cases from the activities of companies M&T has acquired). In addition, from time to time, M&T is, or may become, the subject of governmental and self-regulatory agency information-gathering requests, reviews, investigations and proceedings and other forms of regulatory inquiry, including by bank and other regulatory agencies, the SEC and law enforcement authorities. The SEC has announced a policy of seeking admissions of liability in certain settled cases, which could adversely impact the defense of private litigation. M&T is also at risk with respect to its obligations to indemnify directors and officers of it and its subsidiaries in connection with certain legal matters as well as in situations where it has agreed to indemnify others for losses related to legal proceedings, including for litigation and governmental investigations and inquiries, such as in connection with the purchase or sale of a business or assets. The results of such proceedings could lead to significant civil or criminal penalties, including monetary penalties, damages, adverse judgments, settlements, fines, injunctions, restrictions on the way in which the Company conducts its business, or reputational harm. Although the Company establishes accruals for legal proceedings when information related to the loss contingencies represented by those matters indicates both that a loss is probable and that the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated, the Company does not have accruals for all legal proceedings where it faces a risk of loss. In addition, due to the inherent subjectivity of the assessments and unpredictability of the outcome of legal proceedings, amounts accrued may not represent the ultimate loss to the Company from the legal proceedings in question. Thus, the Company’s ultimate losses may be higher, and possibly significantly so, than the amounts accrued for legal loss contingencies, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Business Risk Changes in accounting standards could impact the Company’s reported financial condition and results of operations. The accounting standard setters, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the SEC and other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which would result in the restating of the Company’s prior period financial statements. Information about recently adopted and not as yet adopted accounting standards is included in note 27 of Notes to Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplemental Data of this Form 10-K. The Company’s reported financial condition and results of operations depend on management’s selection of accounting methods and require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. Accounting policies and processes are fundamental to the Company’s reported financial condition and results of operations. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the reported amounts of assets or liabilities and financial results. Several of M&T’s accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. Pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles, management is required to make certain assumptions and estimates in preparing the Company’s financial statements. If assumptions or estimates underlying the Company’s financial statements are incorrect, the Company may experience material losses. 42 Management has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management’s judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments and contingencies. A variety of factors could affect the ultimate value that is obtained either when earning income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset, valuing an asset or liability, or recognizing or reducing a liability. M&T has established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. In addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. Because of the uncertainty surrounding judgments and the estimates pertaining to these matters, M&T could be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior period financial statements if those judgments and estimates prove to be incorrect. For additional information, see Part II, Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, “Critical Accounting Estimates” and Note 1, “Significant Accounting Policies,” of Notes to Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. The Company’s models used for business planning purposes could perform poorly or provide inadequate information. The Company uses quantitative models to assist in measuring risks and estimating or predicting certain financial values, among other uses. The Company uses models throughout many of its business lines, relying on them, along with its judgement, for many decision making processes. Examples of areas where the Company uses models include determining the pricing of various products, grading loans and extending credit, measuring interest rate and other market risks, predicting or estimating losses, assessing capital adequacy, and calculating economic and regulatory capital levels. The Company also uses models to estimate the value of financial instruments and balance sheet items. Models generally evaluate the performance of various factors under anticipated future conditions, relying on historical data to help build the model and in part on assumptions as to the future, often with respect to macro-economic conditions, in order to generate the output. The models used may not accurately account for all variables and may fail to predict outcomes accurately and/or may overstate or understate certain effects. Poorly designed, implemented, or managed models or misused models, including in the choice of relevant historical data or future-looking assumptions, present the risk that the Company’s business decisions that consider information based on such models will be adversely affected due to inadequate or inaccurate information, which may damage the Company’s reputation and adversely affect its reported financial condition and results of operations. Even if the underlying assumptions used in the Company’s models are adequate, the models may be deficient due to errors in computer code, use of bad data during development or input into the model during model use, or the use of a model for a purpose outside the scope of the model’s design. As a result, the Company’s models may not fully capture or express the risks the Company faces, may suggest that the Company has sufficient capital when it may not, or may lead the Company to misjudge the business and economic environment in which it operates. If the models fail to produce reliable results on an ongoing basis, the Company may not make appropriate risk management, capital planning, or other business or financial decisions. Furthermore, strategies that the Company employs to manage and govern the risks associated with its use of models may not be effective or fully reliable, and as a result, the Company may realize losses or other lapses. Finally, information the Company provides to the public or to its regulators based on poorly designed, implemented, or managed models or misused models could be inaccurate or misleading. Some of the decisions that the Company’s regulators make, including those related to capital distributions to M&T’s stockholders, could be affected adversely due to their perception that the quality of the models used to generate the relevant information is insufficient. 43 The Company is exposed to reputational risk . A negative public opinion of the Company and its business can result from any number of activities, including the Company’s lending practices, corporate governance and regulatory compliance, acquisitions and actions taken by regulators or by community organizations in response to these activities. Significant harm to the Company’s reputation could also arise as a result of regulatory or governmental actions, litigation, employee misconduct or the activities of customers, other participants in the financial services industry or the Company’s contractual counterparties, such as service providers and vendors. A service disruption of the Company’s technology platforms or an impact to the Company’s branches could have a negative impact on a customer’s access to banking services and harm the Company’s reputation with customers. In particular, a cyber security event impacting the Company’s or its customers’ data could have a negative impact on the Company’s reputation and customer confidence in the Company and its cyber security. Damage to the Company’s reputation could also adversely affect its credit ratings and access to the capital markets. Additionally, whereas negative public opinion once was primarily driven by adverse news coverage in traditional media, the increased use of social media platforms facilitates the rapid dissemination of information or misinformation, which magnifies the potential harm to the Company’s reputation. The Company’s framework for managing risks may not be effective. The Company’s risk management framework is made up of various processes and strategies to manage its risk exposure. The framework to manage risk, including the framework’s underlying assumptions, may not be effective under all conditions and circumstances. If the risk management framework proves ineffective, the Company could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. The Company has established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report, and analyze the types of risk to which it is subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, compliance risk, strategic risk, reputational risk, and operational risk related to its employees, systems and vendors, among others. There are inherent limitations to the Company’s risk management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that it has not appropriately anticipated or identified. In addition, the Company relies on both qualitative and quantitative factors, including models, to monitor, measure and analyze certain risks and to estimate certain financial values, which are subject to error. The Company must also develop and maintain a culture of risk management among its employees, as well as manage risks associated with third parties, and could fail to do so effectively. If the Company’s risk management framework proves ineffective, the Company could incur litigation and negative regulatory consequences, and suffer unexpected losses that could affect its financial condition or results of operations. Pandemics, including COVID-19, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could significantly impact the Company’s business. Pandemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic, acts of war, military conflicts, including Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, or terrorism and other adverse external events, including severe weather and other natural disasters, could have a significant impact on the Company’s ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of the Company’s deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause the Company to incur additional expenses. Although the Company has established disaster recovery plans and procedures, and monitors for significant environmental effects on its properties or its investments, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on the Company. 44 For example, the COVID-19 pandemic created economic and financial disruptions that adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, the Company’s business, financial condition, capital and results of operations. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will in the future negatively affect the Company’s business, financial condition, capital and results of operations will depend on highly uncertain and unpredictable developments, including the scope and duration of any surges in the pandemic, the emergence of new variants, the effectiveness and distribution of vaccines and other public health measures, the continued effectiveness of M&T’s business continuity plans, the direct and indirect impact of the pandemic on the Company’s employees, customers, clients, counterparties, vendors, service providers and other market participants, and actions taken by governmental authorities and other third parties in response to the pandemic. Depending on the impact of pandemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, military conflicts such as Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, terrorism and other detrimental or destabilizing global and national events on general economic and market conditions, consumer and corporate spending and investment and borrowing patterns, there is a risk that adverse conditions could occur, including supply chain disruptions; higher inflation; decreased demand for the Company’s products and services or those of its borrowers, which could increase credit risk; challenges related to maintaining sufficient qualified personnel due to labor shortages, talent attrition, employee illness, willingness to return to work; and disruptions to business operations at the Company and at counterparties, vendors and other service providers. Even after such events fully subside, the U.S. economy may experience a prolonged economic slowdown or recession, and M&T anticipates the Company’s businesses would be materially and adversely affected by a prolonged economic slowdown or recession. The escalation or continuation of the war between Russia and Ukraine or other hostilities could result in, among other things, further increased risk of cyber attacks, supply chain disruptions, higher inflation, lower consumer demand and increased volatility in commodity, currency and other financial markets. To the extent that pandemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic, acts of war, including Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, or terrorism and other detrimental external events adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, liquidity, capital or results of operations, such factors may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this “Risk Factors” section. The Company’s assets, communities, operations, reputation and customers could be adversely affected by the impacts of climate risk. The Company operates in regions where its businesses and the activities of its customers could be negatively impacted by climate risk. This includes the physical risks resulting from chronic shifts in climate, such as rising average global temperatures, rising sea levels and acute climate events, such as an increase in the frequency and severity of extreme weather events and natural disasters, including floods, wildfires, hurricanes and tornados. Such chronic shifts and events could damage or otherwise impact the value or productivity of customers’ assets and disrupt the Company’s operations and the operations of customers or third parties on which the Company relies. They could also result in market volatility, negatively impact the Company’s customers’ ability to repay outstanding loans, and damage or deteriorate the value of collateral. Over time such risks may result in both increasing premiums for and reduced availability of insurance and have a broader impact on the economy. Further, climate risk may manifest from efforts to transition to a low-carbon economy. Transition risks may arise from changes in consumer and business preferences, legislation, regulation, policy, and technological advancement associated with the changes necessary to limit climate change. Such risks may result in increased expenses or otherwise adversely impact the Company and its customers, including the ability of customers to repay outstanding loans. The Company could experience increased expenses resulting from climate-related strategic planning and market changes, as well as litigation and reputational harm as a result of negative public sentiment, regulatory scrutiny and reduced investor 45 and stakeholder confidence due to its climate change strategy and responses. For example, the Company’s reputation may be damaged and its financial condition could suffer as a result of the ineffective identification, monitoring or management of risks relating to providing financial services to certain industries or projects that are sensitive to a transition to a lower carbon economy, as well as any decisions the Company makes to continue to conduct or change its activities in response to considerations relating to climate change. Ongoing legislative or regulatory uncertainties and changes regarding appropriate climate risk management, practices and disclosures, such as the climate-related disclosure rules proposed by the SEC in 2022, may also result in higher regulatory, compliance and other expenses. In addition, the expectations of federal and state banking regulators, investors and other stakeholders are continuously evolving and may require financial institutions including the Company, to adhere to increased requirements and expectations regarding the disclosure and management of their climate risks and related lending, investment, operations and advisory activities. Discussions of the specific risks outlined above and other risks facing the Company are included within this Annual Report on Form 10-K in Part I, Item 1 “Business,” and Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Furthermore, in Part II, Item 7 under the heading “Forward-Looking Statements” is included a description of certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions identified by management that are difficult to predict and that could materially affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations, as well as the value of the Company’s financial instruments in general, and M&T common stock, in particular. In addition, the market price of M&T common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of other factors, including changes in securities analysts’ estimates of financial performance, volatility of stock market prices and volumes, rumors or erroneous information, changes in market valuations of similar companies and changes in accounting policies or procedures as may be required by the FASB or other regulatory agencies.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Corporate Profile and Significant Developments M&T Bank Corporation (“M&T”) is a bank holding company headquartered in Buffalo, New York with consolidated assets of $200.7 billion at December 31, 2022. The consolidated financial information presented herein reflects M&T and all of its subsidiaries, which are referred to collectively as “the Company.” M&T’s wholly owned bank subsidiaries are Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company (“M&T Bank”) and Wilmington Trust, National Association (“Wilmington Trust, N.A.”). Among other subsidiaries of M&T is M&T Securities, Inc. which provides institutional brokerage and securities services and had total assets of $49 million at December 31, 2022. M&T Bank, with total assets of $200.3 billion at December 31, 2022, is a New York-chartered commercial bank with 1,010 domestic banking offices in New York State, Maryland, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Maine, Vermont, New Hampshire, Virginia, West Virginia, and the District of Columbia, and a full-service commercial banking office in Ontario, Canada. M&T Bank and its subsidiaries offer a broad range of financial services to a diverse base of consumers, businesses, professional clients, governmental entities and financial institutions located in their markets. M&T Bank lends to consumers residing in the states noted above and to small and medium-size businesses based in those areas, although loans are also originated through offices in other states and in Ontario, Canada. Certain lending activities are also conducted in other states through various subsidiaries. Trust and other fiduciary services are offered by M&T Bank and through its wholly owned subsidiary, Wilmington Trust Company. Other subsidiaries of M&T Bank include M&T Realty Capital Corporation, a multifamily commercial mortgage lender; Wilmington Trust Investment 53 Advisors, Inc., which serves as an investment advisor to the Wilmington Funds, a family of proprietary mutual funds, and other funds and institutional clients; and entities obtained in the People's United acquisition including LEAF Commercial Capital, Inc., M&T Capital and Leasing Corp. (formerly known as People's Capital and Leasing Corp.) and M&T Equipment Finance Corp. (formerly known as People's United Equipment Finance Corp.) that provide equipment leasing and financing services. Wilmington Trust, N.A. is a national bank with total assets of $692 million at December 31, 2022. Wilmington Trust, N.A. and its subsidiaries offer various trust and wealth management services. On April 1, 2022, M&T completed the acquisition of People’s United Financial, Inc. (“People’s United”). Through subsidiaries, People's United provided commercial banking, retail banking and wealth management services to individual, corporate and municipal customers through a network of branches located in Connecticut, southeastern New York, Massachusetts, Vermont, New Hampshire and Maine. Following the merger, People's United Bank, National Association, a national banking association and a wholly owned subsidiary of People's United, merged with and into M&T Bank with M&T Bank as the surviving entity. The results of operations acquired from People's United have been included in the Company's financial results since April 1, 2022. In connection with the acquisition of People's United, M&T issued 50,325,004 common shares on April 1, 2022. Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement, People’s United shareholders received consideration valued at .118 of an M&T common share in exchange for each common share of People’s United. The purchase price totaled approximately $8.4 billion (with the price based on M&T’s closing price of $164.66 per share as of April 1, 2022). Additionally, People’s United outstanding preferred stock was converted into new shares of Series H preferred stock of M&T. The People's United transaction has been accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting and, accordingly, assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and consideration exchanged were recorded at estimated fair value on the acquisition date. M&T preliminarily recorded assets acquired of $64.2 billion, including $35.8 billion of loans and leases and $11.6 billion of investment securities, and liabilities assumed totaling $55.5 billion, including $53.0 billion of deposits. The transaction added $8.4 billion to M&T's common shareholders' equity and $261 million to preferred equity. In connection with the acquisition the Company recorded $3.9 billion of goodwill and $261 million of core deposit and other intangible assets. The acquisition of People's United formed a banking franchise with approximately $200 billion in assets serving communities in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic from Maine to Virginia, including Washington D.C. Net acquisition and integration-related expenses (included herein as merger-related expenses) associated with the People's United acquisition totaled $432 million after tax-effect, or $2.63 of diluted earnings per common share in 2022, and $34 million after tax-effect, or $0.25 of diluted earnings per common share in 2021. M&T completed the transfer of most financial records of People’s United to M&T’s core operating systems in the third quarter of 2022. The Company does not expect any People's United merger-related expenses to be material during 2023. On September 29, 2022 M&T Bank announced it had entered into a definitive agreement to sell M&T Insurance Agency, Inc. ("MTIA"), a wholly owned insurance agency subsidiary of M&T Bank to Arthur J. Gallagher & Co. The transaction was completed on October 31, 2022 and resulted in a pre-tax gain of $136 million. On December 19, 2022 Wilmington Trust, N.A. announced it had entered into an agreement to sell its Collective Investment Trust ("CIT") business to a private equity firm. That sale is expected to close in the first half of 2023 and result in recognition of a gain at that time. Critical Accounting Estimates The Company’s significant accounting policies conform with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and are described in note 1 of Notes to Financial Statements. In applying those accounting policies, management of the Company is required to exercise judgment in determining many of the methodologies, assumptions and estimates to be utilized. Certain of the critical accounting estimates 54 are more dependent on such judgment and in some cases may contribute to volatility in the Company’s reported financial performance should the assumptions and estimates used change over time due to changes in circumstances. The more significant areas in which management of the Company applies critical assumptions and estimates include the following: • Accounting for credit losses — Effective January 1, 2020 the Company adopted amended accounting guidance that impacts how the allowance for credit losses is determined. Under that accounting guidance, the allowance for credit losses represents a valuation account that is deducted from the amortized cost basis of certain financial assets, including loans and leases, to present the net amount expected to be collected at the balance sheet date. A provision for credit losses is recorded to adjust the level of the allowance as deemed necessary by management. In estimating expected losses in the loan and lease portfolio, borrower-specific financial data and macro-economic assumptions are utilized to project losses over a reasonable and supportable forecast period. For certain loan pools that share similar risk characteristics, the Company utilizes statistically developed models to estimate amounts and timing of expected future cash flows, collateral values and other factors used to determine the borrowers’ abilities to repay obligations. Such models consider historical correlations of credit losses with various macroeconomic assumptions including unemployment, gross domestic product and real estate prices. These forecasts may be adjusted for inherent limitations or biases of the models. Subsequent to the forecast period, the Company utilizes longer-term historical loss experience to estimate losses over the remaining contractual life of the loans. Changes in the circumstances considered when determining management’s estimates and assumptions could result in changes in those estimates and assumptions, which could result in adjustment of the allowance for credit losses in future periods. A discussion of facts and circumstances considered by management in determining the allowance for credit losses is included herein under the heading “Provision for Credit Losses” and in note 5 of Notes to Financial Statements. Prior to 2020, the allowance for credit losses represented the amount that in management’s judgment reflected incurred credit losses inherent in the loan and lease portfolio as of the balance sheet date. The estimation of the allowance for credit losses prior to 2020 did not consider reasonable and supportable forecasts that could have affected the collectability of the reported amounts. • Valuation methodologies — Management of the Company applies various valuation methodologies to assets and liabilities which often involve a significant degree of judgment, particularly when liquid markets do not exist for the particular items being valued. Quoted market prices are referred to when estimating fair values for certain assets, such as investment securities and residential real estate loans held for sale and related commitments. However, for those items for which an observable liquid market does not exist, management utilizes significant estimates and assumptions to value such items. Examples of these items include loans, deposits, borrowings, goodwill, core deposit and other intangible assets, other assets and liabilities obtained or assumed in business combinations, capitalized servicing assets, pension and other postretirement benefit obligations, estimated residual values of property associated with leases, and certain derivative and other financial instruments. These valuations require the use of various assumptions, including, among others, discount rates, rates of return on assets, repayment rates, cash flows, default rates, costs of servicing and liquidation values. The use of different assumptions could produce significantly different results, which could have material positive or negative effects on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition or disclosures of fair value information. In addition to valuation, the Company must assess whether there are any declines in value below the carrying value of assets that require recognition of a loss in the consolidated statement of income. Examples include certain investments, capitalized servicing assets, goodwill and core deposit and other intangible assets, among others. Specific assumptions and estimates 55 utilized by management are discussed in detail herein in management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in notes 1, 3, 4, 7, 8, 13, 19, 20 and 21 of Notes to Financial Statements. • Commitments, contingencies and off-balance sheet arrangements — Information regarding the Company’s commitments and contingencies, including guarantees and contingent liabilities arising from litigation, and their potential effects on the Company’s results of operations is included in note 22 of Notes to Financial Statements. In addition, the Company is routinely subject to examinations from various governmental taxing authorities. Such examinations may result in challenges to the tax return treatment applied by the Company to specific transactions. Management believes that the assumptions and judgment used to record tax-related assets or liabilities have been appropriate. Should tax laws change or the tax authorities determine that management’s assumptions were inappropriate, the result and adjustments required could have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations. Information regarding the Company’s income taxes is presented in note 14 of Notes to Financial Statements. The recognition or de-recognition in the Company’s consolidated financial statements of assets and liabilities held by so-called variable interest entities is subject to the interpretation and application of complex accounting pronouncements or interpretations that require management to estimate and assess the relative significance of the Company’s financial interests in those entities and the degree to which the Company can influence the most important activities of the entities. Information relating to the Company’s involvement in such entities and the accounting treatment afforded each such involvement is included in note 20 of Notes to Financial Statements. Overview During 2022 the Federal Reserve took steps to address rising inflation, including several increases in the target Federal funds rate totaling 4.25%. Those actions have led to an expansion of the Company's net interest margin, or taxable-equivalent net interest income expressed as a percentage of average earning assets. A higher level of earning assets associated with the People's United acquisition and the expanded net interest margin have increased taxable-equivalent net interest income in 2022 as compared with 2021 and 2020. The Company's estimates of expected credit losses at December 31, 2022 reflected risks including inflation, a projected rise in unemployment, reduction of economic growth projections, decreasing residential real estate values as compared with December 31, 2021 and continued concerns about commercial real estate values in the hospitality and office building sectors. The Company recognized a $136 million gain on the sale of MTIA in the fourth quarter of 2022. Also during the fourth quarter of 2022, the Company made a $135 million tax-deductible contribution to The M&T Charitable Foundation. Net income recorded by the Company in 2022 was $1.99 billion or $11.53 of diluted earnings per common share, compared with $1.86 billion or $13.80 of diluted earnings per common share in 2021. Basic earnings per common share were $11.59 in 2022 and $13.81 in 2021. In connection with M&T’s acquisition of People’s United, the after-tax impact of merger-related expenses was $432 million ($580 million pre-tax), or $2.63 of diluted earnings per common share in 2022, compared with $34 million ($44 million pre-tax), or $0.25 of diluted earnings per common share in 2021. Merger-related expenses largely consisted of professional services, temporary help fees and other costs associated with actual or planned conversions of systems and/or integration of operations and the introduction of the Company to its new customers, costs related to terminations of existing contractual arrangements to purchase various services, severance, travel costs, and, in the second quarter of 2022, an initial provision for credit losses on loans not deemed to be purchased credit deteriorated ("PCD") on the April 1, 2022 acquisition date of People's United. GAAP requires that acquired loans be recorded at estimated fair value, which includes the use of interest rate and expected credit loss assumptions to forecast estimated cash flows. GAAP also provides that an allowance for credit losses on loans 56 acquired, but not classified as PCD also be recognized. Given the requirement to recognize such losses above and beyond the impact of forecasted losses used in determining the fair value of acquired loans, M&T considers that initial provision to be a merger-related expense. There were no merger-related expenses during 2020. Net income in 2020 totaled $1.35 billion, while diluted and basic earnings per common share were each $9.94. Expressed as a rate of return on average assets, net income in 2022 was 1.05%, compared with 1.22% in 2021 and 1.00% in 2020. The return on average common shareholders’ equity was 8.67% in 2022, 11.54% in 2021 and 8.72% in 2020. Table 1 EARNINGS SUMMARY Dollars in millions (a) Changes were calculated from unrounded amounts. (b) Interest income data are on a taxable-equivalent basis. The taxable-equivalent adjustment represents additional income taxes that would be due if all interest income were subject to income taxes. This adjustment, which is related to interest received on qualified municipal securities, industrial revenue financings and preferred equity securities, is based on a composite income tax rate of approximately 26%. The financial results associated with the acquired operations of People's United have been included in the Company's consolidated statement of income since April 1, 2022. Reflecting earning assets obtained in the acquisition of People's United and an expanded net interest margin the Company's taxable-equivalent net interest income increased by 53% to $5.86 billion in 2022 from $3.84 billion in 2021. That increase includes the impact of a 63 basis point (hundredths of one percent) widening of the net interest margin to 3.39% in 2022 from 2.76% in 2021 and a growth in average earning assets to $172.8 billion in 2022 from $139.1 billion in 2021. That growth includes increases in average loans and investment securities of $22.7 billion and $13.5 billion, respectively. Earning assets of  People's United totaled $56.6 billion on April 1, 2022 and included loans and investment securities of $35.8 billion and $11.6 billion, respectively. Taxable-equivalent net interest income was $3.88 billion in 2020. The decrease in 2021 as compared with 2020 resulted from a 40 basis point narrowing of the net interest margin from 3.16% in 2020, partially offset by the impact of an increase in average earning assets from $122.9 billion in 2020 that reflected higher balances of amounts held at the Federal Reserve Bank ("FRB") of New York. The provision for credit losses was $517 million in 2022 reflecting the $242 million People's United-related provision for non-PCD loans acquired in the acquisition and a forecasted weakening of macroeconomic conditions as of December 31, 2022, as compared with forecasts in 2021 during which a recapture of previously recorded provisions of $75 million was recorded. The provision in 2020 was $800 million. Net charge-offs in 2022, 2021 and 2020 were $160 million, $192 million and $247 million, respectively. Other income totaled $2.36 billion in 2022, $2.17 billion in 2021 and $2.09 billion in 2020. Comparing the recent year with 2021, acquired operations associated with the People's United 57 acquisition (predominantly reflected in trust income, service charges on deposit accounts and other revenues from operations, including credit-related fees), higher trust income from legacy operations and the $136 million gain on sale of MTIA were most impactful to the higher levels of noninterest income in 2022. Those increases were partially offset by lower mortgage banking revenues reflecting the Company's decision late in the third quarter of 2021 to retain the substantial majority of recently originated mortgage loans in portfolio rather than sell such loans, and a planned reduction of insufficient funds fees reflected in service charges on deposit accounts. As compared with 2020, higher amounts of trust income, service charges on deposit accounts, and brokerage services income in 2021 were partially offset by lower trading account and non-hedging derivative gains, a higher loss on bank investment securities and less in distributions from Bayview Lending Group LLC ("BLG"). Other expense totaled $5.05 billion in 2022, compared with $3.61 billion in 2021 and $3.39 billion in 2020. Included in those amounts are expenses considered by M&T to be “nonoperating” in nature, consisting of amortization of core deposit and other intangible assets of $56 million, $10 million and $15 million in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, and merger-related expenses of $338 million and $44 million in 2022 and 2021, respectively. No merger-related expenses were recorded in 2020. Exclusive of those nonoperating expenses, noninterest operating expenses totaled $4.66 billion in 2022, compared with $3.56 billion in 2021 and $3.37 billion in 2020. Acquired operations from People's United were the predominant factor for increased noninterest operating expenses in 2022. In addition to the People's United acquisition, factors contributing to the higher level of expenses included higher costs for salaries and employee benefits, outside data processing and software, equipment and net occupancy and professional services expenses, and (in the fourth quarter of 2022) a contribution to The M&T Charitable Foundation. Those higher expenses were partially offset by lower defined benefit pension-related expenses included in other costs of operations. The higher level of such expenses in 2021 as compared with 2020 was due to increased costs for salaries and employee benefits, outside data processing and software, FDIC assessments, and professional services. The efficiency ratio measures the relationship of noninterest operating expenses to revenues. The Company’s efficiency ratio, or noninterest operating expenses (as previously defined) divided by the sum of taxable-equivalent net interest income and noninterest income (exclusive of gains and losses from bank investment securities), was 56.6% in 2022, compared with 59.0% and 56.3% in 2021 and 2020, respectively. The calculations of the efficiency ratio are presented in table 2. The Company’s effective tax rate was 23.7% in 2022, compared with 24.3% and 23.5% in 2021 and 2020, respectively. Under approved capital plans and programs authorized by M&T's Board of Directors, M&T repurchased a total of 10,453,282 shares of M&T's common stock in 2022 at an average cost per share of $172.19 resulting in a total cost of $1.8 billion. M&T repurchased 2,577,000 common shares for $374 million in 2020. No common shares were repurchased in 2021. Supplemental Reporting of Non-GAAP Results of Operations As a result of business combinations and other acquisitions, the Company had intangible assets consisting of goodwill and core deposit and other intangible assets totaling $8.7 billion at December 31, 2022 and $4.6 billion at each of December 31, 2021 and 2020, consisting predominantly of goodwill. Amortization of core deposit and other intangible assets, after-tax effect, totaled $43 million, $8 million and $11 million during 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. M&T consistently provides supplemental reporting of its results on a “net operating” or “tangible” basis, from which M&T excludes the after-tax effect of amortization of core deposit and other intangible assets (and the related goodwill, core deposit intangible and other intangible asset balances, net of applicable deferred tax amounts) and expenses (when incurred) associated with merging acquired or to be acquired operations with and into the Company, since such items are considered by management to be “nonoperating” in nature. In 2022 and 2021, those merger-related 58 expenses generally consisted of professional services, temporary help fees and other costs associated with actual or planned conversions of systems and/or integration of operations and the introduction of M&T to its new customers; costs related to terminations of existing contractual arrangements to purchase various services; severance; travel costs; legal expenses; printing costs associated with  communications with shareholders and customers; and in the second quarter of 2022, an initial provision for credit losses on loans not deemed to be PCD on April 1, 2022. Such expenses totaled $580 million ($432 million after-tax) in 2022 and $44 million ($34 million after-tax) in 2021. There were no merger-related expenses in 2020. Although “net operating income” as defined by M&T is not a GAAP measure, M&T’s management believes that this information helps investors understand the effect of acquisition activity in reported results. Net operating income was $2.47 billion in 2022, $1.90 billion in 2021, and $1.36 billion in 2020. Diluted net operating earnings per common share were $14.42 in 2022, $14.11 in 2021 and $10.02 in 2020. Net operating income expressed as a rate of return on average tangible assets was 1.35% in 2022, compared with 1.28% in 2021 and 1.04% in 2020. Net operating income represented a return on average tangible common equity of 16.70% in 2022, compared with 16.80% in 2021 and 12.79% in 2020. Reconciliations of GAAP amounts with corresponding non-GAAP amounts are presented in table 2. 59 Table 2 RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP MEASURES (a) After any related tax effect. 60 Net Interest Income/Lending and Funding Activities Taxable-equivalent net interest income was $5.86 billion in 2022, a 53% increase from $3.84 billion in 2021. That increase reflects the impact of $33.7 billion in additional average earning assets, predominantly resulting from the People's United transaction, and a 63 basis point widening of the net interest margin to 3.39% in 2022 from 2.76% in 2021. The higher net interest margin in 2022 is generally reflective of a rising interest rate environment resulting from actions taken by the Federal Reserve to temper inflationary pressures on the U.S. economy. The Federal Reserve raised its target Federal funds rate through multiple hikes that totaled 4.25% during 2022. Average earnings assets were $172.8 billion in 2022 and $139.1 billion in 2021. Average loans and leases were $119.3 billion in 2022, up from $96.6 billion in 2021. Included in average loans and leases in the recent year were loans obtained in the People's United acquisition. Loans acquired from People's United totaled $35.8 billion on the April 1, 2022 acquisition date and consisted of approximately $13.6 billion of commercial loans and leases, $13.5 billion of commercial real estate loans, $7.1 billion of residential real estate loans and $1.6 billion of consumer loans. Including the three quarter impact of the acquired loan balances, average balances of commercial loans and leases increased $9.7 billion or 39% to $34.9 billion in 2022 from $25.2 billion in 2021. Partially offsetting the increase from acquired loans was a reduction in average balances of Paycheck Protection Program (“PPP”) loans, reflecting loan repayments by the Small Business Administration. PPP loans averaged $446 million in 2022 compared with $4.1 billion in 2021. Average commercial real estate loan balances were up $6.3 billion or 17% to $43.6 billion in 2022 from $37.3 billion in 2021. That increase was predominantly due to the impact of loans obtained in the acquisition of People's United partially offset by a reduction in average balances of legacy construction and permanent mortgage loans, reflecting repayments by customers. Consumer loans averaged $19.5 billion in 2022, an increase of $2.2 billion or 13% from $17.3 billion in 2021, reflecting the impact of loans obtained in the acquisition of People's United (that consisted predominantly of outstanding balances of home equity lines of credit) and growth in average recreational finance loans (consisting predominantly of loans secured by recreational vehicles and boats). Average residential real estate loans were $21.3 billion and $16.8 billion in 2022 and 2021, respectively. The growth in residential real estate loans was largely attributable to the acquisition of loans from People's United and the Company's decision in the third quarter of 2021 to retain rather than sell most originated residential mortgage loans. Partially offsetting those increases was the impact of ongoing repayments of loans by customers. Net interest income expressed on a taxable-equivalent basis aggregated $3.84 billion in 2021, compared with $3.88 billion in 2020. The decrease in 2021 was primarily attributable to a 40 basis point narrowing of the net interest margin to 2.76% in 2021 from 3.16% in 2020 reflecting lower yields on loans offset, in part, by lower rates paid on deposits, and reduced balances of investment securities. Those net impacts were partially offset by increased deposits held at the FRB of New York that served to increase net interest income, but, due to their low yield, reduced the reported net interest margin. Average earnings assets were $139.1 billion and $122.9 billion in 2021 and 2020, respectively. Average loans and leases were $96.6 billion in each of 2021 and 2020. Average balances of commercial loans and leases decreased $2.3 billion or 8% to $25.2 billion in 2021 from $27.5 billion in 2020. That decrease was largely the result of a decline in average balances of PPP loans due to loan forgiveness by the SBA, lower dealer floor plan balances reflecting automobile production and inventory issues experienced by the industry and subdued loan demand by commercial customers, in general. PPP loans averaged $4.1 billion in 2021 compared with $4.4 billion in 2020. Average commercial real estate loan balances were up $336 million or 1% to $37.3 billion in 2021 from $37.0 billion in 2020. Consumer loans averaged $17.3 billion in 2021, an increase of $1.4 billion or 9% from $15.9 billion in 2020, due to growth in recreational finance loans and, to a lesser extent, automobile loans that was partially offset by declines in average outstanding balances of home equity loans and lines of credit. Average residential real estate loans were $16.8 billion and $16.2 billion in 2021 and 2020, respectively, 61 reflecting repurchases of government-guaranteed loans from Ginnie Mae pools that are serviced by the Company. The Company repurchased government-guaranteed loans to reduce associated servicing costs, namely a requirement to advance principal and interest payments that had not been received from individual mortgagors. The loans repurchased from Ginnie Mae pools averaged $3.3 billion in 2021 and $2.6 billion in 2020. Additionally, late in the third quarter of 2021, the Company began to retain recently originated residential mortgage loans in portfolio rather than sell such loans. Those increases were offset by the ongoing repayments of loans by customers. 62 Table 3 AVERAGE BALANCE SHEETS AND TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT RATES (a) Includes nonaccrual loans. (b) Includes available-for-sale investment securities at amortized cost. 63 Table 4 summarizes average loans and leases outstanding in 2022 and percentage changes in the major components of the portfolio over the past two years. Table 4 AVERAGE LOANS AND LEASES (Net of unearned discount) Commercial loans and leases, excluding loans secured by real estate, totaled $41.9 billion at December 31, 2022, representing 32% of total loans and leases. Table 5 presents information on commercial loans and leases as of December 31, 2022 relating to geographic area, size, borrower industry and whether the loans are secured by collateral or unsecured. Of the $41.9 billion of commercial loans and leases outstanding at the end of 2022, approximately $37.8 billion, or 90%, were secured, while 25%, 33% and 13% were granted to businesses in New York State, the Mid-Atlantic area (which includes Delaware, Maryland, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Virginia, West Virginia and the District of Columbia) and the New England area (which includes Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island and Vermont), respectively. The Company provides financing for leases to commercial customers, primarily for equipment. Commercial leases included in total commercial loans and leases at December 31, 2022 aggregated $2.4 billion, of which 23% were secured by collateral located in New York State, 24% were secured by collateral in the Mid-Atlantic area and 5% were secured by collateral in New England. The Company acquired $1.3 billion of commercial leases on April 1, 2022 as a result of the People's United transaction. International loans included in commercial loans and leases totaled $241 million and $116 million at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Included in such amounts were $227 million and $94 million of loans, respectively, at M&T Bank’s commercial banking office in Ontario, Canada. The remaining international loans were predominantly to domestic companies with foreign operations. 64 Table 5 COMMERCIAL LOANS AND LEASES, NET OF UNEARNED DISCOUNT (Excludes Loans Secured by Real Estate) December 31, 2022 (a) Includes Delaware, Maryland, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Virginia, West Virginia and the District of Columbia. (b) Includes Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island and Vermont. Loans secured by real estate, including outstanding balances of home equity loans and lines of credit which the Company classifies as consumer loans, represented approximately 58% of the loan and lease portfolio during 2022, compared with 59% in each of 2021 and 2020. At December 31, 2022, the Company held approximately $45.4 billion of commercial real estate loans (including $131 million held for sale), $23.8 billion of consumer real estate loans secured by one-to-four family residential properties (including $32 million of loans held for sale) and $5.0 billion of outstanding balances of home equity loans and lines of credit, compared with $35.4 billion, $16.1 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2021. Included in commercial real estate loans at December 31, 2022 and 2021 were construction loans of $8.6 billion and $9.3 billion, respectively, including amounts due from builders and developers of residential real estate aggregating $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Commercial real estate loans included loans held for sale totaling $131 million and $425 million at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. International loans included in commercial real estate loans totaled $69 million at December 31, 2022 and $74 million at December 31, 2021. 65 Commercial real estate loans originated by the Company include both fixed and variable rate instruments with monthly payments and a balloon payment of the remaining unpaid principal at maturity. Maturity dates generally range from five to ten years and, for borrowers in good standing, the terms of such loans may be extended by the customer following maturity at the then-current market rate of interest. Adjustable-rate commercial real estate loans represented approximately 77% of the commercial real estate loan portfolio at the 2022 year-end. Table 6 presents commercial real estate loans by geographic area, type of collateral and size of the loans outstanding at December 31, 2022. New York City commercial real estate loans totaled $5.8 billion at December 31, 2022. The $5.3 billion of investor-owned commercial real estate loans in New York City were largely secured by multifamily residential properties, retail space and office space. The Company’s experience has been that office, retail and service-related properties tend to demonstrate more volatile fluctuations in value through economic cycles and changing economic conditions than do multifamily residential properties. Approximately 64% of the aggregate dollar amount of New York City loans were for loans with outstanding balances of $30 million or less, while loans of more than $50 million made up approximately 25% of the total. Commercial real estate loans secured by properties located in other parts of New York State, the New England area and the Mid-Atlantic area tend to have a greater diversity of collateral types and include a significant amount of lending to customers who use the mortgaged property in their trade or business (owner-occupied). Approximately 90% of the aggregate dollar amount of commercial real estate loans in New York State secured by properties located outside of New York City were for loans with outstanding balances of $30 million or less. Of the outstanding balances of commercial real estate loans in the New England and Mid-Atlantic areas, approximately 86% and 78%, respectively, were for loans with outstanding balances of $30 million or less. Commercial real estate loans secured by properties located outside of the New England area, the Mid-Atlantic area and New York State comprised 16% of total commercial real estate loans as of December 31, 2022. Commercial real estate construction and development loans made to investors presented in table 6 totaled $8.3 billion at December 31, 2022, or 6% of total loans and leases. Approximately 98% of those construction loans had adjustable interest rates. Included in such loans at the 2022 year-end were $1.3 billion of loans to builders and developers of residential real estate properties. The remainder of the commercial real estate construction loan portfolio was comprised of loans made for various purposes, including the construction of office buildings, multifamily residential housing, retail space and other commercial development. M&T Realty Capital Corporation, a commercial real estate lending subsidiary of M&T Bank, participates in the Delegated Underwriting and Servicing (“DUS”) program of Fannie Mae, pursuant to which commercial real estate loans are originated in accordance with terms and conditions specified by Fannie Mae and sold. Under this program, loans are sold with partial credit recourse to M&T Realty Capital Corporation. The amount of recourse is generally limited to one-third of any credit loss incurred by the purchaser on an individual loan, although in some cases the recourse amount is less than one-third of the outstanding principal balance. The Company’s maximum credit risk for recourse associated with sold commercial real estate loans was approximately $3.9 billion at December 31, 2022 and $4.0 billion at December 31, 2021. There have been no material losses incurred as a result of those recourse arrangements. At December 31, 2022 and 2021, commercial real estate loans serviced by the Company for other investors were $26.0 billion and $23.7 billion, respectively. Reflected in commercial real estate loans serviced for others were loans sub-serviced for others that had outstanding balances of $3.8 billion and $3.5 billion at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. 66 Table 6 COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE LOANS, NET OF UNEARNED DISCOUNT December 31, 2022 (a) Includes Delaware, Maryland, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Virginia, West Virginia and the District of Columbia. (b) Includes Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island and Vermont. (c) Includes $359 million of construction loans. Real estate loans secured by one-to-four family residential properties were $23.8 billion at December 31, 2022, including approximately 31% secured by properties located in New York State, 30% secured by properties located in the Mid-Atlantic area and 27% secured by properties located in New England. The Company’s portfolio of limited documentation residential real estate loans held for investment totaled $1.1 billion at December 31, 2022, compared with $1.3 billion at December 31, 2021. That portfolio consisted predominantly of limited documentation loans acquired in a prior business combination. Such loans represent loans that at origination typically included some form of 67 limited borrower documentation requirements as compared with more traditional residential real estate loans. The acquired loans that were eligible for limited documentation processing were available in amounts up to 65% of the lower of the appraised value or purchase price of the property. Loans to individuals to finance the construction of one-to-four family residential properties totaled $55 million at December 31, 2022 and $57 million at December 31, 2021, or less than .1% of total loans and leases at each of those dates. Information about the credit performance of the Company’s residential real estate loans is included herein under the heading “Provision For Credit Losses.” Consumer loans comprised approximately 16% of total loans and leases at December 31, 2022 and 19% at December 31, 2021. Outstanding balances of recreational finance loans represented the largest component of the consumer loan portfolio at December 31, 2022 and totaled $9.1 billion or approximately 7% of total loans, compared with $8.1 billion or 9% at December 31, 2021. Outstanding automobile loan balances were $4.5 billion at December 31, 2022, compared with $4.7 billion at December 31, 2021. Home equity loans and lines of credit outstanding at December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021 were $5.0 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively. Consumer loans obtained in the acquisition of People's United were predominantly home equity lines of credit. Table 7 presents the composition of the Company’s loan and lease portfolio at the end of 2022, including outstanding balances to businesses and consumers in New York State, the Mid-Atlantic area, the New England region and other states. Table 7 LOANS AND LEASES, NET OF UNEARNED DISCOUNT December 31, 2022 (a) Includes Delaware, Maryland, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Virginia, West Virginia and the District of Columbia. (b) Includes Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island and Vermont . The investment securities portfolio averaged $19.9 billion in 2022, up from $6.4 billion and $8.2 billion in 2021 and 2020, respectively. The higher average balance in 2022 reflects the acquisition of People's United, which added approximately $11.6 billion to the investment securities portfolio on April 1, 2022, and purchases of approximately $9.1 billion of investment securities in 2022 consisting predominantly of U.S. Treasury notes and fixed rate residential mortgage-backed securities. The decline in average balances of investment securities in 2021 as compared with 2020 was predominantly due to maturities and pay downs of mortgage-backed securities and maturities of U.S. Treasury notes. During 2022 and 2021 the Company purchased approximately $1.9 billion and $1.6 billion of fixed rate residential mortgage-backed securities, respectively, and approximately $7.3 billion and $680 68 million of U.S. Treasury notes, respectively. There were no significant sales of investment securities in either year. The Company routinely has increases and decreases in its holdings of capital stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of New York and the FRB of New York. Those holdings are accounted for at cost and are adjusted based on the amounts of outstanding borrowings and available lines of credit with those entities. The investment securities portfolio is largely comprised of residential mortgage-backed securities and shorter-term U.S. Treasury and federal agency notes and, following the acquisition of People's United, municipal securities. When purchasing investment securities, the Company considers its liquidity position and its overall interest-rate risk profile as well as the adequacy of expected returns relative to risks assumed, including prepayments. The Company may occasionally sell investment securities as a result of changes in interest rates and spreads, actual or anticipated prepayments, credit risk associated with a particular security, or as a result of restructuring its investment securities portfolio in connection with a business combination. The amounts of investment securities held by the Company are influenced by such factors as available yield in comparison with alternative investments, demand for loans, which generally yield more than investment securities, ongoing repayments, the levels of deposits, and management of liquidity and balance sheet size and resulting capital ratios. Fair value changes in equity securities with readily determinable fair values are recognized in the consolidated statement of income. Net unrealized losses on such equity securities were $6 million in 2022, $21 million in 2021 and $9 million in 2020. Those losses include changes in value of the Company’s holdings of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac preferred stock. The Company regularly reviews its debt investment securities for declines in value below amortized cost that might be indicative of credit-related losses. In light of such reviews, there were no credit-related losses on debt investment securities recognized in 2022, 2021 or 2020. A further discussion of fair values of investment securities is included herein under the heading “Capital.” Additional information about the investment securities portfolio is included in notes 3 and 21 of Notes to Financial Statements. Other earning assets include interest-bearing balances at the FRB of New York and other banks, trading account assets, federal funds sold and agreements to resell securities. Those other earning assets in the aggregate averaged $33.6 billion in 2022, $36.0 billion in 2021 and $18.1 billion in 2020. Interest-bearing deposits at banks averaged $33.4 billion in 2022, compared with $35.8 billion in 2021 and $15.3 billion in 2020. The amounts of interest-bearing deposits at banks at the respective dates were predominantly comprised of deposits held at the FRB of New York. In general, the levels of those deposits often fluctuate due to changes in deposits of retail and commercial customers, trust-related deposits and additions to or maturities of investment securities or borrowings. Agreements to resell securities averaged $69 million, $167 million and $2.7 billion in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The higher average balance in 2020 reflects the temporary investment by the Company of increased customer deposit levels. Table 8 AVERAGE CORE DEPOSITS 69 The most significant source of funding for the Company is core deposits. The Company considers noninterest-bearing deposits, interest-bearing transaction accounts, savings deposits and time deposits of $250,000 or less as core deposits. The Company’s branch network is its principal source of core deposits, which generally carry lower interest rates than wholesale funds of comparable maturities. Average core deposits were $153.8 billion in 2022, up from $125.6 billion in 2021 and $105.7 billion in 2020. Average balances of savings and interest-checking core deposits rose $14.1 billion or 21% in 2022 to $81.1 billion from $67.0 billion in 2021. Average noninterest-bearing deposits increased $13.2 billion or 24% to $68.9 billion in 2022 from $55.7 billion in 2021. The People's United acquisition added approximately $50.8 billion of core deposits on April 1, 2022, including $30.8 billion of savings and interest-checking deposits, $2.6 billion of time deposits and $17.4 billion of noninterest-bearing deposits. The increase in core deposits resulting from the acquisition of People's United in 2022 was partially offset by the Company's initiative to reduce certain historically higher-cost deposits as well as customer reactions to the generally rising interest rate environment. Average balances of savings and interest-checking core deposits rose $7.3 billion or 12% in 2021 to $67.0 billion from $59.8 billion in 2020. Average noninterest-bearing deposits increased $14.0 billion or 34% to $55.7 billion in 2021 from $41.7 billion in 2020. A continuance of the trend observed in 2020, the increase in average core deposits in 2021 as compared with 2020 was largely due to higher average deposits of commercial and consumer customers. Funding provided by core deposits represented 89% of average earning assets in 2022, compared with 90% in 2021 and 86% in 2020. Table 8 summarizes average core deposits in 2022 and percentage changes in the components of such deposits over the past two years. Core deposits totaled $154.6 billion and $128.0 billion at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Table 9 AVERAGE DEPOSITS 70 The Company also receives funding from other deposit sources, including branch-related time deposits over $250,000, brokered deposits and, prior to June 30, 2021, deposits associated with the Company’s Cayman Islands office. Time deposits over $250,000 averaged $762 million in 2022, $402 million in 2021 and $683 million in 2020. The increase in such deposits in 2022 as compared with 2021 resulted from the acquisition of People's United and higher demand for time deposit products as interest rates rose during the course of 2022. Contrasting that increase, the decline in such deposits in 2021 from 2020 was predominantly the result of maturities of time deposits and, due to the low interest rate environment in that period, a reduced demand from customers for time deposit products. Cayman Islands office deposits averaged $181 million in 2021 and $1.1 billion in 2020. Those deposits consisted predominantly of balances swept from lower-yielding commercial customer accounts. During the second quarter of 2021, the Company introduced a new interest-bearing sweep product (included in savings and interest-checking deposits) that replaced the Eurodollar sweep product previously recorded as Cayman Islands office deposits. As a result, there were no outstanding Cayman Islands deposits at each of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the office was closed. The Company had brokered savings and interest-bearing transaction accounts that averaged $3.6 billion in 2022, compared with $3.8 billion in each of 2021 and 2020. Brokered time deposits averaged $250 million in 2022 and were not a significant source of funding in 2021 and 2020. Additional brokered deposits may be added in the future depending on market conditions, including demand by customers and other investors for those deposits, and the cost of funds available from alternative sources at the time. Time deposits over $250,000 were $1.0 billion and $345 million at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Total uninsured deposits, were estimated to be $74.2 billion at December 31, 2022, compared with $69.1 billion at December 31, 2021. The Company also uses borrowings from banks, the FHLB of New York, the FRB of New York and others as sources of funding. Short-term borrowings represent arrangements that at the time they were entered into had a contractual maturity of one year or less. Average short-term borrowings were $936 million in 2022, compared with $68 million in 2021 and $62 million in 2020. Short-term borrowings assumed in connection with the People's United acquisition totaled $895 million on April 1, 2022. In October 2022 M&T redeemed $500 million of unsecured senior notes due to mature in December 2022 that had been assumed in the acquisition of People's United and included in short-term borrowings. Short-term borrowings were $3.6 billion at December 31, 2022, compared with $47 million at December 31, 2021. The comparative increase in short-term borrowings reflects the Company's liquidity ratio management. Long-term borrowings averaged $3.4 billion in 2022, $3.5 billion in 2021 and $5.8 billion in 2020. As of April 1, 2022, long-term borrowings assumed in the People's United acquisition totaled $494 million and included $483 million of fixed-rate subordinated notes and $11 million of FHLB advances. Average balances of outstanding senior notes were $2.0 billion in 2022, compared with $2.4 billion and $3.8 billion in 2021 and 2020, respectively. Unsecured senior notes totaled $2.5 billion and $2.4 billion at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. In November 2022 M&T Bank issued $500 million of fixed rate senior notes that pay a rate of 5.4% semi-annually and mature in November 2025. In August 2022 M&T issued $500 million of senior notes that mature in August 2028 and pay a fixed rate of 4.553% semi-annually until August 2027 after which the Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR") plus 1.78% will be paid quarterly until maturity. In April 2022, M&T Bank redeemed $650 million of fixed rate senior notes that were due to mature on May 18, 2022. During May 2022, $250 million of variable rate senior notes of M&T Bank matured. In January 2021, $350 million of variable rate senior notes of M&T Bank matured. During 2020, M&T Bank redeemed $2.1 billion of fixed rate senior notes that were within thirty days of scheduled maturity and, thereby, eligible for redemption. Also included in average long-term borrowings were amounts borrowed from FHLBs of $6 million in 2022 compared with $2 million in 2021 and 2020 and subordinated capital notes of $863 million in 2022 compared with $581 million in 2021 and $1.4 billion in 2020. In March 2021, M&T Bank 71 redeemed $500 million of subordinated capital notes that were due to mature on December 1, 2021 and during December 2020, $409 million of subordinated capital notes of M&T Bank matured. Junior subordinated debentures associated with trust preferred securities that were included in average long-term borrowings were $534 million in 2022, $530 million in 2021 and $527 million in 2020. Additional information regarding long-term borrowings, including information regarding contractual maturities of such borrowings, is provided in note 9 of Notes to Financial Statements. The Company has utilized interest rate swap agreements to modify the repricing characteristics of certain components of its loans and long-term debt. As of December 31, 2022, interest rate swap agreements were used as fair value hedges of approximately $1.5 billion of outstanding fixed rate long-term borrowings. Additionally, interest rate swap agreements with a notional amount of $11.25 billion were used as cash flow hedges of interest payments associated with variable rate commercial real estate loans. Further information on interest rate swap agreements is provided herein and in note 19 of Notes to Financial Statements. Changes in the composition of the Company’s earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, as discussed herein, as well as changes in interest rates and spreads, can impact net interest income. Net interest spread, or the difference between the taxable-equivalent yield on earning assets and the rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities, was 3.19% in 2022, compared with 2.70% in 2021 and 3.00% in 2020. The yield on the Company’s earning assets increased 80 basis points to 3.64% in 2022 from 2.84% in 2021 and the rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities increased 31 basis points to .45% in 2022 from .14% in 2021. The increase in the net interest spread in 2022 as compared with 2021 reflects the impact of generally rising interest rates that resulted in higher yields on loans and leases, deposits at the FRB of New York and investment securities, partially offset by higher rates on interest-bearing liabilities. The Federal Reserve raised its target Federal funds rate 4.25% since December 31, 2021. During 2020, the yield on earning assets was 3.43% and the rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities was .43%. The lower net interest spread in 2021 as compared with 2020 reflects the effect of decreases in short-term interest rates initiated by the Federal Reserve and the impact of a higher proportion of low-yielding balances at the FRB of New York to total average earning assets. While those low-yielding balances added to net interest income, they had the effect of reducing the yield on total average earning assets and, as a result, the net interest spread. Net interest-free funds consist largely of noninterest-bearing demand deposits and shareholders’ equity, partially offset by bank owned life insurance and non-earning assets, including goodwill and core deposit and other intangible assets. Net interest-free funds averaged $78.8 billion in 2022, $61.1 billion in 2021 and $47.3 billion in 2020. The increase in net interest-free funds in 2022 as compared with 2021 reflects higher average balances of noninterest-bearing deposits and shareholders' equity that include the impact of the acquisition of People's United. In connection with the People's United acquisition, the Company added noninterest-bearing deposits of $17.4 million at the acquisition date. Noninterest-bearing deposits averaged $68.9 billion in 2022, $55.7 billion in 2021 and $41.7 billion in 2020. The growth from 2021 to 2022 reflects the impact of the People's United acquisition and from 2020 to 2021 reflects higher levels of deposits of commercial customers. Shareholders’ equity averaged $23.8 billion in 2022, compared with $16.9 billion and $16.0 billion in 2021 and 2020, respectively. The higher amounts of shareholders' equity in 2022 as compared with 2021 and 2020 reflect retained earnings and additional equity issued in connection with the People's United acquisition, partially offset by share repurchase activity. M&T issued $8.4 billion of common equity and $261 million of preferred equity in completing the acquisition of People's United on April 1, 2022. M&T also repurchased $1.8 billion of its common stock in 2022. Goodwill and core deposit and other intangible assets averaged $7.7 billion in 2022 and $4.6 billion in each of 2021 and 2020. The Company recorded $3.9 billion of goodwill on April 1, 2022 which represents excess consideration over the fair value of net assets acquired in the People's United transaction. As part of the transaction, intangible assets were identified, thereby increasing the balance of core deposit and other intangible assets on the Company's balance 72 sheet by $261 million on April 1, 2022. Reflecting the impact of the People's United acquisition, the cash surrender value of bank owned life insurance averaged $2.42 billion in 2022, compared with $1.86 billion in 2021 and $1.84 billion in 2020. Increases in the cash surrender value of bank owned life insurance are not included in interest income, but rather are recorded in “other revenues from operations.” The contribution of net interest-free funds to net interest margin was .20% in 2022, .06% in 2021 and .16% in 2020. The increased contribution of net-interest free funds in 2022 as compared with 2021 reflects the higher rates on interest-bearing liabilities used to value net interest-free funds. Conversely, the reduced contribution of net interest-free funds to net interest margin in 2021 as compared with 2020 reflects the lower rates on interest-bearing liabilities in that year. Reflecting the changes to the net interest spread and the contribution of net interest-free funds as described herein, the Company’s net interest margin was 3.39% in 2022, 2.76% in 2021 and 3.16% in 2020. Future changes in market interest rates or spreads, as well as changes in the composition of the Company’s portfolios of earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities that result in reductions in spreads, could impact the Company’s net interest income and net interest margin. The Federal Open Market Committee has conducted a series of basis point increases in short-term interest rates totaling 4.25% during 2022. These actions have led to generally higher interest rates overall and, accordingly, have contributed to the Company's higher net interest margin in 2022 as compared with 2021. Management assesses the potential impact of future changes in interest rates and spreads by projecting net interest income under several interest rate scenarios. In managing interest rate risk, the Company has utilized interest rate swap agreements to modify the repricing characteristics of certain portions of its earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Periodic settlement amounts arising from these agreements are reflected in either the yields on earning assets or the rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. The notional amount of interest rate swap agreements entered into for interest rate risk management purposes was $12.75 billion (excluding $4.65 billion of forward-starting swap agreements) at December 31, 2022, $15.0 billion (excluding $8.4 billion of forward-starting swap agreements) at December 31, 2021 and $19.0 billion (excluding $32.1 billion of forward-starting swap agreements) at December 31, 2020. Under the terms of those interest rate swap agreements, the Company received payments based on the outstanding notional amount at fixed rates and made payments at variable rates. At December 31, 2022, interest rate swap agreements with notional amounts of $11.25 billion were serving as cash flow hedges of interest payments associated with variable rate commercial real estate loans, compared with $13.35 billion at December 31, 2021 and $17.35 billion at December 31, 2020. Interest rate swap agreements with notional amounts of $1.5 billion at December 31, 2022 and $1.65 billion at each of December 31, 2021 and 2020 were serving as fair value hedges of fixed rate long-term borrowings. The Company enters into forward-starting interest rate swap agreements predominantly to extend the term of its interest rate swap agreements serving as cash flow hedges and provide a hedge against changing interest rates on certain of its variable rate loans. In a fair value hedge, the fair value of the derivative (the interest rate swap agreement) and changes in the fair value of the hedged item are recorded in the Company’s consolidated balance sheet with the corresponding gain or loss recognized in current earnings. The difference between changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap agreements and the hedged items represents hedge ineffectiveness and is recorded as an adjustment to the interest income or interest expense of the respective hedged item. The amounts of hedge ineffectiveness recognized in 2022, 2021 and 2020 were not material to the Company’s consolidated results of operations. In a cash flow hedge, the derivative’s gain or loss is initially reported as a component of other comprehensive income and subsequently reclassified into earnings when the forecasted transaction affects earnings. Information regarding the valuation of cash flow hedges included in other comprehensive income is presented in note 16 of Notes to Financial Statements. Information regarding the fair value of interest rate swap agreements and hedge ineffectiveness is presented in note 19 of Notes to Financial Statements. The changes in the fair 73 values of the interest rate swap agreements and the hedged items primarily result from the effects of changing interest rates and spreads. The average notional amounts of interest rate swap agreements entered into for interest rate risk management purposes, the related effect on net interest income and margin, and the weighted-average interest rates paid or received on those swap agreements are presented in table 10. Table 10 INTEREST RATE SWAP AGREEMENTS (a) Computed as a percentage of average earning assets or interest-bearing liabilities. (b) Weighted-average rate paid or received on interest rate swap agreements in effect during the year. (c) Excludes forward-starting interest rate swap agreements not in effect during the year. Provision for Credit Losses Effective January 1, 2020 the Company adopted amended accounting guidance for the measurement of credit losses on financial instruments. That guidance requires an allowance for credit losses to be deducted from the amortized cost basis of financial assets to present the net carrying value that is expected to be collected over the contractual term of the assets considering relevant information about past events, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of the reported amount. The guidance replaced the previous incurred loss model for determining the allowance for credit losses. The adoption of the amended guidance resulted in a $132 million increase in the allowance for credit losses at January 1, 2020. After giving appropriate income tax effect, the adoption reduced retained earnings by $92 million. In accordance with the current expected credit loss guidance, a provision for credit losses is recorded to adjust the level of the allowance to reflect expected credit losses that are based on economic forecasts as of each reporting date. A provision for credit losses of $517 million and $800 million was recorded in 2022 and 2020, respectively, compared with a recapture of previously recorded provision of $75 million in 2021. The provision recorded in 2022 included $242 million on loans obtained in the acquisition of People's United not deemed to be PCD. GAAP requires a provision for credit losses to be recorded beyond the recognition of the fair value of the loans at the acquisition date. In addition to the recorded provision, the allowance for credit losses was also increased by $99 million in the second quarter of 2022 to reflect the expected credit losses on loans obtained in the acquisition of People's United deemed to be PCD. That addition represents an increase of the carrying values of loans identified as PCD at the time of the acquisition. The Company's estimates of expected credit losses at December 31, 2022 reflect assumptions spurred by Federal Reserve initiatives to curb high rates of inflation that could lead to overall deterioration of economic conditions and, thus, credit quality during an eight-quarter forecast period. Risks considered included inflation, a projected rise in unemployment, reduction of economic growth projections, decreasing residential real estate prices as compared with 74 2021 and continued concerns about commercial real estate values in the hospitality, health care and office building sectors. Macroeconomic assumptions used to estimate credit losses on loans acquired from People's United at the April 1, 2022 acquisition date were consistent with those used by the Company to estimate credit losses at March 31, 2022. The recapture of provision for credit losses in 2021 as compared with the provision for credit losses recorded in 2020 reflected economic assumptions and projections that considered the macroeconomic outlook associated with the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020 and subsequent recovery in 2021. The Company’s estimates of expected losses reflect the impacts of the pandemic and other factors on economic activity, generally, and concerns about commercial real estate values in the hospitality, health care and office building sectors. Net charge-offs of loans were $160 million in 2022, $192 million in 2021 and $247 million in 2020. Net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans and leases outstanding were .13% in 2022, compared with .20% in 2021 and .26% in 2020. A summary of the Company’s loan charge-offs, provision and allowance for credit losses is presented in table 11 and in note 5 of Notes to Financial Statements. Table 11 LOAN CHARGE-OFFS, PROVISION AND ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES (a) For the year ended December 31,2022 net charge-offs do not reflect $33 million of charge-offs related to PCD loans acquired on April 1, 2022. (b) Includes $242 million related to non-PCD acquired loans recorded on April 1, 2022. (c) Not meaningful. Nonaccrual loans aggregated $2.44 billion at December 31, 2022, compared with $2.06 billion and $1.89 billion at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. As a percentage of total loans and leases outstanding, nonaccrual loans represented 1.85% at December 31, 2022, compared with 2.22% and 1.92% at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Loans obtained in the acquisition of People's United that have been classified as nonaccrual totaled $572 million at December 31, 2022. The level 75 of nonaccrual loans reflects the continuing impact of economic conditions on borrowers' abilities to make contractual payments on their loans, most notably commercial real estate loans in the hospitality, office and health care-related sectors. A summary of nonperforming assets and certain past due, renegotiated and impaired loan data and credit quality ratios is presented in table 12. Table 12 NONPERFORMING ASSET AND PAST DUE, RENEGOTIATED AND IMPAIRED LOAN DATA (a) Predominantly residential real estate loans. Prior to 2020, excludes loans acquired at a discount. (b) Prior to 2020, loans acquired at a discount that were recorded at fair value at acquisition date. This category does not include purchased impaired loans that are presented separately. (c) Prior to 2020, accruing loans acquired at a discount that were impaired at acquisition date and recorded at fair value. Accruing loa ns past due 90 days or more were $491 million or .37% of total loans and leases at December 31, 2022, $963 million or 1.04% at December 31, 2021 and $859 million or .87% at December 31, 2020. Accruing loans past due 90 days or more were predominantly residential real estate loans and included loans guaranteed by government-related entities of $363 million, $928 million and $798 million at December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The lower balance at December 31, 2022 compared with December 31, 2021 and 2020 reflects residential real estate loans guaranteed by government-related entities receiving payment deferrals during the COVID-19 pandemic, but ineligible for treatment under the CARES act, that subsequently exited those arrangements and became less than 90 days past due. Guaranteed loans included one-to-four family residential mortgage loans serviced by the Company that were repurchased to reduce associated servicing costs, including a requirement to advance principal and interest payments that had not been received from individual mortgagors. Despite the loans being purchased by the Company, the insurance or guarantee by the applicable government-related entity remains in force. The outstanding principal balances of the repurchased loans included in the amounts noted above that are guaranteed by government-related entities totaled $294 million at December 31, 2022, $889 million at December 31, 2021 and $764 million at December 31, 2020. The remaining accruing loans past due 90 days or more not guaranteed by government-related entities were loans considered to be with creditworthy borrowers that were in the process of collection or renewal. 76 Loans that were 30-89 days past due were $1.8 billion at December 31, 2022, or 1.35% of total loans outstanding, compared with $846 million or .91% at December 31, 2021 and $662 million or .67% at December 31, 2020. Loans subject to COVID-19 related payment deferrals were classified as current in accordance with regulatory guidance and, as a result, did not contribute to past due loan categories. Information about delinquent loans at December 31, 2022 and 2021 is included in note 4 of Notes to Financial Statements. The direct and indirect effects of the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in a dramatic reduction in 2020 in economic activity that severely hampered the ability of some businesses and consumers to meet their repayment obligations. The CARES Act, in addition to providing financial assistance to both businesses and consumers, created a forbearance program for federally-backed mortgage loans, protected borrowers from negative credit reporting due to loan accommodations related to the pandemic, and provided financial institutions the option to temporarily suspend certain requirements under GAAP related to troubled debt restructurings for a limited period of time to account for the effects of COVID-19. The banking regulatory agencies likewise issued guidance encouraging financial institutions to work prudently with borrowers who are, or may be, unable to meet their contractual payment obligations because of the effects of COVID-19. That guidance, with concurrence of the Financial Accounting Standards Board and provisions of the CARES Act, allowed modifications made on a good faith basis in response to COVID-19 to borrowers who were generally current with their payments prior to any relief, to not be treated as delinquent or as troubled debt restructurings. Modifications included payment deferrals (including extensions of maturity dates), covenant waivers and fee waivers. The Company worked with its customers affected by COVID-19 and granted modifications across many of its loan portfolios. To the extent that such modifications met the criteria previously described, such modifications were not classified as delinquent or as troubled debt restructurings. Loans for which payment deferrals were in effect totaled $19 million at December 31, 2022, compared with $1.2 billion and $3.8 billion at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. At December 31, 2022 such loans were predominantly secured by residential real estate. The Company also modified the terms of select loans in an effort to assist borrowers that were not related to the COVID-19 pandemic. If the borrower was experiencing financial difficulty and a concession was granted, the Company considered such modifications as troubled debt restructurings. Loan modifications included such actions as the extension of loan maturity dates and the lowering of interest rates and monthly payments. The objective of the modifications was to increase loan repayments by customers and thereby reduce net charge-offs. Information about modifications of loans that are considered troubled debt restructurings is included in note 4 of Notes to Financial Statements. Residential real estate loans modified under specified loss mitigation programs prescribed by government guarantors that were not related to the COVID-19 pandemic have not been included in renegotiated loans because the loan guarantee remains in full force and, accordingly, the Company has not granted a concession with respect to the ultimate collection of the original loan balance. Such loans totaled $399 million and $425 million at December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively. Charge-offs of commercial loans and leases , net of recoveries, aggregated $58 million in 2022, $82 million in 2021 and $119 million in 2020. As a percentage of average commercial loans, those net charge-offs were .17%, .32%, and .43% in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Commercial loans and leases in nonaccrual status were $347 million at December 31, 2022, $221 million at December 31, 2021 and $307 million at December 31, 2020. Net charge-offs of commercial real estate loans totaled $37 million during 2022, compared with $71 million during 2021 and $31 million in 2020 or .08% in 2022, .19% in 2021 and .08% in 2020 of average commercial real estate loans. The net charge-offs of commercial loans and commercial real estate loans reflect the impact of economic conditions on borrowers’ abilities to repay loans. In the commercial real estate portfolio, the higher net charge-offs in 2021 were mostly associated with the retail, office building and hospitality sectors. Commercial real estate loans classified as nonaccrual were $1.5 billion at December 31, 2022, $1.2 billion at December 77 31, 2021 and $891 million at December 31, 2020. Nonaccrual commercial real estate loans included construction-related loans of $126 million, $114 million and $115 million at the end of 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Commercial loans and leases and commercial real estate loans acquired from People's United and classified as nonaccrual totaled $118 million and $401 million, respectively, at December 31, 2022. Hotel-related commercial real estate loans (including construction) in nonaccrual status at December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020 were $512 million, $696 million, and $607 million, respectively. Net charge-offs of residential real estate loans were $2 million in each of  2022 and 2021, and $3 million in 2020 representing .01% of average residential real estate loans in each of 2022 and 2021 compared with .02% in 2020. Residential real estate loans in nonaccrual status at December 31, 2022 were $350 million, compared with $479 million and $513 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Nonaccrual limited documentation first mortgage loans aggregated $78 million at December 31, 2022, compared with $123 million and $147 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Limited documentation first mortgage loans represent loans secured by residential real estate that at origination typically included some form of limited borrower documentation requirements as compared with more traditional loans. The Company no longer originates limited documentation loans. Residential real estate loans past due 90 days or more and accruing interest totaled $345 million at December 31, 2022, $920 million at December 31, 2021 and $793 million at December 31, 2020. A substantial portion of such amounts related to government-guaranteed loans. The lower balance at December 31, 2022 reflects improved borrower repayment performance. Information about the location of nonaccrual and charged-off residential real estate loans as of and for the year ended December 31, 2022 is presented in table 13. 78 Table 13 SELECTED RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED LOAN DATA (a) Includes Delaware, Maryland, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Virginia, West Virginia and the District of Columbia. (b) Includes Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island and Vermont. Net charge-offs of consumer loans aggregated $63 million in 2022, compared with $38 million in 2021 and $93 million in 2020. As a percentage of average consumer loans those net charge-offs were .32% in 2022, .22% in 2021 and .59% in 2020. Included in net charge-offs of consumer loans were: net charge-offs of automobile loans of $1 million in 2022 and $22 million in 2020, compared with net recoveries of $2 million in 2021; recreational finance loan net charge-offs of $21 million, $13 million and $27 million during 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively; and net recoveries of home equity loans and lines of credit secured by one-to-four family residential properties of $1 million in 2022 and $3 million in 2021, compared with net charge-offs of $3 million in 2020. Net charge-offs associated with other consumer loans, including credit cards and installment loans, totaled $42 million, $30 million and $41 million in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The reduced level of net charge-offs of consumer loans in 2022 and 2021 as compared with 2020 reflects an improved economy, in general, and the level of prices associated with motor vehicles, recreational vehicles and residential real estate. Nonaccrual consumer loans were $218 million at December 31, 2022, compared with $177 million 79 and $183 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Included in nonaccrual consumer loans at the 2022, 2021 and 2020 year-ends were: automobile loans of $40 million, $34 million and $39 million, respectively; recreational finance loans of $45 million, $28 million and $26 million, respectively; and outstanding balances of home equity loans and lines of credit of $85 million, $70 million and $79 million, respectively. Consumer loans acquired from People's United and classified as nonaccrual at December 31, 2022 totaled $17 million and consisted predominantly of home equity loans and lines of credit. Information about the location of nonaccrual and charged-off home equity loans and lines of credit as of and for the year ended December 31, 2022 is presented in table 13. Information about past due and nonaccrual loans as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 is also included in note 4 of Notes to Financial Statements. Real estate and other foreclosed assets totaled $41 million at December 31, 2022, compared with $24 million at December 31, 2021 and $35 million at December 31, 2020. Net gains or losses associated with real estate and other foreclosed assets were not material in 2022, 2021 or 2020. At December 31, 2022, foreclosed assets were comprised predominantly of the Company’s holding of residential real estate-related properties. In establishing the allowance for credit losses subsequent to December 31, 2019, the Company estimates losses attributable to specific troubled credits identified through both normal and targeted credit review processes and also estimates losses for other loans and leases with similar risk characteristics on a collective basis. For purposes of determining the level of the allowance for credit losses, the Company evaluates its loan and lease portfolio by type. At the time of the Company's analysis regarding the determination of the allowance for credit losses as of December 31, 2022, concerns existed about the somewhat incomplete recovery evident in some sectors of the economy; elevated levels of inflation; fears of a slowing economy and possible recession in 2023; the volatile nature of global markets and international economic conditions that could impact the U.S. economy; Federal Reserve positioning of monetary policy; downward pressures on commercial and residential real estate values; ongoing supply chain issues and wage pressures impacting commercial borrowers; the extent to which borrowers, in particular commercial real estate borrowers, may be negatively affected by pandemic-related and general economic conditions; and continued stagnant population and economic growth in the upstate New York and Pennsylvania regions (approximately 38% of the Company's loans and leases are to customers in New York State and Pennsylvania) that historically lag other regions of the country. The Company utilizes a loan grading system to differentiate risk amongst its commercial loans and commercial real estate loans. Loans with a lower expectation of default are assigned one of ten possible “pass” loan grades while specific loans determined to have an elevated level of credit risk are classified as “criticized.” A criticized loan may be classified as “nonaccrual” if the Company no longer expects to collect all amounts according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement or the loan is delinquent 90 days or more. In response to changed conditions stemming from the pandemic and other economic factors, the Company re-graded significant portions of its commercial loans and commercial real estate loans based on financial results and projections of specific borrowers. Criticized commercial loans and commercial real estate loans totaled $10.7 billion, including $2.5 billion of loans acquired from People's United, at December 31, 2022, compared with $9.0 billion at December 31, 2021 and $7.2 billion at December 31, 2020. Despite improved economic conditions during much of 2022 as compared with 2021, as pandemic-related restrictions continued to be lifted and consumer spending increased, the business climate continues to be subjected to inflationary pressures and supply chain constraints. The level of criticized loans remains reflective of the impact of current conditions on many borrowers, particularly those with investor-owned commercial real estate loans in the hotel, office and healthcare sectors. Investor-owned commercial real estate loans comprised $7.8 billion, or 74% of total criticized loans of $10.7 billion at December 31, 2022. The weighted-average loan-to-value (“LTV”) ratios for investor-owned commercial real estate properties was approximately 57%. Criticized loans secured by investor-owned commercial real estate had a weighted-average LTV ratio of approximately 65%. 80 Line of business personnel in different geographic locations with the support of the Company’s credit risk personnel review and reassign loan grades based on their detailed knowledge of individual borrowers and their judgment of the impact on such borrowers resulting from changing conditions in their respective regions. The Company’s policy is that, at least annually, updated financial information is obtained from commercial borrowers associated with pass grade loans and additional analysis performed. On a quarterly basis, the Company’s centralized credit risk department reviews all criticized commercial loans and commercial real estate loans greater than $1 million to determine the appropriateness of the assigned loan grade, including whether the loan should be reported as accruing or nonaccruing. For criticized nonaccrual loans, additional meetings are held with loan officers and their managers, workout specialists and senior management to discuss each of the relationships. In analyzing criticized loans, borrower-specific information is reviewed, including operating results, future cash flows, recent developments and the borrower’s outlook, and other pertinent data. The timing and extent of potential losses, considering collateral valuation and other factors, and the Company’s potential courses of action are contemplated. With regard to residential real estate loans, the Company’s loss identification and estimation techniques make reference to loan performance and house price data in specific areas of the country where collateral securing the Company’s residential real estate loans is located. For residential real estate-related loans, including home equity loans and lines of credit, the excess of the loan balance over the net realizable value of the property collateralizing the loan is charged-off when the loan becomes 150 days delinquent. That charge-off is based on recent indications of value from external parties that are generally obtained shortly after a loan becomes nonaccrual. Loans to consumers that file for bankruptcy are generally charged off to estimated net collateral value shortly after the Company is notified of such filings. At December 31, 2022, approximately 54% of the Company’s home equity portfolio consisted of first lien loans and lines of credit and 46% were junior liens. With respect to junior lien loans, to the extent known by the Company, if a senior lien loan would be on nonaccrual status because of payment delinquency, even if such senior lien loan was not owned by the Company, the junior lien loan or line that is owned by the Company is placed on nonaccrual status. In monitoring the credit quality of its home equity portfolio for purposes of determining the allowance for credit losses, the Company reviews delinquency and nonaccrual information and considers recent charge-off experience. When evaluating individual home equity loans and lines of credit for charge off and for purposes of determining the allowance for credit losses, the Company considers the required repayment of any first lien positions related to collateral property. Home equity line of credit terms vary but such lines are generally originated with an open draw period of ten years followed by an amortization period of up to twenty years. At December 31, 2022, approximately 86% of all outstanding balances of home equity lines of credit related to lines that were still in the draw period, the weighted-average remaining draw periods were approximately five years, and approximately 14% were making contractually allowed payments that do not include any repayment of principal. Factors that influence the Company’s credit loss experience include overall economic conditions affecting businesses and consumers, generally, but also residential and commercial real estate valuations, in particular, given the size of the Company’s real estate loan portfolios. Commercial real estate valuations can be highly subjective, as they are based upon many assumptions. Such valuations can be significantly affected over relatively short periods of time by changes in business climate, economic conditions, interest rates and, in many cases, the results of operations of businesses and other occupants of the real property. Similarly, residential real estate valuations can be impacted by housing trends, the availability of financing at reasonable interest rates, and general economic conditions affecting consumers. The Company generally estimates current expected credit losses on loans with similar risk characteristics on a collective basis. To estimate expected losses, the Company utilizes statistically developed models to project principal balances over the remaining contractual lives of the loan 81 portfolios and determine estimated credit losses through a reasonable and supportable forecast period. The Company’s approach for estimating current expected credit losses for loans and leases at December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 included utilizing macroeconomic assumptions to project losses over a two-year reasonable and supportable forecast period. Subsequent to the forecast period, the Company reverted to longer-term historical loss experience, over a period of one year, to estimate expected credit losses over the remaining contractual life. Forward-looking estimates of certain macroeconomic variables are determined by the M&T Scenario Development Group, which is comprised of senior management business leaders and economists. The assumptions utilized as of December 31, 2022 included an average national unemployment rate of 4.0% through the reasonable and supportable forecast period. The forecast also assumed gross domestic product grows at a 1.0% average rate during the first year of the reasonable and supportable forecast period followed by a 2.5% average rate in the second year. Commercial real estate prices were assumed to cumulatively grow 1.9% and residential real estate prices were assumed to contract 6.2% over the two-year reasonable and supportable forecast period. Among the assumptions utilized as of December 31, 2021 was that the national unemployment rate would average 4.6% through the first year of the reasonable and supportable forecast period before gradually improving to 3.7% in the latter half of 2023. The forecast also assumed gross domestic product grew during 2022 at a 3.1% annual rate and during 2023 at a 2.7% average rate. Commercial real estate and residential real estate prices were assumed to cumulatively grow 11.1% and 5.9%, respectively, over the two-year reasonable and supportable forecast period. The assumptions utilized in estimating the allowance for credit losses as of December 31, 2020 included an estimated unemployment rate averaging 6.9% through 2021 followed by a gradual return to long-term historical averages by the end of 2022. Gross domestic product was assumed to grow at a 4.1% annual rate during 2021 resulting in a return to pre-pandemic levels by the end of 2022. Commercial real estate prices were assumed to decline by approximately 6.8% in 2021, followed by improvement. Residential real estate prices were not assumed to fluctuate significantly. In most instances the actual macroeconomic conditions experienced in 2021 were favorable in comparison to the forecasts made at December 31, 2020. Such improvements contributed to the recapture of provision for credit losses during 2021 of $75 million. The assumptions utilized as of January 1, 2020 at the time of the adoption of the expected credit loss accounting standard anticipated unemployment rates that averaged under 4% and steady growth in gross domestic product of 3.3% over the eight-quarter forecast period. Forecasted changes in real estate prices as of that date were not significant. The assumptions utilized were based on information available to the Company at or near December 31, 2022, 2021, 2020 and January 1, 2020 (at the time the Company was preparing its estimate of expected credit losses as of those dates). In establishing the allowance for credit losses the Company also considers the impact of portfolio concentrations, imprecision in economic forecasts, geopolitical conditions and other risk factors that influence its loss estimation process. With respect to economic forecasts, the Company assessed the likelihood of alternative economic scenarios during the two-year reasonable and supportable time period. Generally, an increase in unemployment rate or a decrease in any of the rate of change in gross domestic product, commercial real estate prices or home prices could have an adverse impact on expected credit losses and may result in an increase in the allowance for credit losses. Forward looking economic forecasts are subject to inherent imprecision and future events may differ materially from forecasted events. In consideration of such uncertainty, the following alternative economic scenarios were considered to estimate the possible impact on modeled credit losses. A potential downside economic scenario assumed the unemployment rate averages 7.1% in the reasonable and supportable forecast period. The scenario also assumed gross domestic product contracts 2.3% in the first year of the reasonable and supportable forecast period before recovering to 1.7% growth in the second year and commercial real estate and residential real estate prices 82 cumulatively decline 20.1% and 14.3%, respectively, by the end of the reasonable and supportable forecast period. A potential upside economic scenario assumed the unemployment rate declines to approximately 3.5% for the duration of the reasonable and supportable forecast period. The scenario also assumes gross domestic product grows 3.4% in the initial year of the reasonable and supportable forecast period and 2.5% in the second year while commercial real estate prices cumulatively rise 6.6% and residential real estate prices cumulatively contract 0.2% over the two-year reasonable and supportable forecast period. The scenario analyses resulted in an additional $404 million of modeled credit losses under the assumptions of the downside economic scenario, whereas under the assumptions of the upside economic scenario a $176 million reduction in modeled credit losses could occur. These examples are only a few of the numerous possible economic scenarios that could be utilized in assessing the sensitivity of expected credit losses. The estimated impacts on credit losses in such scenarios pertain only to modeled credit losses and do not include consideration of other factors the Company may evaluate when determining its allowance for credit losses. As a result, it is possible that the Company may, at another point in time, reach different conclusions regarding credit loss estimates. The Company’s process for determining the allowance for credit losses undergoes quarterly and periodic evaluations by independent risk management personnel, which among many other considerations, evaluate the reasonableness of management’s methodology and significant assumptions. Further information about the Company’s methodology to estimate expected credit losses is included in note 5 of Notes to Financial Statements. Prior to 2020, the allowance for credit losses represented the amount that in management’s judgment reflected incurred credit losses inherent in the loan and lease portfolio as of the balance sheet date. The allowance was determined by management’s evaluation of the loan and lease portfolio based on such factors as the differing economic risks associated with each loan category, the current financial condition of specific borrowers, the current economic environment in which borrowers operate, the level of delinquent loans, the value of any collateral and, where applicable, the existence of any guarantees or indemnifications. The estimation of the allowance for credit losses prior to 2020 did not consider reasonable and supportable forecasts that could have affected the collectability of the reported amounts. A comparative allocation of the allowance for credit losses for each of the past five year-ends is presented in table 14. Amounts were allocated to specific loan categories based on information available to management at the time of each year-end assessment and using the methodologies described herein. Variations in the allocation of the allowance by loan category as a percentage of those loans reflect the impact of the new accounting rules effective January 1, 2020 as well as changes in management’s estimate of credit losses in light of economic developments. Furthermore, the Company’s allowance is general in nature and is available to absorb losses from any loan or lease category. Additional information about the allowance for credit losses is included in note 5 of Notes to Financial Statements. 83 Table 14 ALLOCATION OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES TO LOAN CATEGORIES Management believes that the allowance for credit losses at December 31, 2022 appropriately reflected expected credit losses inherent in the portfolio as of that date. The allowance for credit losses totaled $1.93 billion at December 31, 2022, $1.47 billion at December 31, 2021 and $1.74 billion at December 31, 2020. The allowance for credit losses was $1.18 billion at January 1, 2020 when the current expected credit loss guidance became effective. As a percentage of loans outstanding, the allowance was 1.46% at December 31, 2022, 1.58% at December 31, 2021 and 1.76% at December 31, 2020. Using the same methodology as described herein, the Company added $341 million to the allowance for credit losses related to the $35.8 billion of loans and leases obtained in the acquisition of People's United on April 1, 2022. The combined Company allowance for credit losses at April 1, 2022 as a percentage of loans and leases outstanding was 1.42%. The level of the allowance reflects management’s evaluation of the loan and lease portfolio using the methodology and considering the factors as described herein. Should the various economic forecasts and credit factors considered by management in establishing the allowance for credit losses change and should management’s assessment of losses in the loan portfolio also change, the level of the allowance as a percentage of loans could increase or decrease in future periods. The reported level of the allowance reflects management’s evaluation of the loan and lease portfolio as of each respective date. The ratio of the allowance for credit losses to total nonaccrual loans at the end of 2022, 2021 and 2020 was 79%, 71% and 92%, respectively. Given the Company’s general position as a secured lender and its practice of charging off loan balances when collection is deemed doubtful, that ratio and changes in the ratio are generally not an indicative measure of the adequacy of the Company’s allowance for credit losses, nor does management rely upon that ratio in assessing the adequacy of the Company’s allowance for credit losses. The Company had no concentrations of credit extended to any specific industry that exceeded 10% of total loans at December 31, 2022, however residential real estate loans comprised approximately 18% of the loan portfolio. Outstanding loans to foreign borrowers aggregated $319 million at December 31, 2022, or .24% of total loans and leases. 84 Other Income Other income totaled $2.36 billion in 2022, up from $2.17 billion and $2.09 billion in 2021 and 2020, respectively. The growth in 2022 as compared with 2021 reflects revenues associated with the acquired operations of People's United (predominantly increases reflected in trust income, service charges on deposit accounts and other revenues from operations, including credit-related fees), the $136 million gain on sale of MTIA and higher trust income from legacy operations. Those increases were partially offset by lower mortgage banking revenues and a planned reduction in insufficient funds fees reflected in service charges on deposit accounts. The acquisition of People's United contributed approximately $200 million to other income in the last three quarters of 2022. The rise in other income from 2020 to 2021 was largely attributable to higher trust income, service charges on deposit accounts, brokerage services income, merchant discount and credit card fees and letter of credit and other credit-related fees, partially offset by lower trading account and non-hedging derivative gains, higher valuation losses on investment securities and a decline in the level of distributions from BLG. Mortgage banking revenues aggregated $357 million in 2022, $571 million in 2021 and $567 million in 2020. Mortgage banking revenues are comprised of both residential and commercial mortgage banking activities. The Company’s involvement in commercial mortgage banking activities includes the origination, sales and servicing of loans under the multifamily loan programs of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. Residential mortgage banking revenues, consisting of realized gains from sales of residential real estate loans and loan servicing rights, unrealized gains and losses on residential real estate loans held for sale and related commitments, residential real estate loan servicing fees, and other residential real estate loan-related fees and income, were $235 million in 2022, $406 million in 2021 and $424 million in 2020. The decline in residential mortgage banking revenues in 2022 as compared with 2021 and 2020 reflects the Company's decision late in the third quarter of 2021 to originate the majority of its residential real estate loans for retention in its loan portfolio rather than for sale. New commitments to originate residential real estate loans to be sold were approximately $314 million in 2022, compared with $3.9 billion in 2021 and $4.5 billion in 2020. Realized gains from sales of residential real estate loans and loan servicing rights and recognized net unrealized gains or losses attributable to residential real estate loans held for sale, commitments to originate loans for sale and commitments to sell loans aggregated to a loss of $2 million in 2022, compared with gains of $164 million in 2021 and $191 million in 2020. The Company expects to return to originating for sale the majority of its newly committed residential mortgage loans in the first quarter of 2023. Loans held for sale that were secured by residential real estate totaled $32 million and $474 million at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Commitments to sell residential real estate loans and commitments to originate residential real estate loans for sale at pre-determined rates totaled $53 million and $31 million, respectively, at December 31, 2022, $617 million and $233 million, respectively, at December 31, 2021 and $1.47 billion and $1.03 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2020. Net recognized unrealized losses on residential real estate loans held for sale, commitments to sell loans and commitments to originate loans for sale were $1 million at December 31, 2022, compared with net recognized unrealized gains of $10 million at December 31, 2021 and $52 million at December 31, 2020. Changes in such net unrealized gains are recorded in mortgage banking revenues and resulted in net decreases of $11 million and $16 million in 2022 and  2021, respectively, and a net increase of $40 million in 2020. Revenues from servicing residential real estate loans for others totaled $237 million in 2022 compared with $242 million in 2021 and $233 million in 2020. Residential real estate loans serviced for others aggregated $118.4 billion at December 31, 2022, $97.9 billion at December 31, 2021 and $94.4 billion at December 31, 2020. Reflected in residential real estate loans serviced for others were loans sub-serviced for others of $96.0 billion, $74.7 billion and $68.1 billion at December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Revenues earned for sub-servicing loans totaled $154 million in 2022, 85 compared with $153 million in 2021 and $129 million in 2020. The contractual servicing rights associated with loans sub-serviced by the Company were predominantly held by affiliates of BLG. Information about the Company’s relationship with BLG and its affiliates is included in note 25 of Notes to Financial Statements. Capitalized residential mortgage servicing assets totaled $194 million at December 31, 2022, compared with $217 million and $201 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Additional information about the Company’s capitalized residential mortgage servicing assets, including information about the calculation of estimated fair value, is presented in note 7 of Notes to Financial Statements. Commercial mortgage banking revenues totaled $122 million in 2022, compared with $165 million in 2021 and $143 million in 2020. Included in such amounts were revenues from loan origination and sales activities of $54 million in 2022, $89 million in 2021 and $84 million in 2020. The level of loan origination and sales activities revenues in 2022 as compared with 2021 and 2020 reflects lower volumes of commercial real estate loans originated for sale. Commercial real estate loans originated for sale to other investors totaled approximately $3.1 billion in 2022, compared with $4.0 billion in 2021 and $3.4 billion in 2020. Loan servicing revenues totaled $68 million in 2022, $76 million in 2021 and $59 million in 2020. The higher servicing revenues in 2021 were reflective of fees received from customers who repaid loans prior to maturity. Capitalized commercial mortgage servicing assets were $126 million at December 31, 2022 and $133 million at each of December 31, 2021 and 2020. Commercial real estate loans serviced for other investors totaled $26.0 billion at December 31, 2022, $23.7 billion at December 31, 2021 and $22.2 billion at December 31, 2020, and included $3.9 billion at December 31, 2022 and $4.0 billion at each of December 31, 2021 and 2020 of loan balances for which investors had recourse to the Company if such balances are ultimately uncollectable. Included in commercial real estate loans serviced for others were loans sub-serviced for others of $3.8 billion at December 31, 2022, $3.5 billion at December 31, 2021 and $3.3 billion at December 31, 2020. Commitments to sell commercial real estate loans and commitments to originate commercial real estate loans for sale aggregated $480 million and $349 million, respectively, at December 31, 2022, $751 million and $325 million, respectively, at December 31, 2021 and $641 million and $364 million, respectively, at December 31, 2020. Commercial real estate loans held for sale were $131 million, $425 million and $278 million at December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The fluctuation in balances of commercial real estate loans held for sale at December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 reflects the timing of loans originated later in each year that had not been delivered to investors by year end. Service charges on deposit accounts totaled $447 million in 2022, compared with $402 million in 2021 and $371 million in 2020. The increase in 2022 from 2021 reflects fees associated with the acquisition of People's United of $70 million and increased consumer activity, reduced by lower overdraft-related fees of approximately $40 million that reflect the Company's planned elimination, announced in February 2022, of certain non-sufficient funds fees and overdraft protection transfer charges from linked deposit accounts beginning in the second quarter of 2022. The Company also waived certain fees in the third and fourth quarters of 2022 following the conversion to the Company's deposit servicing system of People's United acquired customer deposit accounts in early September 2022. The impact of such temporary waivers was not material. The higher service charges in 2021 as compared with 2020 reflect increased consumer service charges, predominantly resulting from a reduction in COVID-19 related fee waivers and higher customer transaction activity. Trust income includes fees related to two significant businesses. The Institutional Client Services (“ICS”) business provides a variety of trustee, agency, investment management and administrative services for corporations and institutions, investment bankers, corporate tax, finance and legal executives, and other institutional clients who: (i) use capital markets financing structures; (ii) use independent trustees to hold retirement plan and other assets; and (iii) need investment and cash 86 management services. The Wealth Advisory Services (“WAS”) business offers personal trust, planning, fiduciary, asset management, family office and other services designed to help high net worth individuals and families grow, preserve and transfer wealth. Trust income aggregated $741 million in 2022, compared with $645 million in 2021 and $602 million in 2020. Trust income contributed from the acquisition of People's United totaled approximately $35 million in 2022. Revenues associated with the ICS business were $442 million in 2022 inclusive of $4 million of People's United-related revenue, compared with $375 million in 2021 and $342 million in 2020. The higher revenues in 2022 compared with 2021 were largely attributable to reduced fee waivers of $31 million resulting from higher rates on money market fund accounts and incremental fees from sales. As compared with 2020, ICS revenues in 2021 reflect sales activities and increased retirement services income resulting from growth in collective fund balances. Revenues generated by the Company's WAS business, inclusive of $27 million associated with People's United, totaled $290 million in 2022, up from $255 million in 2021 and $233 million in 2020. As compared with 2021, in addition to the impact of the People's United acquisition, WAS revenues in 2022 reflect reduced money market fee waivers of $6 million and sales activity partially offset by adverse market conditions in the equity markets. As compared with 2020, WAS revenue in 2021 reflected an increase related to equity market performance partially offset by fee waivers resulting from a low interest rate environment in 2021. Trust assets under management were $165.2 billion and $165.6 billion at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Trust assets under management include the Company’s proprietary mutual funds’ assets of $13.0 billion at December 31, 2022 and $13.2 billion at December 31, 2021. Additional trust income from investment management activities was $9 million in 2022, compared with $15 million and $27 million in 2021 and 2020, respectively, and includes fees earned from retail customer investment accounts. Lower trust income from investment management activities in 2022 reflects the full-year impact of a change in June 2021 of product delivery to retail brokerage and certain trust customers related to the LPL Financial relationship described herein resulting in revenues previously recognized in trust income to be recorded as brokerage services income, partially offset by People's United-related revenue. In December 2022 Wilmington Trust, N.A. (a subsidiary of M&T) announced the sale of its Collective Investment Trust business to a private equity firm. That sale is expected to close in the first half of 2023. Revenues associated with that business and included in ICS trust income revenues described herein totaled approximately $165 million, $151 million and $105 million during 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. After considering expenses, the results of operations of that business were not material to M&T's net income in those years. Brokerage services income, which includes revenues from the sale of mutual funds and annuities and securities brokerage fees and, since June 2021, sales of select investment products of LPL Financial (as described below), totaled $88 million in 2022, compared with $63 million in 2021 and $47 million in 2020. The increase in brokerage services income in 2022 reflects the acquisition of People's United and the full-year impact of a change in June 2021 in product delivery to retail brokerage and certain trust customers related to the LPL Financial relationship. Revenues associated with the sale of investment products of LPL Financial, an independent financial services broker, are included in “brokerage services income.” Prior to the transition to LPL Financial’s product platform, revenues earned by the Company from providing those customers with proprietary trust products managed by the Company were reported as trust income. Trading account and non-hedging derivative activity resulted in gains of $27 million in 2022, $24 million in 2021 and $41 million in 2020. The modest increase in 2022 as compared with 2021 reflects higher revenues from interest rate swap agreements and foreign exchange transactions with commercial customers, offset by declines in the value of assets held in connection with deferred compensation and other non-qualified benefit plans. The lower gains in 2021 as compared with 2020 resulted predominantly from decreased activity related to interest rate swap agreements with commercial customers. The Company enters into interest rate swap agreements and foreign exchange contracts with customers who need such services and concomitantly enters into 87 offsetting trading positions with third parties to minimize the risks involved with these types of transactions. Information about the notional amount of interest rate, foreign exchange and other non-hedging contracts entered into by the Company is included in note 19 of Notes to Financial Statements and herein under the heading “Liquidity, Market Risk, and Interest Rate Sensitivity.” The Company recognized net losses on investment securities of $6 million, $21 million and $9 million in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Those losses reflect unrealized losses on investments in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac preferred stock and other equity securities. Other revenues from operations totaled $704 million (including $88 million associated with the acquisition of People's United) in 2022, compared with $483 million in 2021 and $471 million in 2020. In addition to the revenues associated with the People's United acquisition, the higher revenues in 2022 compared with 2021 resulted from the $136 million gain on the sale of MTIA and an increase in merchant discount and credit card fees driven by increased commercial and consumer spending, partially offset by decreases in insurance income reflecting the sale of MTIA and tax-exempt income from bank owned life insurance. Comparing 2021 with 2020, higher merchant discount, credit card interchange and letter of credit and credit-related fees, largely loan syndication fees, were partially offset by lower income received from BLG during 2021. Included in other revenues from operations were the following significant components. A $136 million gain on the sale of MTIA was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2022. Letter of credit and other credit-related fees totaled $165 million, $128 million and $109 million in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The rising level of such fees since 2020 resulted largely from higher loan syndication fees and, in 2022, the impact of acquired operations from the People's United transaction. Revenues from merchant discount and credit card fees were $169 million in 2022, $140 million in 2021 and $111 million in 2020. In addition to the impact of the People's United acquisition in 2022, the higher level of such revenues in 2022 and 2021 resulted from increased customer transaction activity reflecting lessened pandemic-related restrictions on business and customer activity. Tax-exempt income earned from bank owned life insurance, which includes increases in the cash surrender value of life insurance policies and benefits received, aggregated $44 million in 2022, $47 million in 2021 and $48 million in 2020. The Company owns both general account and separate account policies. To the extent market conditions change such that the market value of assets in a separate account bank owned life insurance policy becomes less than the previously recorded cash surrender value, an adjustment is recorded as a reduction to "other revenues from operations." The increase in interest rates during 2022 led to reductions of the market values of assets in some separate account bank owned life insurance policies below previously recorded cash surrender value. Those reductions in recognized cash surrender value were not material, but are, nevertheless, recognized as a reduction of revenues. Insurance-related sales commissions and other revenues totaled $48 million in each of 2022 and 2020, compared with $47 million in 2021. Automated teller machine usage fees aggregated $11 million in each of 2022 and 2021, up from $9 million in 2020. M&T’s investment in BLG resulted in cash distributions declared and paid by BLG that are included in “other revenues from operations” of $30 million in each of 2022 and 2021, compared with $53 million in 2020. During 2017, the operating losses of BLG resulted in M&T reducing the carrying value of its investment in BLG to zero. Subsequently, M&T has received cash distributions when declared by BLG that result in the recognition of income by M&T. M&T expects cash distributions from BLG in the future, but the timing and amount of those distributions cannot be estimated. BLG is entitled to receive distributions from its affiliates that provide asset management and other services that are available for distribution to BLG’s owners, including M&T. Information about the Company’s relationship with BLG and its affiliates is included in note 25 of Notes to Financial Statements. 88 Other Expense Other expense totaled $5.05 billion in 2022, compared with $3.61 billion in 2021 and $3.39 billion in 2020. Included in those amounts are expenses considered to be “nonoperating” in nature consisting of amortization of core deposit and other intangible assets of $56 million, $10 million and $15 million in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, and merger-related expenses of $338 million and $44 million in 2022 and 2021, respectively. No merger-related expenses were incurred in 2020. Exclusive of those nonoperating expenses, noninterest operating expenses aggregated $4.66 billion in 2022, $3.56 billion in 2021 and $3.37 billion in 2020. Approximately three-fourths of the increase in 2022 from 2021 is attributable to operating expenses associated with the acquisition of People's United. A $135 million contribution to The M&T Charitable Foundation in the fourth quarter of 2022 and higher salaries and benefits expense were other factors contributing to the rise in noninterest operating expenses in 2022 as compared with 2021. The higher level of noninterest operating expenses in 2021 as compared with 2020 reflected increased costs for salaries and employee benefits (predominantly incentive compensation), outside data processing and software, FDIC assessments, and professional services expenses. Salaries and employee benefits expense aggregated $2.79 billion in 2022, compared with $2.05 billion and $1.95 billion in 2021 and 2020, respectively. Excluding nonoperating expenses, predominantly severance and related costs, salaries and employee benefits expense aggregated $2.69 billion in 2022. The higher level of operating expenses in 2022 as compared with 2021 reflect higher staffing levels, including the addition of People's United employees at the beginning of the second quarter, higher salaries resulting from merit increases and a rise in incentive compensation. Stock-based compensation totaled $111 million in 2022, compared with $85 million in 2021 and $80 million in 2020. The number of full-time equivalent employees were 22,509 at December 31, 2022, compared with 17,421 and 17,076 at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The increase in staffing levels since December 31, 2021 was predominantly the result of the acquisition of People's United. The Company provides pension and other postretirement benefits for its employees, including pension, retirement savings and post-retirement benefit plans. Expenses related to such benefits totaled $62 million in 2022, $128 million in 2021 and $118 million in 2020. The amounts recorded in salaries and employee benefits expense and other costs of operations, respectively, from the preceding sentence were as follows: $149 million and ($87 million) in 2022; $125 million and $3 million in 2021; $118 million and less than $1 million in 2020. The Company sponsors both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans. Pension expense for those plans was a net benefit of $23 million in 2022, compared with expense of $68 million in 2021 and $60 million in 2020. Components of pension expense included in other costs of operations reflect the amortization of net unrecognized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income. Prior to 2022, such net unrecognized gains and losses were amortized over the average remaining service periods of active participants in the plan. If all or substantially all of the plan’s participants are inactive, GAAP provides for the average remaining life expectancy of the participants to be used instead of average remaining service periods. Substantially all of the participants in the Company’s qualified defined benefit pension plan were inactive and, beginning in 2022, the average remaining life expectancy was utilized to amortize the net unrecognized gains and losses of the Plan. The change increased the amortization period by approximately sixteen years beginning in 2022 and, accordingly, reduced the amount of amortization of unrecognized losses recorded in the 2022 net periodic pension expense that otherwise would have been recorded by approximately $36 million. Information about the Company’s pension plans, including significant assumptions utilized in completing actuarial calculations for the plans, is included in note 13 of Notes to Financial Statements. The Company’s retirement savings plan (“RSP”) is a defined contribution plan in which eligible employees of the Company may defer up to 50% of qualified compensation via contributions to the plan. Including the impact of employees associated with the People's United acquisition, RSP expense 89 reflecting the Company’s employer matching contribution increased to $84 million in 2022, compared with $63 million in 2021 and $62 million in 2020. Excluding the nonoperating expense items already noted, nonpersonnel operating expenses were $1.97 billion in 2022, $1.51 billion in 2021 and $1.42 billion in 2020. Approximately 70% of the increase in 2022 as compared with 2021 can be attributed to People's United-related nonpersonnel operating expenses. Other factors contributing to the year-over-year increase were higher charitable contributions and outside data processing and software expenses, partially offset by lower defined benefit pension-related expenses included in other costs of operations. The increase in nonpersonnel operating expenses in 2021 as compared with 2020 reflects a rise in expenditures for outside data processing and software, FDIC assessments and professional services, partially offset by a reduction in the valuation allowance for capitalized mortgage servicing rights as compared with an increase in 2020. On October 18, 2022, the FDIC finalized a rule that increases initial base deposit insurance assessment rates by 2 basis points, beginning with the first quarterly assessment period of 2023. The Company expects that regulatory change could increase FDIC assessments by approximately $35 million in 2023. Income Taxes The provision for income taxes was $619 million in 2022, $596 million in 2021 and $416 million in 2020. The effective tax rates were 23.7% in 2022, 24.3% in 2021 and 23.5% in 2020. The effective tax rate is affected by the level of income earned that is exempt from tax relative to the overall level of pre-tax income, the level of income allocated to the various state and local jurisdictions where the Company operates, because tax rates differ among such jurisdictions, and the impact of any large discrete or infrequently occurring items. The Company’s effective tax rate in future periods will also be affected by any change in income tax laws or regulations and interpretations of income tax regulations that differ from the Company’s interpretations by any of the various tax authorities that may examine tax returns filed by M&T or any of its subsidiaries. Information about amounts accrued for uncertain tax positions and a reconciliation of income tax expense to the amount computed by applying the statutory federal income tax rate to pre-tax income is provided in note 14 of Notes to Financial Statements. International Activities Assets and revenues associated with international activities represent less than 1% of the Company’s consolidated assets and revenues. International assets included $319 million and $197 million of loans to foreign borrowers at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Loans at M&T Bank’s commercial banking office in Ontario, Canada included in international assets as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 totaled $284 million and $153 million, respectively. Deposits at that office were $34 million and $32 million at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The Company also offers trust-related services in Europe. Revenues from providing such services were approximately $36 million in each of 2022 and 2020, compared with $38 million in 2021. Liquidity, Market Risk, and Interest Rate Sensitivity As a financial intermediary, the Company is exposed to various risks, including liquidity and market risk. Liquidity refers to the Company’s ability to ensure that sufficient cash flow and liquid assets are available to satisfy current and future obligations, including demands for loans and deposit withdrawals, funding operating costs, and other corporate purposes. Liquidity risk arises whenever the maturities of financial instruments included in assets and liabilities differ. The most significant source of funding for the Company is core deposits, which are generated from a large base of consumer, corporate and institutional customers. That customer base has, over the past several years, become more geographically diverse as a result of expansion of the Company’s 90 businesses. Nevertheless, the Company faces competition in offering products and services from a large array of financial market participants, including banks, thrifts, mutual funds, securities dealers and others. Core deposits financed 85% of the Company’s earning assets at December 31, 2022, compared with 90% at December 31, 2021 and 88% at December 31, 2020. The Company supplements funding provided through core deposits with various short-term and long-term wholesale borrowings, including overnight federal funds purchased, short-term advances from the FHLB of New York, brokered deposits and longer-term borrowings. At December 31, 2022, M&T Bank had short-term and long-term credit facilities with the FHLBs aggregating $23.1 billion. Outstanding borrowings under FHLB credit facilities totaled $3.2 billion at December 31, 2022 and $2 million at December 31, 2021. Such borrowings were secured by loans and investment securities. M&T Bank had an available line of credit with the FRB of New York that totaled approximately $14.3 billion at December 31, 2022. The amount of that line is dependent upon the balances of loans and securities pledged as collateral. There were no borrowings outstanding under such line of credit at December 31, 2022 and 2021. Senior notes issued and outstanding totaled $2.5 billion at December 31, 2022 and $2.4 billion at December 31, 2021. In November 2022 M&T Bank issued $500 million of fixed rate senior notes that pay a rate of 5.4% semi-annually and mature in November 2025. In August 2022 M&T issued $500 million of senior notes that mature in August 2028 and pay a fixed rate of 4.553% semi-annually until August 2027 after which the SOFR plus 1.78% will be paid quarterly until maturity. In April 2022, M&T Bank redeemed $650 million of fixed rate senior notes that were due to mature on May 18, 2022. During May 2022, $250 million of variable rate senior notes of M&T Bank matured. As of April 1, 2022, long-term borrowings assumed in the People's United acquisition totaled $494 million and included $483 million of fixed-rate subordinated notes and $11 million of FHLB advances. In January 2023 M&T issued $1.0 billion of fixed rate to floating rate senior notes that mature in January 2034 and M&T Bank issued $1.3 billion and $1.2 billion of fixed rate senior notes that mature in January 2026 and January 2028, respectively. The Company has, from time to time, issued subordinated capital notes and junior subordinated debentures associated with trust preferred securities to provide liquidity and enhance regulatory capital ratios. Those borrowings are generally considered Tier 2 capital and are includable in total regulatory capital. Information about the Company’s borrowings is included in note 9 of Notes to Financial Statements. The Company has also benefited from the placement of brokered deposits. The Company has brokered savings and interest-bearing checking deposit accounts that aggregated $3.8 billion and $3.2 billion at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Brokered time deposits totaled $4.1 billion at December 31, 2022. There were no brokered time deposits outstanding at December 31, 2021. The Company’s ability to obtain funding from these sources could be negatively impacted should the Company experience a substantial deterioration in its financial condition or its debt ratings, or should the availability of short-term funding become restricted due to a disruption in the financial markets. The Company attempts to quantify such credit-event risk by modeling scenarios that estimate the liquidity impact resulting from a short-term ratings downgrade over various grading levels. Such impact is estimated by attempting to measure the effect on available unsecured lines of credit, available capacity from secured borrowing sources and securitizable assets. Information about the credit ratings of M&T and M&T Bank is presented in table 15. Additional information regarding the terms and maturities of all of the Company’s short-term and long-term borrowings is provided in note 9 of Notes to Financial Statements. In addition to deposits and borrowings, other sources of liquidity include maturities of investment securities and other earning assets, repayments of loans and investment securities, and cash generated from operations, such as fees collected for services. 91 Table 15 DEBT RATINGS Certain customers of the Company obtain financing through the issuance of variable rate demand bonds (“VRDBs”). The VRDBs are generally enhanced by letters of credit provided by M&T Bank. M&T Bank oftentimes acts as remarketing agent for the VRDBs and, at its discretion, may from time-to-time own some of the VRDBs while such instruments are remarketed. When this occurs, the VRDBs are classified as trading account assets in the Company’s consolidated balance sheet. Nevertheless, M&T Bank is not contractually obligated to purchase the VRDBs. The value of VRDBs in the Company’s trading account was not material at December 31, 2022 or December 31, 2021. The total amount of VRDBs outstanding backed by M&T Bank letters of credit was $604 million and $662 million at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. M&T Bank also serves as remarketing agent for most of those bonds. Table 16 MATURITY DISTRIBUTION OF LOANS AND LEASES (a) (a) The data reflects contractual paydowns, but excludes nonaccrual loans. 92 The Company enters into contractual obligations in the normal course of business that require future cash payments. The contractual amounts and timing of those payments as of December 31, 2022 are summarized in table 17. Off-balance sheet commitments to customers may impact liquidity, including commitments to extend credit, standby letters of credit, commercial letters of credit, financial guarantees and indemnification contracts, and commitments to sell real estate loans. Because many of these commitments or contracts expire without being funded in whole or in part, the contract amounts are not necessarily indicative of future cash flows. Further discussion of these commitments is provided in note 22 of Notes to Financial Statements. Table 17 summarizes the Company’s other commitments as of December 31, 2022 and the timing of the expiration of such commitments. Table 17 CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND OTHER COMMITMENTS (a) Amounts exclude discretionary funding commitments to commercial customers of $11.7 billion that the Company has the unconditional right to cancel prior to funding. M&T’s primary source of funds to pay for operating expenses, shareholder dividends and treasury stock repurchases has historically been the receipt of dividends from its banking subsidiaries, which are subject to various regulatory limitations. Dividends from any bank subsidiary to M&T are limited by the amount of earnings of the subsidiary in the current year and the two preceding years. For purposes of that test, at December 31, 2022 approximately $1.07 billion was available for payment of dividends to M&T from banking subsidiaries. M&T also may obtain funding through long-term borrowings. Outstanding senior notes of M&T at December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021 were $1.22 billion and $766 million, respectively. Junior subordinated debentures of M&T associated with trust preferred securities outstanding at December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021 totaled $536 million and $532 million, respectively. In January 2023 M&T issued $1.0 billion of fixed rate to floating rate senior notes that mature in January 2034. 93 Table 18 MATURITY AND TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT YIELD OF INVESTMENT SECURITIES (a) Investment securities available for sale are presented at estimated fair value. Yields on such securities are based on amortized cost. (b) Maturities are reflected based upon contractual payments due. Actual maturities are expected to be significantly shorter as a result of loan repayments in the underlying mortgage pools. 94 Table 19 MATURITY OF TIME DEPOSITS WITH BALANCES OVER $250,000 Management closely monitors the Company’s liquidity position on an ongoing basis for compliance with internal policies and believes that available sources of liquidity are adequate to meet funding needs anticipated in the normal course of business. Management does not anticipate engaging in any activities, either currently or in the long term, for which adequate funding would not be available and would therefore result in a significant strain on liquidity at either M&T or its subsidiary banks. Market risk is the risk of loss from adverse changes in the market prices and/or interest rates of the Company’s financial instruments. The primary market risk the Company is exposed to is interest rate risk. Interest rate risk arises from the Company’s core banking activities of lending and deposit-taking, because assets and liabilities reprice at different times and by different amounts as interest rates change. As a result, net interest income earned by the Company is subject to the effects of changing interest rates. The Company measures interest rate risk by calculating the variability of net interest income in future periods under various interest rate scenarios using projected balances for earning assets, interest-bearing liabilities and derivatives used to hedge interest rate risk. Management’s philosophy toward interest rate risk management is to limit the variability of net interest income. The balances of financial instruments used in the projections are based on expected growth from forecasted business opportunities, anticipated prepayments of loans and investment securities, and expected maturities of investment securities, loans and deposits. Management uses a “value of equity” model to supplement the modeling technique described above. Those supplemental analyses are based on discounted cash flows associated with on- and off-balance sheet financial instruments. Such analyses are modeled to reflect changes in interest rates and provide management with a long-term interest rate risk metric. The Company has entered into interest rate swap agreements to help manage exposure to interest rate risk. At December 31, 2022, the aggregate notional amount of interest rate swap agreements entered into for interest rate risk management purposes that were currently in effect was $12.75 billion. In addition, the Company has entered into $4.65 billion of forward-starting interest rate swap agreements. Information about interest rate swap agreements entered into for interest rate risk management purposes is included herein under the heading “Net Interest Income/Lending and Funding Activities” and in note 19 of Notes to Financial Statements. The Company’s Asset-Liability Committee, which includes members of executive management, monitors the sensitivity of the Company’s net interest income to changes in interest rates with the aid of a computer model that forecasts net interest income under different interest rate scenarios. In modeling changing interest rates, the Company considers different yield curve shapes that consider both parallel (that is, simultaneous changes in interest rates at each point on the yield curve) and non-parallel (that is, allowing interest rates at points on the yield curve to vary by different amounts) shifts in the yield curve. In utilizing the model, market-implied forward interest rates over the subsequent twelve months are generally used to determine a base interest rate scenario for the net interest income simulation. That calculated base net interest income is then compared with the income calculated under 95 the varying interest rate scenarios. The model considers the impact of ongoing lending and deposit-gathering activities, as well as interrelationships in the magnitude and timing of the repricing of financial instruments, including the effect of changing interest rates on expected prepayments and maturities. When deemed prudent, management has taken actions to mitigate exposure to interest rate risk through the use of on- or off-balance sheet financial instruments and intends to do so in the future. Possible actions include, but are not limited to, changes in the pricing of loan and deposit products, modifying the composition of earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and adding to, modifying or terminating existing interest rate swap agreements or other financial instruments used for interest rate risk management purposes. Table 20 displays as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 the estimated impact on net interest income in the base scenario described above resulting from parallel changes in interest rates across repricing categories during the first modeling year. Table 20 SENSITIVITY OF NET INTEREST INCOME TO CHANGES IN INTEREST RATES (a) The Company did not analyze this scenario as of December 31, 2021. The Company utilized many assumptions to calculate the impact that changes in interest rates may have on net interest income. The more significant of those assumptions included the rate of prepayments of mortgage-related assets, cash flows from derivative and other financial instruments, loan and deposit volumes and pricing, and deposit maturities. In the scenarios presented, the Company also assumed gradual changes in interest rates during a twelve-month period as compared with the base scenario. In the declining rate scenario, the rate changes may be limited to lesser amounts such that interest rates remain at or above zero on all points of the yield curve. Changes in the amounts presented since December 31, 2021 reflect higher balances of earnings assets obtained in the People's United acquisition, changes in portfolio composition, the level of market-implied forward interest rates and hedging actions taken by the Company. The assumptions used in interest rate sensitivity modeling are inherently uncertain and, as a result, the Company cannot precisely predict the impact of changes in interest rates on net interest income. Actual results may differ significantly from those presented due to the timing, magnitude and frequency of changes in interest rates and changes in market conditions and interest rate differentials (spreads) between maturity/repricing categories, as well as any actions, such as those previously described, which management may take to counter such changes. Table 21 presents cumulative totals of net assets (liabilities) repricing on a contractual basis within the specified time frames, as adjusted for the impact of interest rate swap agreements entered into for interest rate risk management purposes. Management believes that this measure does not appropriately depict interest rate risk since changes in interest rates do not necessarily affect all categories of earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities equally nor, as assumed in the table, on the contractual maturity or repricing date. Furthermore, this static presentation of interest rate risk fails to consider the effect of ongoing lending and deposit gathering activities, projected changes in balance sheet composition or any subsequent interest rate risk management activities the Company is likely to implement. 96 Table 21 CONTRACTUAL REPRICING DATA A significant amount of the Company’s earning assets, interest-bearing liabilities, preferred equity instruments and interest rate swap agreements have contractual repricing terms that reference the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”). Publication of certain tenors of LIBOR has already ceased and complete cessation of LIBOR publication is expected by June 30, 2023. Effective December 31, 2021, the Company essentially discontinued entering into new LIBOR-based contracts. The Company's enterprise-wide LIBOR transition program is monitored by executive management as well as the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors. At December 31, 2022 the Company had LIBOR-based commercial loans and leases and commercial real estate loans of $32.1 billion and residential mortgage and consumer loans of $4.1 billion outstanding. Approximately 85% of the loans either mature before June 30, 2023 or have been amended to include appropriate alternative language to be effective upon cessation of LIBOR publication. Approximately $732 million of borrowings and $1.1 billion of M&T's preferred stock reference LIBOR as of December 31, 2022. Upon cessation of LIBOR after June 30, 2023 dividends on M&T’s preferred stock and interest payments on variable rate preferred capital securities will be paid based on SOFR plus a pre-determined static spread (dependent on the tenor of LIBOR for each series of preferred stock and each preferred capital security) as proposed by the Board of Governors of the FRB. The Company’s interest rate swap agreements primarily reference LIBOR. In October 2020, the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. published the IBOR Fallbacks Supplement (“Supplement”) and the IBOR Fallback Protocol (“Protocol”). The Protocol enables market participants to incorporate certain revisions into their legacy non-cleared derivative trades with other counterparties that also choose to adhere to the Protocol. M&T adhered to the Protocol in November 2020 and is continuing the process of remediating its interest rate swap transactions with its end-user customers. With respect to the Company’s cleared interest rate swap agreements that reference LIBOR, clearinghouses have adopted the same relevant SOFR benchmark alternatives of the Supplement and Protocol. As loans mature and new originations occur a larger percentage of the Company’s variable-rate loans are expected to reference SOFR or other indexes, including the Bloomberg Short Term Bank Yield Index (“BSBY”). At December 31, 2022, the Company had approximately $28.7 billion and 97 $212 million of outstanding loan balances that reference SOFR and BSBY, respectively. Additionally, as of December 31, 2022 the Company had $12.1 billion of notional amount of interest rate swap agreements designated as cash flow hedges of commercial real estate loans, including $4.7 billion of forward-starting interest rate swap agreements that become effective in 2023, and notional amounts of $6.0 billion of non-hedging derivative interest rate contracts that are referenced to SOFR. The Company continues to work with its customers and other counterparties to remediate LIBOR-based agreements which expire after June 30, 2023 by incorporating alternative language, negotiating new agreements, or other means. The discontinuation of LIBOR and uncertainty relating to the emergence of one or more alternative benchmark indexes to replace LIBOR could materially impact the Company’s interest rate risk profile and its management thereof. In addition to the effect of interest rates, changes in fair value of the Company’s financial instruments can also result from a lack of trading activity for similar instruments in the financial markets. That impact is most notable on the values assigned to some of the Company’s investment securities. Information about the fair valuation of investment securities is presented in notes 3 and 21 of Notes to Financial Statements. The Company enters into interest rate and foreign exchange contracts to meet the financial needs of customers that it includes in its financial statements as non-hedging derivatives within other assets and other liabilities. Financial instruments utilized for such activities consist predominantly of interest rate swap agreements and forward and futures contracts related to foreign currencies. The Company generally mitigates the foreign currency and interest rate risk associated with customer activities by entering into offsetting positions with third parties that are also included in other assets and other liabilities. The fair values of non-hedging derivative positions associated with interest rate contracts and foreign currency and other option and futures contracts are presented in note 19 of Notes to Financial Statements. As with any non-government guaranteed financial instrument, the Company is exposed to credit risk associated with counterparties to the Company’s non-hedging derivative activities. Although the notional amounts of these contracts are not recorded in the consolidated balance sheet, the unsettled fair values of those financial instruments are recorded in the consolidated balance sheet. The fair values of such non-hedging derivative assets and liabilities recognized on the balance sheet were $380 million and $1.3 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2022 and $418 million and $83 million, respectively, at December 31, 2021. The fair value of asset and liability amounts at December 31, 2022 have been reduced by contractual settlements of $1.1 billion and $29 million, respectively, and at December 31, 2021 by contractual settlements of $54 million and $305 million, respectively. The values associated with the Company's non-hedging derivative activities at December 31, 2022 as compared with December 31, 2021 reflect changes in values associated with the interest rate swap agreements entered into with commercial customers that are not subject to periodic variation margin settlement payments. Trading account assets at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, were $118 million and $50 million and included assets related to deferred compensation plans aggregating $23 million and $21 million. Changes in the fair values of such assets are recorded as “trading account and non-hedging derivative gains” in the consolidated statement of income. Included in “other liabilities” in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2022 and 2021 were $29 million and $24 million, respectively, of liabilities related to deferred compensation plans. Changes in the balances of such liabilities due to the valuation of allocated investment options to which the liabilities are indexed are recorded in “other costs of operations” in the consolidated statement of income. Also included in trading account assets were investments in mutual funds and other assets that the Company was required to hold under terms of certain non-qualified supplemental retirement and other benefit plans that were assumed by the Company in various acquisitions. Those assets totaled $95 million at December 31, 2022, and $29 million at December 31, 2021. The increase at December 31, 2022 as compared with December 31, 2021 reflects assets obtained in the acquisition of the People's United non-qualified supplemental retirement and other benefit plans. 98 Given the Company’s policies, limits and positions, management believes that the potential loss exposure to the Company resulting from market risk associated with trading account and non-hedging derivative activities was not material, however, as previously noted, the Company is exposed to credit risk associated with counterparties to transactions related to the Company’s actions to mitigate foreign currency and interest rate risk associated with customer activities. Additional information about the Company’s use of derivative financial instruments is included in note 19 of Notes to Financial Statements. Capital Shareholders’ equity was $25.3 billion at December 31, 2022 and represented 12.61% of total assets, compared with $17.9 billion or 11.54% at December 31, 2021 and $16.2 billion or 11.35% at December 31, 2020. The increase in shareholders' equity from December 31, 2021 reflects the issuance of 50,325,004 M&T common shares and other common equity consideration totaling $8.4 billion for the acquisition of People's United and the conversion of People's United preferred stock into 10,000,000 shares of Series H Perpetual Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-cumulative Preferred Stock of M&T ("Series H Preferred Stock") amounting to $261 million. Included in shareholders’ equity was preferred stock with financial statement carrying values of $2.01 billion at December 31, 2022, compared with $1.75 billion at December 31, 2021, and $1.25 billion at December 31, 2020. On April 1, 2022, the Company closed the acquisition of People's United resulting in the issuance of 10,000,000 shares of Series H Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share and liquidation preference of $25.00 per share, valued at $261 million. Through December 14, 2026, holders of the Series H Preferred Stock are entitled to receive, only when, as and if declared by M&T's Board of Directors, non-cumulative cash dividends at an annual rate of 5.625%, payable quarterly in arrears. Subsequent to December 14, 2026, holders will be entitled to receive, only when, as and if declared by M&T's Board of Directors, non-cumulative cash dividends at a variable rate as described in note 10 of Notes to Financial Statements. The Series H preferred stock may be redeemed at M&T's option, in whole or in part, from time to time, on or after April 1, 2027 or, in whole but not in part, at any time within 90 days following a regulatory treatment event whereby the full liquidation value of the shares no longer qualifies as "additional Tier 1 capital". The Series H Preferred Stock is listed on the NYSE under the symbol MTBPrH. On August 17, 2021, M&T issued 50,000 shares of Series I Perpetual Fixed-Rate Reset Non-cumulative Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 and liquidation preference of $10,000 per share. Through August 31, 2026 holders of the Series I preferred stock are entitled to receive, only when, as and if declared by M&T’s Board of Directors, non-cumulative cash dividends at an annual rate of 3.5%, payable semiannually in arrears. Subsequent to August 31, 2026 holders will be entitled to receive, only when, as and if declared by M&T’s Board of Directors, non-cumulative cash dividends at an annual rate of the five-year U.S. Treasury Rate plus 2.679%, payable semiannually in arrears. The Series I preferred stock may be redeemed at M&T’s option, in whole or in part, on any dividend payment date on or after September 1, 2026 or, in whole but not in part, at any time within 90 days following a regulatory capital treatment event whereby the full liquidation value of the shares no longer qualifies as “additional Tier 1 capital." Common shareholders’ equity totaled $23.3 billion, or $137.68 per share, at December 31, 2022, compared with $16.2 billion, or $125.51 per share, at December 31, 2021 and $14.9 billion, or $116.39 per share, at December 31, 2020. Tangible equity per common share, which excludes goodwill and core deposit and other intangible assets and applicable deferred tax balances, was $86.59 at December 31, 2022, compared with $89.80 and $80.52 at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The Company’s ratio of tangible common equity to tangible assets was 7.63% at December 31, 2022, compared with 7.68% and 7.49% at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Reconciliations of total common shareholders’ equity and tangible common equity and total assets and tangible assets as of December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 are presented in table 2. During 2022, 2021 and 2020, the ratio 99 of average total shareholders’ equity to average total assets was 12.51%, 11.08% and 11.80%, respectively. The ratio of average common shareholders’ equity to average total assets was 11.49%, 10.13% and 10.88% in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Shareholders’ equity reflects accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, which includes the net after-tax impact of unrealized gains or losses on investment securities classified as available for sale, remaining unrealized losses on held-to-maturity securities transferred from available for sale that have not yet been amortized, gains or losses associated with interest rate swap agreements designated as cash flow hedges, foreign currency translation adjustments and adjustments to reflect the funded status of defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans. Net unrealized losses on investment securities reflected in shareholders’ equity, net of applicable tax effect, were $329 million, or $1.94 per common share, at December 31, 2022, compared with net unrealized gains of $78 million, or $.60 per common share, at December 31, 2021, and $145 million, or $1.13 per common share, at December 31, 2020. Changes in unrealized gains and losses on investment securities are predominantly reflective of the impact of changes in interest rates on the values of such securities. Information about unrealized gains and losses as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 is included in note 3 of Notes to Financial Statements. Reflected in the carrying amount of available-for-sale investment securities at December 31, 2022 were pre-tax effect unrealized gains of $515,000 on securities with an amortized cost of $135 million and pre-tax effect unrealized losses of $445 million on securities with an amortized cost of $11.1 billion. Information concerning the Company’s fair valuations of investment securities is provided in notes 3 and 21 of Notes to Financial Statements. Each reporting period the Company reviews its available-for-sale investment securities for declines in value that might be indicative of credit-related losses through an analysis of the creditworthiness of the issuer or the credit performance of the underlying collateral supporting the bond. If the Company does not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of a debt security a credit loss is recognized in the consolidated statement of income. A loss is also recognized if the Company intends to sell a bond or it more likely than not will be required to sell a bond before recovery of the amortized cost basis. As of December 31, 2022, based on a review of each of the securities in the available-for-sale investment securities portfolio, the Company concluded that it expected to realize the amortized cost basis of each security. As of December 31, 2022, the Company did not intend to sell nor is it anticipated that it would be required to sell any securities for which fair value was less than the amortized cost basis of the security. The Company intends to continue to closely monitor the performance of its securities because changes in their underlying credit performance or other events could cause the amortized cost basis of those securities to become uncollectable. Accounting guidance requires investment securities held to maturity to be presented at their net carrying value that is expected to be collected over their contractual term. The Company estimated no material allowance for credit losses for its investment securities classified as held-to-maturity at December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021. The amortized cost basis and fair value of obligations of states and political subdivisions in the held-to-maturity portfolio totaled $2.6 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2022. Those municipal securities were predominantly obtained in the acquisition of People's United. At December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, the Company had in its held-to-maturity portfolio privately issued mortgage-backed securities with an amortized cost basis of $50 million and $62 million, respectively, and a fair value of $51 million and $57 million, respectively. At December 31, 2022, 83% of the mortgage-backed securities were in the most senior tranche of the securitization structure. The mortgage-backed securities are generally collateralized by residential and small-balance commercial real estate loans originated between 2004 and 2008. After considering the repayment structure and estimated future collateral cash flows of each individual bond, the Company has concluded that as of December 31, 2022, it expected to recover the amortized cost basis of those privately issued mortgage-backed securities. Nevertheless, it is possible that adverse 100 changes in the estimated future performance of mortgage loan collateral underlying such securities could impact the Company’s conclusions. Adjustments to reflect the funded status of defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans, net of applicable tax effect, reduced accumulated other comprehensive income by $202 million, or $1.19 per common share, at December 31, 2022, $267 million, or $2.08 per common share, at December 31, 2021 and $481 million, or $3.75 per common share, at December 31, 2020. Information about the funded status of the Company’s pension and other postretirement benefit plans is included in note 13 of Notes to Financial Statements. On January 20, 2021, M&T’s Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase plan to repurchase up to $800 million of shares of M&T’s common stock subject to all applicable regulatory limitations. There were no repurchases pursuant to that authorization during 2021 and in February 2022 the Board reaffirmed that plan. In the second quarter of 2022, M&T repurchased 3,505,946 shares of its common stock for $600 million under that plan. On July 19, 2022, M&T's Board of Directors authorized a new stock purchase program to repurchase up to $3.0 billion of common shares subject to all applicable regulatory reporting limitations. The plan authorized in July 2022 replaced the previous plan. In the last two quarters of 2022, M&T repurchased 6,947,336 shares of its common stock for $1.2 billion under the new program resulting in a total of 10,453,082 common shares repurchased for $1.8 billion in 2022. Pursuant to previously approved capital plans and authorizations by M&T’s Board of Directors, M&T repurchased 2,577,000 common shares for $374 million in 2020. During the fourth quarter of 2021, M&T’s Board of Directors authorized an increase in the quarterly common stock dividend to $1.20 per common share from the previous rate of $1.10 per common share. Cash dividends declared on M&T’s common stock totaled $788 million in 2022, compared with $584 million and $569 million in 2021 and 2020, respectively. Dividends per common share totaled $4.80 in 2022, compared with $4.50 and $4.40 in 2021 and 2020, respectively. Dividends of $97 million in 2022, $73 million in 2021 and $68 million in 2020 were declared on preferred stock in accordance with the terms of each series. M&T and its subsidiary banks are required to comply with applicable capital adequacy standards established by the federal banking agencies. Pursuant to those regulations, the minimum capital ratios are as follows: • 4.5% Common Equity Tier 1 (“CET1”) to risk-weighted assets (each as defined in the capital regulations); • 6.0% Tier 1 capital (that is, CET1 plus Additional Tier 1 capital) to risk-weighted assets (each as defined in the capital regulations); • 8.0% Total capital (that is, Tier 1 capital plus Tier 2 capital) to risk-weighted assets (each as defined in the capital regulations); and • 4.0% Tier 1 capital to average consolidated assets as reported on consolidated financial statements (known as the “leverage ratio”), as defined in the capital regulations. Capital regulations require buffers in addition to the minimum risk-based capital ratios noted above. M&T is subject to a stress capital buffer requirement that is determined through the Federal Reserve’s supervisory stress tests and M&T’s bank subsidiaries are subject to a 2.5% capital conservation buffer requirement. The buffer requirement must be composed entirely of CET1 and for each entity was 2.5% of risk-weighted assets through September 30, 2022. In June 2022, the Federal Reserve released the results of its most recent supervisory stress tests. Based on those results, on October 1, 2022, M&T's stress capital buffer of 4.7% became effective. The federal bank regulatory agencies have issued rules that allow banks and bank holding companies to phase-in the impact of adopting the expected credit loss accounting model on regulatory capital. Those rules allow banks and bank holding companies to delay for two years the day one impact 101 on retained earnings of adopting the expected loss accounting standard and 25% of the cumulative change in the reported allowance for credit losses subsequent to the initial adoption through the end of 2021, followed by a three-year transition period. The regulatory capital amounts and ratios of M&T and its bank subsidiaries as of December 31, 2022 are presented in note 24 of Notes to Financial Statements. A detailed discussion of the regulatory capital rules is included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K under the heading “Capital Requirements.” The Company is subject to the comprehensive regulatory framework applicable to bank and financial holding companies and their subsidiaries, which includes examinations by a number of regulators. Regulation of financial institutions such as M&T and its subsidiaries is intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the Deposit Insurance Fund of the FDIC and the banking and financial system as a whole, and generally is not intended for the protection of shareholders, investors or creditors other than insured depositors. Changes in laws, regulations and regulatory policies applicable to the Company’s operations can increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities or affect the competitive environment in which the Company operates, all of which could have a material effect on the business, financial condition or results of operations of the Company and in M&T’s ability to pay dividends. For additional information concerning this comprehensive regulatory framework, refer to Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K. Fourth Quarter Results Net income in the fourth quarter of 2022 was $765 million, compared with $458 million in the year-earlier quarter. Diluted and basic earnings per common share were $4.29 and $4.32, respectively, in the final 2022 quarter, compared with diluted and basic earnings per common share of $3.37 in the corresponding quarter of 2021. The annualized rates of return on average assets and average common shareholders’ equity for the final quarter of 2022 were 1.53% and 12.59%, respectively, compared with 1.15% and 10.91%, respectively, in the corresponding quarter of 2021. Net operating income during 2022’s fourth quarter was $812 million, compared with $475 million in the year-earlier quarter. Diluted net operating earnings per common share were $4.57 and $3.50 in the fourth quarters of 2022 and 2021, respectively. The annualized net operating returns on average tangible assets and average tangible common equity in the final three months of 2022 were 1.70% and 21.29%, respectively, compared with 1.23% and 15.98%, respectively, in the similar 2021 period. Reconciliations of GAAP results with non-GAAP results for the quarterly periods of 2022 and 2021 are provided in table 23. Taxable-equivalent net interest income aggregated $1.84 billion in the final quarter of 2022, compared with $937 million in the year-earlier period. That increase reflects a 148 basis point expansion of the net interest margin to 4.06% from 2.58% in the year-earlier quarter and the impact of earning assets associated with the acquisition of People's United. Average earning assets increased to $179.9 billion in 2022’s fourth quarter as compared with $144.4 billion in the final quarter of 2021. The $35.5 billion increase in average earning assets was driven by a $36.2 billion increase in average outstanding loans and an $18.5 billion increase in average investment securities, partially offset by a $19.2 billion decline in deposit balances at the FRB of New York and other banks. Loans acquired from People's United totaled $35.8 billion on the April 1, 2022 acquisition date and consisted of approximately $13.6 billion of commercial loans and leases, $13.5 billion of commercial real estate loans, $7.1 billion of residential real estate loans and $1.6 billion of consumer loans. Average balances of commercial loans and leases were $40.0 billion in the recent quarter, up $17.7 billion or 79% from $22.3 billion in the fourth quarter of 2021. That increase was largely attributable to acquired balances from the People's United acquisition and loan growth, partially offset by decreased average balances of PPP loans, due to loan repayments by the Small Business Administration. PPP loans averaged $141 million in 2022’s final quarter, compared with $1.6 billion in the year-earlier quarter. Average commercial real estate loan balances aggregated $45.7 billion in the final quarter of 2022, up $9.0 102 billion or 24% from $36.7 billion in the year-earlier quarter. Partially offsetting the increase in commercial real estate loans from the acquisition of People's United was a reduction in balances of construction and permanent mortgage loans, reflecting repayments by customers. Included in those totals were average balances of loans held for sale of $299 million in the final quarter of 2022, compared with $535 million in the corresponding period of 2021. Average residential real estate loan balances increased $7.0 billion to $23.3 billion in the fourth quarter of 2022 from $16.3 billion in the year-earlier quarter, reflecting loans obtained in the acquisition of People's United and the Company's decision in the third quarter of 2021 to retain rather than sell most originated residential mortgage loans. Consumer loans averaged $20.3 billion in the last three months of 2022, $2.4 billion or 14% higher than in the year-earlier quarter reflecting the impact of loans obtained in the acquisition of People's United (that consisted predominantly of outstanding balances of home equity lines of credit) and growth in average recreational finance loans (consisting predominantly of loans secured by recreational vehicles and boats). The net interest spread expanded in the fourth quarter of 2022 to 3.62%, up 110 basis points from 2.52% in the corresponding quarter of 2021. The yield on earning assets in the last three months of 2022 was 4.60%, up 196 basis points from 2.64% in the year-earlier quarter. The rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities in the 2022’s final quarter was .98%, up 86 basis points from .12% in the similar quarter of 2021. The contribution of net interest-free funds to the Company’s net interest margin was .44% and .06% in the fourth quarters of 2022 and 2021, respectively. The provision for credit losses was $90 million in the fourth quarter of 2022, compared with a recapture of provision of $15 million in the year-earlier period. Net loan charge-offs were $40 million in the last three months of 2022, representing an annualized .12% of average loans and leases outstanding, compared with $31 million or .13% during the similar 2021 period. Net charge-offs in the fourth quarters of 2022 and 2021 included: net charge-offs of commercial loans of $8 million in 2022 and $25 million in 2021; net charge-offs of commercial real estate loans of $8 million in 2022 compared with net recoveries of $7 million in 2021; net charge-offs of residential real estate loans of less than $1 million in 2022 and $2 million in 2021; and net charge-offs of consumer loans of $24 million in 2022 and $11 million in 2021. Other income rose to $682 million in the fourth quarter of 2022 from $579 million in the similar 2021 period. The increase reflects the impact of the acquired operations of People's United (predominantly increases in trust income, services charges on deposit accounts and credit-related fees) and higher trust income from legacy operations, as well as the $136 million gain on the sale of MTIA. Those increases were partially offset by a decline in mortgage banking revenues resulting from lower volumes of residential and commercial real estate loans originated for sale, lower income recorded from the Company's investment in Bayview Lending Group, and a planned reduction of insufficient funds fees reflected in service charges on deposit accounts. Other expense totaled $1.41 billion during the recent quarter, compared with $928 million in the final quarter of 2021. Included in such amounts are expenses considered to be “nonoperating” in nature consisting of amortization of core deposit and other intangible assets of $18 million and $2 million during the quarters ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, and merger-related expenses of $45 million in fourth quarter of 2022 and $21 million in the similar 2021 period. Exclusive of those nonoperating expenses, noninterest operating expenses were $1.35 billion in the fourth quarter of 2022 and $904 million in the corresponding 2021 quarter. The higher level of expenses in the recent quarter as compared with the fourth quarter of 2021 was predominantly due to the impact of operations obtained in the People's United acquisition and the $135 million contribution to The M&T Charitable Foundation. Higher salaries and employee benefits expenses were offset by lower defined benefit pension-related expenses included in other costs of operations. The Company’s efficiency ratio during the final quarters of 2022 and 2021 was 53.3% and 59.7%, respectively. Table 23 includes a 103 reconciliation of other expense to noninterest operating expense and the calculation of the efficiency ratio for each of the quarters of 2022 and 2021. Segment Information In accordance with GAAP, the Company’s reportable segments have been determined based upon its internal profitability reporting system, which is organized by strategic business unit. Certain strategic business units have been combined for segment information reporting purposes where the nature of the products and services, the type of customer, and the distribution of those products and services are similar. The reportable segments are Business Banking, Commercial Banking, Commercial Real Estate, Discretionary Portfolio, Residential Mortgage Banking and Retail Banking. The financial information of the Company’s segments was compiled utilizing the accounting policies described in note 23 of Notes to Financial Statements. The management accounting policies and processes utilized in compiling segment financial information are highly subjective and, unlike financial accounting, are not based on authoritative guidance similar to GAAP. As a result, reported segments and the financial information of the reported segments are not necessarily comparable with similar information reported by other financial institutions. Furthermore, changes in management structure or allocation methodologies and procedures may result in changes in reported segment financial data. The Company continues to evaluate its indirect fixed and variable expenses included within the “All Other” category to determine if the expenses may be allocated to the Company’s various segments to support strategic business decisions by the Company’s executive leadership. As a result, in the fourth quarter of 2022 the Company implemented the following: an additional allocation of incentive compensation; a refinement of consumption-driven services allocations including cybersecurity and modeling functions; an expanded allocation of franchise-type services such as risk management, data services and legal services; and a refinement in allocation of technology application costs in support of business activities. Additionally, certain lending relationships within the hospitality sector that had previously received oversight within the Commercial Banking segment were realigned to the Commercial Real Estate segment. Accordingly, prior period financial information for 2021 and 2020 has been reclassified to provide segment information on a comparable basis. Financial information about the Company’s segments is presented in note 23 of Notes to Financial Statements. The Business Banking segment provides a wide range of services to small businesses and professionals within markets served by the Company through the Company’s branch network, business banking centers and other delivery channels such as telephone banking, Internet banking and automated teller machines. Services and products offered by this segment include various business loans and leases, including loans guaranteed by the SBA, business credit cards, deposit products, and financial services such as cash management, payroll and direct deposit, merchant credit card and letters of credit. The Business Banking segment recorded net income of $313 million in 2022, compared with $207 million in 2021. That 51% rise in net income reflected a nine-month impact of the People’s United acquisition and was predominantly attributable to increases of $193 million in net interest income, $17 million in service charges on deposit accounts and $10 million in merchant discount and credit card fees, partially offset by a rise in centrally-allocated costs associated with data processing, risk management and other support services provided to the Business Banking segment of $53 million and higher personnel-related costs of $13 million. The growth in net interest income reflected an increase in average outstanding deposit balances of $5.4 billion and a widening of the net interest margin on deposits of 99 basis points, partially offset by a narrowing of the net interest margin on loans of 101 basis points that reflected a lower level of PPP fee income resulting from repayment of loans by the SBA. The Business Banking segment contributed net income of $154 million in 2020. The 34% increase in 2021 as compared with 2020 resulted from higher net interest income of $56 million, a $15 million decline in the provision for credit losses and higher merchant discount and credit card fees of $12 million, partially offset by higher personnel-related costs of $11 million. The higher net interest 104 income reflected a 127 basis point widening of the net interest margin on loans and higher average deposit balances of $3.3 billion, partially offset by a 57 basis point narrowing of the net interest margin on deposits. The widening margin on loans resulted from a higher level of PPP fee income resulting from the repayment of loans by the SBA. The increase in average deposits resulted from a continued desire by the customers of the Business Banking segment to maintain liquidity during the pandemic and amid the low interest rate environment. The Commercial Banking segment provides a wide range of credit products and banking services for middle-market and large commercial customers, mainly within the markets served by the Company. Services provided by this segment include commercial lending and leasing, letters of credit, deposit products, and cash management services. Net income for the Commercial Banking segment was $730 million in 2022, compared with $499 million in 2021. The 46% rise in net income was predominantly due to an increase in net interest income of $506 million, reflecting a widening of the net interest margin on deposits of 97 basis points and higher average outstanding balances in loans and deposits of $13.4 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively (including the nine-month impact of the People’s United acquisition), an increase of $56 million in credit-related fees, higher service charges on deposit accounts of $13 million and a rise in merchant discount and credit card fees of $9 million. Those favorable factors were offset, in part, by increases in centrally-allocated costs associated with data processing, risk management and other support services provided to the Commercial Banking segment of $125 million, personnel-related costs of $105 million and other costs of operations of $31 million (all largely reflecting the nine-month impact of the People’s United acquisition). Net income for the Commercial Banking segment totaled $476 million in 2020. The most significant factors contributing to the rise in net income from 2020 to 2021 included higher letter of credit and other credit-related fees of $22 million, an increase in merchant discount and credit card fees of $13 million and a lower provision for credit losses of $10 million, partially offset by an increase of $13 million in centrally-allocated costs associated with data processing, risk management and other support services provided to the Commercial Banking segment. The Commercial Real Estate segment provides credit and deposit services to its customers. Commercial real estate loans may be secured by apartment/multifamily buildings, hotels, office, retail and industrial space or other types of collateral. Activities of this segment also include the origination, sales and servicing of commercial real estate loans through the Fannie Mae DUS program and other programs. Commercial real estate loans held for sale are included in this segment. The Commercial Real Estate segment recorded net income of $446 million in 2022, up 26% from $354 million in 2021. That rise reflects a $116 million decrease in the provision for credit losses due to lower net charge-offs and higher net interest income of $72 million. Also contributing to higher net income were increases in credit-related fees of $8 million and non-hedging derivative gains of $7 million resulting mainly from increased activity related to interest rate swap transactions executed on behalf of commercial customers. Partially offsetting those positive factors was a decline in commercial mortgage banking revenues reflecting lower commercial real estate loan origination and sales activity, and higher centrally-allocated costs associated with data processing, risk management and other support services provided to the Commercial Real Estate segment of $57 million. The increase in net interest income reflected a widening of the net interest margin on deposits of 89 basis points and higher average balances of loans and deposits of $3.4 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively, partially offset by a tightening of the net interest margin on loans of 31 basis points. Net income for this segment was $400 million in 2020. The decline from 2020 to 2021 was primarily attributable to a $45 million decrease in net interest income, reflecting a 58 basis point narrowing of the net interest margin on deposits and lower average loan balances of $266 million. Additionally, lower non-hedging derivitive gains of $12 million resulting from decreased activity related to interest rate swap agreements executed on behalf of commercial customers, increased amortization of capitalized commercial mortgage servicing rights of $7 million, higher FDIC assessments and personnel related costs of $6 million each and a $5 million 105 increase in centrally-allocated costs associated with data processing, risk management and other support services provided to the Commercial Real Estate segment were partially offset by a $17 million increase in commercial mortgage servicing income. The Discretionary Portfolio segment includes investment securities, residential real estate loans and other assets, short-term and long-term borrowed funds, brokered deposits, and, through June 2021, Cayman Islands office deposits. This segment also provides foreign exchange services to customers. Net income of the Discretionary Portfolio segment amounted to $17 million in 2022 and $287 million in 2021. The decline in net income can be attributed to lower net interest income reflecting reduced income from interest rate swap agreements entered into for interest rate risk management purposes. Intersegment fees paid to the Residential Mortgage Banking segment during 2022 increased $41 million and centrally-allocated costs associated with data processing, risk management and other support services provided to the Discretionary Portfolio segment increased $8 million. Partially offsetting those unfavorable factors was a $16 million reduction in unrealized valuation losses on equity investment securities as compared with 2021. The Discretionary Portfolio segment recorded net income of $321 million in 2020. The 11% decline in the 2021’s net income as compared with 2020 reflects a $21 million increase in intersegment fees related to the transfer of residential mortgage loans to the Discretionary Portfolio segment from the Residential Mortgage Banking segment and a $12 million decrease in the value of equity securities. The Residential Mortgage Banking segment originates and services residential mortgage loans and sells substantially all of those loans in the secondary market to investors or to the Discretionary Portfolio segment. The Company periodically purchases the rights to service loans and also sub-services residential real estate loans for others. Residential real estate loans held for sale are included in this segment. The Residential Mortgage Banking segment generated $21 million of net income in 2022, compared with $169 million in 2021. The decline compared with 2021 was largely due to a decrease in revenues (including intersegment revenues) resulting from lower mortgage origination and sales activities of $135 million, lower net interest income of $52 million and a $14 million rise in centrally-allocated costs associated with data processing, risk management and other support services provided to the Residential Mortgage Banking segment, partially offset by an increase of $15 million in revenues associated with servicing residential real estate loans (including intersegment revenues). The decrease in net interest income was driven by a decline in average outstanding balances of loans and deposits of $1.7 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively. Net income for the Residential Mortgage Banking segment increased 31% to $169 million in 2021 from $129 million in 2020. That year-over-year increase was attributable to higher net interest income of $40 million, reflecting higher average loan balances of $1.3 billion, and increased revenues associated with servicing and sub-servicing residential real estate loans (including intersegment revenues) of $9 million. The Retail Banking segment offers a variety of services to consumers through several delivery channels which include branch offices, automated teller machines, telephone banking and Internet banking. The Company has branch offices in New York State, Maryland, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Maine, Vermont, New Hampshire, Virginia, West Virginia and the District of Columbia. Credit services offered by this segment include consumer installment loans, automobile and recreational finance loans (originated both directly and indirectly through dealers), home equity loans and lines of credit, and credit cards. The segment also offers to its customers deposit products, including demand, savings and time accounts, investment products, including mutual funds and annuities and other services. Net income for the Retail Banking segment was $631 million in 2022, up from $324 million in 2021. The improvement from 2021 reflected higher net interest income of $873 million and higher consumer service charges on deposit accounts of $12 million. Those favorable factors were partially offset by higher personnel-related costs of $181 million, a rise in centrally-allocated expenses associated with support services provided to the Retail Banking segment of $128 million, an increase in equipment and net occupancy costs of $85 million, higher professional services 106 expense of $25 million, and an increase in the provision for credit losses of $24 million (all reflecting the nine-month impact of the People’s United acquisition). The increase in net interest income reflected a 94 basis point widening of the net interest margin on deposits and higher average outstanding deposit and loan balances of $19.3 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively. Retail Banking segment net income aggregated $324 million in 2021 compared with $332 million in 2020. Factors contributing to the decline in net income in 2021 included a decrease of $78 million in net interest income and increased centrally-allocated costs, largely associated with data processing, risk management and other support services provided to the Retail Banking segment. The net interest income decline reflected a narrowing of the net interest margin on deposits of 49 basis points, partially offset by higher average outstanding balances of deposits and loans of $5.1 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. The unfavorable factors were partially offset by a $53 million decrease in the provision for credit losses, a $22 million decrease in personnel-related costs (reflecting lower staffing levels), a $20 million rise in service charges on deposit accounts and an $8 million increase in merchant discount and credit card fees. The “All Other” category reflects other activities of the Company that are not directly attributable to the reported segments. Reflected in this category are the amortization of core deposit and other intangible assets from the acquisitions of financial institutions, distributions from BLG, merger-related expenses related to acquisitions (when incurred) and the net impact of the Company’s allocation methodologies for internal transfers for funding charges and credits associated with the earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities of the Company’s reportable segments and the provision for credit losses. The “All Other” category also includes trust income of the Company that reflects the ICS and WAS business activities. The various components of the “All Other” category resulted in a net loss of $165 million in 2022 compared with net income of $20 million in 2021. The net loss in 2022 as compared with 2021’s net income resulted from an increase in the provision for credit losses, increases in expenses resulting from the acquisition of People’s United (inclusive of merger-related expenses) and higher contributions to The M&T Charitable Foundation. Those unfavorable factors were partially offset by higher net interest income reflecting the favorable impact from the Company’s allocation methodologies for internal transfers for funding charges and credits associated with earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities of the Company’s reportable segments, the $136 million gain on sale of MTIA (recorded in the fourth quarter of 2022) and an increase in trust income of $96 million (inclusive of People’s United-related revenues of $35 million). The various components of the “All Other” category resulted in a net loss of $459 million in 2020. The improvement in 2021 resulted from a $795 million decrease in the provision for credit losses, the favorable impact from the Company’s allocation methodologies for internal transfers for funding charges and credits associated with earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities of the Company’s reportable segments, and increased trust income. Those favorable factors were partially offset by higher professional services expenses and increased personnel-related costs. Recent Accounting Developments A discussion of recent accounting developments is included in note 27 of Notes to Financial Statements. Forward-Looking Statements Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and other sections of this annual report contain forward-looking statements regarding the Company within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any statement that does not describe historical or current facts is a forward-looking statement, including statements based on current expectations, estimates and projections about the Company’s business, management’s beliefs and assumptions made by management. 107 Statements regarding the potential effects of events or factors specific to the Company and/or the financial industry as a whole, as well as national and global events generally, including economic conditions, on the Company’s business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations may constitute forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to the risk that the actual effects may differ, possibly materially, from what is reflected in those forward-looking statements due to factors and future developments that are uncertain, unpredictable and in many cases beyond the Company’s control. Statements regarding expectations or predictions relating to the Company's acquisition of People's United are also forward-looking statements, including statements regarding expected financial results, prospects, targets, goals and outlook. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “target,” “estimate,” “continue,” “positions,” “prospects” or “potential,” by future conditional verbs such as “will,” “would,” “should,” “could,” or “may,” or by variations of such words or by similar expressions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions (“Future Factors”) which are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in such forward-looking statements. Future Factors include risks, predictions and uncertainties relating to: the impact of the People's United transaction; economic conditions, including inflation and market volatility; the impact of international conflicts and other events; the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic; changes in interest rates, spreads on earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and interest rate sensitivity; prepayment speeds, loan originations, credit losses and market values on loans, collateral securing loans, and other assets; sources of liquidity; common shares outstanding; common stock price volatility; fair value of and number of stock-based compensation awards to be issued in future periods; the impact of changes in market values on trust-related revenues; legislation and/or regulations affecting the financial services industry, or M&T and its subsidiaries individually or collectively, including tax policy; regulatory supervision and oversight, including monetary policy and capital requirements; governmental and public policy changes; the outcome of pending and future litigation and governmental proceedings, including tax-related examinations and other matters; changes in accounting policies or procedures as may be required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, regulatory agencies or legislation; increasing price, product and service competition by competitors, including new entrants; rapid technological developments and changes; the ability to continue to introduce competitive new products and services on a timely, cost-effective basis; the mix of products and services; containing costs and expenses; protection and validity of intellectual property rights; reliance on large customers; technological, implementation and cost/financial risks in large, multi-year contracts; continued availability of financing; financial resources in the amounts, at the times and on the terms required to support M&T and its subsidiaries' future businesses; and material differences in the actual financial results of merger, acquisition and investment activities compared with M&T's initial expectations, including the full realization of anticipated cost savings and revenue enhancements. Further details regarding these Future Factors and risks and uncertainties related to the Company are described in the "Risk Factors" section of this annual report. These are representative of the Future Factors that could affect the outcome of the forward-looking statements. In addition, such statements could be affected by general industry and market conditions and growth rates, general economic and political conditions, either nationally or in the states in which M&T and its subsidiaries do business, including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations, changes and trends in the securities markets, and other Future Factors. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and the Company assumes no duty to update forward-looking statements. 108 Table 22 QUARTERLY TRENDS (a) Excludes amortization and balances related to goodwill and core deposit and other intangible assets and merger-related expenses which, except in the calculation of the efficiency ratio, are net of applicable income tax effects. A reconciliation of net income and net operating income appears in Table 23. (b) Excludes impact of merger-related expenses and net securities transactions. (c) The difference between total assets and total tangible assets, and common shareholders’ equity and tangible common shareholders’ equity, represents goodwill, core deposit and other intangible assets, net of applicable deferred tax balances. A reconciliation of such balances appears in Table 23. 109 Table 23 RECONCILIATION OF QUARTERLY GAAP TO NON-GAAP MEASURES (a) After any related tax effect. 110