********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Risk Factors Summary Risks Relating to the Merger with People’s United Risks Relating to COVID-19 Pandemic Market Risk Risks Relating to Compliance and the Regulatory Environment 27 Credit Risk Liquidity Risk Strategic Risk Operational Risk Business Risk 28 Risk Factors M&T and its subsidiaries face a number of potential risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. As a financial institution, certain risk elements are inherent in the ordinary course of the Company’s business activities and adverse experience with those risks could have a material impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as on the values of the Company’s financial instruments and M&T’s securities, including its common stock. The following risk factors set forth some of the risks that could materially and adversely impact the Company, although there may be additional risks that are not presently material or known that may adversely affect the Company. These risk factors include risks relating to M&T’s acquisition of People’s United pursuant to an agreement and plan of merger, dated February 21, 2021, by and among M&T, Bridge Merger Corp., a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of M&T, and People’s United (the “merger agreement” and, such transaction, the “merger”). Risks Related to the Merger with People’s United M&T is expected to incur significant costs related to the merger and integration. M&T has incurred and expects to incur significant, non-recurring costs in connection with negotiating the merger agreement and closing the merger. In addition, M&T will incur integration costs following the completion of the merger as M&T integrates the People’s United business, including facilities and systems consolidation costs and employment-related costs. There can be no assurances that the expected benefits and efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses will be realized to offset these transaction and integration costs over time. M&T may also incur additional costs to maintain employee morale and to retain key employees. M&T will also incur significant legal, financial advisory, accounting, banking and consulting fees, fees relating to regulatory filings and notices, SEC filing fees, printing and mailing fees and other costs associated with the merger. Some of these costs are payable regardless of whether the merger is completed. Combining M&T and People’s United may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than expected, and M&T may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger. The success of the merger will depend, in part, on the ability to realize the anticipated cost savings from combining the businesses of M&T and People’s United. To realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from the merger M&T and People’s United must integrate and combine their businesses in a manner that permits cost savings to be realized, without adversely affecting revenues and future growth. If M&T and People’s United are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. In addition, the actual cost savings of the merger could be less than anticipated, and integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses. An inability to realize the full extent of the anticipated benefits of the merger and the other transactions contemplated by the merger agreement, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect upon the revenues, levels of expenses and operating results of M&T following the completion of the merger, which may adversely affect the value of M&T’s common stock following the completion of the merger. M&T and People’s United have operated and, until the completion of the merger, must continue to operate, independently. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the companies’ abilities to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the merger. Integration efforts between the two companies may also divert 29 management attention and resources. These integration matters could have an adverse effect on M&T during this transition period and for an undetermined period after completion of the merger. M&T may be unable to retain M&T and/or People’s United personnel successfully. The success of the merger will depend in part on M&T’s ability to retain the talents and dedication of key employees currently employed by M&T and People’s United. It is possible that these employees may decide not to remain with M&T or People’s United, as applicable, while the merger is pending or with M&T after the merger is completed. If M&T and People’s United are unable to retain key employees, including management, who are critical to the successful integration and future operations of the companies, M&T and People’s United could face disruptions in their operations, loss of existing customers, loss of key information, expertise or know-how and unanticipated additional recruitment costs. In addition, following the merger, if key employees terminate their employment, M&T’s business activities may be adversely affected, and management’s attention may be diverted from successfully integrating M&T and People’s United to hiring suitable replacements, all of which may cause M&T’s business to suffer. In addition, M&T and People’s United may not be able to locate or retain suitable replacements for any key employees who leave either company. The COVID-19 pandemic may delay and adversely affect the completion of the merger . The COVID-19 pandemic has created economic and financial disruptions that have adversely affected, and are likely to continue to adversely affect, the business, financial condition, liquidity, capital and results of operations of M&T and People’s United. If the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic cause a continued or extended decline in the economic environment and the financial results of M&T or People’s United, or the business operations of M&T or People’s United are further disrupted as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, efforts to complete the merger and integrate the businesses of M&T and People’s United may also be delayed and adversely affected. Additional time may be required to obtain the requisite regulatory approval, and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve Board”) may impose additional requirements on M&T or People’s United that must be satisfied prior to completion of the merger, which could delay and adversely affect the completion of the merger. Regulatory approval from the Federal Reserve Board may not be received, may take longer than expected, or may impose conditions that are not presently anticipated or that could have an adverse effect on M&T following the merger. Before the merger and the other transactions contemplated by the merger agreement may be completed, certain regulatory approvals must be obtained. Approvals from the New York State Department of Financial Services and the State of Connecticut Department of Banking, among other regulatory approvals, have been received but the transaction remains subject to approval from the Federal Reserve Board. That approval could be delayed or not obtained at all, including due to: an adverse development in either party’s regulatory standing or in any other factors considered by regulators when granting such approval, including factors not known at the present time and factors that may arise in the future; governmental, political or community group inquiries, investigations or opposition; or changes in legislation or the political environment generally. The Federal Reserve Board has stated that if material weaknesses are identified by examiners before a banking organization applies to engage in expansionary activity, the Federal Reserve Board will expect the banking organization to resolve all such weaknesses before applying for such expansionary activity. The Federal Reserve Board has also stated that if issues arise during the processing of an application for expansionary activity, it will expect the applicant banking organization to withdraw its application pending resolution of any supervisory concerns. 30 Any Federal Reserve Board approval, if granted, may impose terms and conditions, limitations, obligations or costs, or place restrictions on the conduct of M&T’s business or require changes to the terms of the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement. There can be no assurance that the regulator will not impose any such conditions, limitations, obligations or restrictions and that such conditions, limitations, obligations or restrictions will not have the effect of delaying the completion of any of the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement, imposing additional material costs on or materially limiting the revenues of M&T following the merger or otherwise reduce the anticipated benefits of the merger if the merger were consummated successfully within the expected timeframe. In addition, there can be no assurance that any such conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not result in the delay or abandonment of the merger. Additionally, the completion of the merger is conditioned on the absence of certain orders, injunctions or decrees by any court or regulatory agency of competent jurisdiction that would prohibit or make illegal the completion of any of the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement. In addition, despite the parties’ commitments to use their reasonable best efforts to comply with conditions imposed by regulators, under the terms of the merger agreement, M&T will not be required, and People’s United will not be permitted without M&T’s prior written consent, to take actions or agree to conditions in connection with obtaining the foregoing permits, consents, approvals and authorizations of governmental entities that would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on M&T and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, after giving effect to the merger. Failure to complete the merger could negatively impact M&T. If the merger is not completed for any reason, there may be various adverse consequences and M&T may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and from its customers and employees. For example, M&T’s business may have been impacted adversely by the failure to pursue other beneficial opportunities due to the focus of management on the merger, without realizing any of the anticipated benefits of completing the merger. Additionally, if the merger agreement is terminated, the market price of M&T common stock could decline to the extent that the current market price of M&T common stock reflects a market assumption that the merger will be beneficial to M&T and will be completed. M&T could be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the merger or to proceedings commenced against M&T to perform its obligations under the merger agreement. If the merger agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, M&T may be required to pay a termination fee of $280 million to People’s United. Additionally, M&T has incurred and will incur substantial expenses in connection with the negotiation and completion of the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement, as well as the costs and expenses of preparing, filing, printing and mailing the joint proxy statement/prospectus for the merger, and all filing and other fees paid in connection with the merger. If the merger is not completed, M&T would have incurred these expenses without realizing the expected benefits of the merger. M&T is subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the merger is pending. Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on M&T. These uncertainties may impair M&T’s ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger is completed, and could cause customers and others that deal with M&T to seek to change existing business relationships with M&T. In addition, subject to certain exceptions, M&T has agreed to refrain from taking certain actions that may adversely affect its ability to consummate the merger on a timely basis without People’s United’s consent. These restrictions may prevent M&T from pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the merger. 31 Litigation related to the merger has been filed against People’s United, the People’s United board of directors and M&T, and additional litigation may be filed against People’s United, the People’s United board of directors, M&T and the M&T board of directors in the future, which could prevent or delay the completion of the merger, result in the payment of damages or otherwise negatively impact the business and operations of M&T. Litigation related to the merger has been filed against People’s United, the People’s United board of directors and M&T, and additional litigation may be filed against People’s United, the People’s United board of directors, M&T and the M&T board of directors in the future. Among other remedies, litigation that has been filed seeks, and additional litigation by shareholders of M&T and/or stockholders of People’s United in the future may seek damages and/or to enjoin the merger or the other transactions contemplated by the merger agreement. The outcome of any litigation is uncertain. If any plaintiff were successful in obtaining an injunction prohibiting M&T or People’s United from completing the merger or any other transactions contemplated by the merger agreement, then such injunction may delay or prevent the effectiveness of the merger and could result in significant costs to M&T, including costs in connection with the defense or settlement of any shareholder lawsuits filed in connection with the merger. Further, such lawsuits and the defense or settlement of any such lawsuits may have an adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of M&T. Risks Relating to COVID-19 Pandemic M&T’s business, financial condition, capital and results of operations have been, and will likely continue to be, adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has caused severe disruption to the U.S. and global economy and created significant volatility in the financial markets.  The duration of this disruption and impact cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. The pandemic has created economic and financial disruptions that have adversely affected, and are likely to continue to adversely affect, the Company’s business, financial condition, capital and results of operations. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to negatively affect the Company’s business, financial condition, capital and results of operations will depend on future developments, including the scope and duration of the pandemic, the emergence of new variants, the effectiveness and distribution of vaccines and other public health measures, the continued effectiveness of M&T’s business continuity plans, the direct and indirect impact of the pandemic on the Company’s employees, customers, clients, counterparties, vendors, service providers and other market participants, and actions taken by governmental authorities and other third parties in response to the pandemic, all of which are highly uncertain and cannot be reasonably predicted. Although economic and market conditions have generally improved during 2021, the COVID-19 pandemic, including associated variants, has, at times, resulted in adverse economic and market conditions.  Depending on the duration and severity of the pandemic on general economic and market conditions, consumer and corporate spending and investment and borrowing patterns, there is a risk that adverse conditions could occur, including the following: 32 The pandemic is likely to continue to contribute to these risks and impacts and could affect geographic areas in which the Company operates differently as further noted herein under “Market Risk” and “Credit Risk.” As a result, the Company’s credit, liquidity, market, operational and other risks are generally expected to remain elevated until the pandemic subsides. In addition, the Company’s business operations continue to be at risk of adverse disruption if significant portions of the Company’s workforce are unable to work effectively, including because of illness, quarantines, government actions, failures in systems or technology that disrupt remote work arrangements or other effects of the pandemic, or if the Company is unable to keep branches or offices open, including because of risk of infection. The Company faces similar risks if its counterparties, vendors and other service providers are unable to maintain operations due to pandemic-related disruptions. The pandemic may also delay or adversely affect M&T’s efforts to complete the merger and integrate the businesses of the Company and People’s United, if the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic cause a continued or extended decline in the economic environment and the financial results of M&T or People’s United or cause further disruption to the business operations of the Company or People’s United. Governmental authorities have taken unprecedented measures to provide economic assistance to individual households and businesses, stabilize the markets and support economic growth. The success of those measures is not yet entirely known and those measures, or additional measures that may be introduced, may not be sufficient to fully mitigate the negative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, some measures, such as a suspension of mortgage and other loan payments and foreclosures, may have a negative impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, liquidity, capital and results of operations. If such measures are not effective in mitigating the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Company’s borrowers, the Company may also experience higher rates of default and increased credit losses in future periods. The Company also faces an increased risk of litigation and governmental and regulatory scrutiny as a result of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on market and economic conditions and actions governmental authorities take in response to those conditions. Furthermore, various government programs such as the Paycheck Protection Program are complex and the Company’s participation may lead to litigation and governmental, regulatory and third party scrutiny, negative publicity and damage to its reputation. 33 The length of the pandemic and the efficacy of the measures being put in place to address it are unknown. It is unknown when there will be a return to normal business activity and a subsiding of the economic stress associated with the pandemic. Prolonged continuation of the pandemic could worsen these risks and impacts. Until the pandemic subsides, the Company may experience reduced revenues in certain of its fee-related businesses and increased customer and client defaults, including defaults in unsecured loans. Even after the pandemic subsides, the U.S. economy may experience a prolonged economic slowdown or recession, and M&T anticipates the Company’s businesses would be materially and adversely affected by a prolonged economic slowdown or recession. To the extent the pandemic adversely affects the Company’s business, financial condition, liquidity, capital or results of operations, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this “Risk Factors” section and M&T’s other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company’s business and operations following the completion of the merger with People’s United. Market Risk Weakness in the economy has adversely affected the Company in the past and may adversely affect the Company in the future. Poor business and economic conditions in general or specifically in markets served by the Company could have adverse effects on the Company’s business including: Volatility and uncertainty related to inflation and the effects of inflation, which may lead to increased costs for businesses and consumers and potentially contribute to poor business and economic conditions generally, may also enhance or contribute to some of the risks discussed herein. For example, higher inflation, or volatility and uncertainty related to inflation, could reduce demand for the Company’s products, adversely affect the creditworthiness of the Company’s borrowers or result in lower values for the Company’s investment securities and other interest-earning assets. The Company’s business and financial performance is impacted significantly by market interest rates and movements in those rates. The monetary, tax and other policies of governmental agencies, including the Federal Reserve, have a significant impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance over which the Company has no control and which the Company may not be able to anticipate adequately. 34 As a result of the high percentage of the Company’s assets and liabilities that are in the form of interest-bearing or interest-related instruments, changes in interest rates, including in the shape of the yield curve or in spreads between different market interest rates, as well as changes linked to inflation, can have a material effect on the Company’s business and profitability and the value of the Company’s assets and liabilities. For example, changes in interest rates or interest rate spreads may: The monetary, tax and other policies of the government and its agencies, including the Federal Reserve, have a significant impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance. These governmental policies can thus affect the activities and results of operations of banking organizations such as the Company. An important function of the Federal Reserve is to regulate the national supply of bank credit and certain interest rates. The actions of the Federal Reserve influence the rates of interest that the Company charges on loans and that the Company pays on borrowings and interest-bearing deposits and can also affect the value of the Company’s on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments. Also, due to the impact on rates for short-term funding, the Federal Reserve’s policies influence, to a significant extent, the Company’s cost of such funding. In addition, the Company is routinely subject to examinations from various governmental taxing authorities. Such examinations may result in challenges to the tax return treatment applied by the Company to specific transactions. Management believes that the assumptions and judgment used to record tax-related assets or liabilities have been appropriate. Should tax laws change or the tax authorities determine that management’s assumptions were inappropriate, the result and adjustments required could have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations. M&T cannot predict the nature or timing of future changes in monetary, tax and other policies or the effect that they may have on the Company’s business activities, financial condition and results of operations. The discontinuation of LIBOR as a permissible rate index in new contracts after 2021, the formal announcement of LIBOR’s cessation date (June 30, 2023), and ongoing uncertainty related to the emergence of one or more alternative benchmark indices to replace LIBOR, could adversely impact the Company’s business and results of operations. The Company’s floating-rate funding, certain hedging transactions and a significant portion of the  Company’s products, such as floating-rate loans and mortgages, determine the applicable interest rate or payment amount by reference to a benchmark rate, such as the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”), or to an alternative index, currency, basket or other financial metric. 35 In July 2017, the Chief Executive of the Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”), which regulates LIBOR, announced that the FCA intended to stop persuading or compelling its panel banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021. This announcement created market uncertainty as to whether and to what extent panel banks would continue to provide submissions for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021 and as to the continued existence of LIBOR after 2021. The uncertainty lessened in November 2020, when (i) public statements issued by the ICE Benchmark Administration (“IBA”), the administrator of LIBOR, and the FCA, announced a proposal to, among other things, extend the publication of the most commonly utilized tenors of USD LIBOR until June 30, 2023, and (ii) a joint-statement of the federal bank regulators, including the Federal Reserve, indicated support for the IBA proposal and encouraged banks to (a) transition away from USD LIBOR as soon as practicable, (b) cease (with limited exceptions) entering into new contracts that use USD LIBOR as a reference rate as soon as practicable and no later than December 31, 2021, and (c) for new contracts entered into before December 31, 2021, either utilize a reference rate other than USD LIBOR or include robust fallback language that includes a clearly defined alternative reference rate after USD LIBOR’s discontinuation, noting that failure to do so would create safety and soundness risks. On March 5, 2021, public statements by the FCA and IBA confirmed the future cessation (or non-representativeness) of all USD LIBOR tenors, and specifically, the June 30, 2023 cessation date for the most commonly utilized USD LIBOR tenors, after which USD LIBOR will either no longer exist or no longer be representative of the underlying market it is intended to measure. Following the initial FCA announcement in 2017, regulators and various financial industry groups sponsored or formed committees (e.g., the Federal Reserve-sponsored Alternative Reference Rates Committee (“AARC”)) to, among other things, facilitate the identification of an alternative benchmark index to replace LIBOR, and publish recommended practices for transitioning the market away from LIBOR, including (i) the utilization of recommended fallback language for LIBOR-linked financial instruments, and (ii) development of alternative pricing methodologies for recommended alternative benchmarks such as the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”). In 2020, the ARRC finalized and issued recommendations for the use of so-called “hardwired” LIBOR fallback language that, when incorporated into existing LIBOR-based loan documents, provides for, upon LIBOR’s permanent cessation (or an announcement from LIBOR’s administrator or certain governmental authorities that LIBOR is no longer representative of the underlying market), the replacement of LIBOR with SOFR as the benchmark index, with an appropriate spread adjustment that is representative of the historical difference between LIBOR and SOFR, which when added to SOFR would be intended to facilitate a value-neutral transition. In April 2021, M&T adopted hardwired fallback language modeled after the ARRC recommendations for use in all new LIBOR loans. SOFR is a measure of the cost of borrowing cash overnight, collateralized by U.S. Treasury securities, and is based on directly observable U.S. Treasury-based repurchase transactions.  The fact that SOFR is a secured overnight rate and considered a “risk free” rate, while LIBOR is an unsecured term rate that factors in credit risk, means that SOFR may perform differently than LIBOR, and those differences may be material, particularly in times of economic stress, negatively impacting the Company’s profitability. Over the past few years, the AARC’s recommendations and proposals have evolved, and the Company has continued to monitor both ARRC and general market developments.  While the ARRC has maintained its recommendation that SOFR is the preferred replacement for LIBOR, some industry participants are questioning whether a “risk free” SOFR rate is an ideal replacement for LIBOR in the commercial lending market and suggesting that a credit-sensitive component or alternative be considered and developed. One such credit sensitive alternative is the Bloomberg Short-Term Bank Yield Index (BSBY), which gained some increased attention and use in the business loan market in the latter half of 2021. Whether BSBY or other alternatives develop and gain any significant traction in the market are unknown and unpredictable at this time, and this adds 36 further uncertainty to the LIBOR transition process, both with respect to amending existing LIBOR contracts and pricing new contracts based on SOFR or an alternative reference rate going forward. LIBOR cessation is also impacting the derivatives market.  In October 2020, The International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA), published the IBOR Fallbacks Supplement (Supplement) and IBOR Fallbacks Protocol (Protocol).  The Supplement, which became effective on January 25, 2021, amends existing standard definitions for interest rate derivatives to incorporate robust fallbacks to the SOFR benchmark for derivatives linked to LIBOR. The Protocol enables market participants to incorporate these revisions into their legacy non-cleared derivatives trades with other counterparties that choose to adhere to the Protocol. The fallbacks apply following a permanent cessation of LIBOR or following a determination by the FCA that LIBOR is no longer representative of the underlying market. M&T and M&T Bank adhered to the Protocol on November 5, 2020, and the Company is in the process of remediating its interest rate swap hedging transactions with its end user customers, i.e., borrowers who have hedged their interest rate payment obligations. If the Company is not able to agree to appropriate LIBOR fallbacks with these customers, there will be uncertainty as to how to value and effect the Company’s rights and obligations under legacy derivatives contracts.  With respect to the Company’s cleared interest rate derivatives that reference LIBOR, both the CME and LCH clearinghouses have adopted the same relevant SOFR benchmark fallbacks of the Supplement and Protocol which also became effective on January 25, 2021. The Company has outstanding issuances, or acts as an administrative ( or calculation) agent or in other capacities, across various maturities of securities referencing LIBOR in which the underlying contracts do not contemplate cessation or contemplate cessation but do so in a manner that may create other risks (“Tough Legacy Contracts”).  Some of these contracts provide for selecting replacement rates in a manner that presents significant challenges or that gives the Company or another party discretion to select a rate or provide for determination of a reference rate.  In April 2021, the New York State legislature passed Senate Bill 297B/Assembly Bill 164B which allows certain New York State law governed Tough Legacy Contracts to transition to SOFR, as the statutory benchmark replacement rate, by operation of law. Similarly, the United States Congress is currently considering the Adjustable Interest Rate (LIBOR) Act of 2021 (H.R. 4616) which, if enacted, would have an analogous effect on the transition of Tough Legacy Contracts, but would expand the applicability beyond the State of New York to contracts governed by the laws of any state, the District of Columbia, or any territory or possession of the United States. Notwithstanding the availability or potential availability of statutory frameworks to address Tough Legacy Contracts, there will likely be continued uncertainty surrounding the transition as these frameworks have not been tested and their effectiveness and ultimate impact is not certain. The discontinuation of LIBOR as a benchmark could result in changes to the Company’s risk exposures (for example, if the anticipated discontinuation of LIBOR adversely affects the availability or cost of floating-rate funding and, therefore, the Company’s exposure to fluctuations in interest rates) or otherwise result in losses on a product or having to pay more or receive less on securities that the Company has issued or owns. A substantial portion of the Company’s on- and off-balance sheet financial instruments (many of which have terms that extend beyond 2023) are indexed to LIBOR, including interest rate swap agreements and other contracts used for hedging and trading account purposes, loans to commercial customers and consumers (including mortgage loans and other loans), and long-term borrowings. Uncertainty as to the impact of the discontinuation of LIBOR, the replacement of LIBOR with an alternative index, and the operational feasibility of amending existing contracts referencing LIBOR to include hardwired LIBOR fallback language referencing a new replacement index could result in pricing volatility, loss of market share in certain products, adverse tax or accounting impacts, and compliance, legal and operational costs and risks. The market’s transition from LIBOR to an alternative reference rate will be complex and unpredictable, giving rise to a variety of risks, including operational risks, risks of value transfer 37 between contract parties, the potential for customer disputes and litigation, as well as regulatory scrutiny, as the most recent regulatory announcements indicate that there will be increased regulatory focus on LIBOR transition in 2022 and beyond. The Company established an enterprise-wide LIBOR transition program in 2019, which now includes a LIBOR Transition Office with senior management level leadership and dedicated full-time employee staffing.  An impact assessment has been completed to identify on- and off-balance sheet exposures, systems, processes, models, customers, and employees affected by the discontinuation of LIBOR. The Company continues to develop and execute plans to transition products and contracts associated with LIBOR to alternative reference rates. The Company’s business and performance is vulnerable to the impact of volatility in debt and equity markets. As most of the Company’s assets and liabilities are financial in nature, the Company’s performance is sensitive to the performance of the financial markets. Turmoil and volatility in U.S. and global financial markets can be a major contributory factor to overall weak economic conditions, leading to some of the risks discussed herein, including the impaired ability of borrowers and other counterparties to meet obligations to the Company. Financial market volatility may: Volatility in the markets for real estate and other assets commonly securing financial products has been and may continue to be a significant contributor to overall volatility in financial markets. In addition, unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by the imposition of tariffs or other limitations on international trade and travel, as well as elevated inflation, which can result in market volatility, negatively impact client activity, and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s regional concentrations expose it to adverse economic conditions in its primary retail banking office footprint. The Company’s core banking business is largely concentrated within the Company’s retail banking office network footprint, located principally in New York, Maryland, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Connecticut, Virginia, West Virginia and the District of Columbia. Therefore, the Company is, or in the future may be, particularly vulnerable to adverse changes in economic conditions in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions. The credit quality of the Company’s borrowers may deteriorate for a number of reasons that are outside the Company’s control, including as a result of prevailing economic and market conditions and asset valuations. The trends and risks affecting borrower credit quality, particularly in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions, have caused, and in the future may cause, the Company to experience impairment charges, which are drastic reductions 38 in the recoverable value of an asset, increased purchase demands, wherein customers make withdrawals with minimum notice, higher costs (e.g., servicing, foreclosure, property maintenance), additional write-downs and losses and a potential impact to engage in lending transactions based on a reduction of customer deposits, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Compliance and the Regulatory Environment The Company is subject to extensive government regulation and supervision and this regulatory environment can be and has been significantly impacted by financial regulatory reform initiatives. The Company is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect consumers, depositors and the financial system as a whole, not securities holders, including the holders of common stock. These regulations and supervisory guidance affect the Company’s sale and lending practices, capital structure, capital distributions and dividend policy, investment practices, growth and expansionary activity, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies, or to meet supervisory expectations, could result in civil or criminal penalties, including monetary penalties, the loss of FDIC insurance, the revocation of a banking charter, other sanctions by regulatory agencies, and/or reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In this regard, government authorities, including the bank regulatory agencies, can pursue aggressive enforcement actions with respect to compliance and other legal matters involving financial activities, which heightens the risks associated with actual and perceived compliance failures and may also adversely affect the Company’s ability to enter into certain transactions or engage in certain activities, or obtain necessary regulatory approvals in connection therewith. In general, the amounts paid by financial institutions in settlement of proceedings or investigations have increased substantially and are likely to remain elevated. In some cases, governmental authorities have required criminal pleas or admissions of wrongdoing as part of such settlements, which could have significant collateral consequences for a financial institution, including loss of customers, restrictions on the ability to access the capital markets, and the inability to operate certain businesses or offer certain products for a period of time. In addition, enforcement matters could impact the Company’s supervisory and CRA ratings, which may in turn restrict or limit the Company’s activities.  A prior enforcement action also increases the risk that regulators and governmental authorities pursue formal enforcement actions in connection with the resolution of an inquiry or investigation, even if unrelated to the prior enforcement action. Any new regulatory requirements, changes to existing requirements, or changes to interpretations of requirements could require changes to the Company’s businesses, result in increased compliance costs and affect the profitability of such businesses. Additionally, such activity could affect the behaviors of third parties with which the Company deals in the ordinary course of business, such as rating agencies, insurance companies and investors. Heightened regulatory scrutiny, requirements or expectations could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways, and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. There have been significant revisions to the laws and regulations applicable to the Company that have been enacted or proposed in recent years, and additional proposed changes are anticipated. Many of these and other rules to implement the changes have yet to be finalized, and the final timing, scope and impact of these changes to the regulatory framework applicable to financial institutions remain uncertain. For more information on the regulations to which the Company is subject and recent initiatives to reform financial institution regulation, see Part I, Item 1 — Business in this report. 39 M&T may be subject to more stringent capital and liquidity requirements. Bank holding companies, including M&T, are subject to capital and liquidity requirements and standards imposed as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act (as amended by EGRRCPA) and the U.S. Basel III-based capital rules. For additional information, see “Capital Requirements” under Part I, Item 1 —  Business. Regulators have and may, from time to time, implement changes to these regulatory capital adequacy and liquidity requirements. If the Company fails to meet these minimum capital adequacy and liquidity requirements and other regulatory requirements, its business activities, including lending, and its ability to expand, either organically or through acquisitions, could be limited. It could also result in M&T being required to take steps to increase its regulatory capital that may be dilutive to shareholders or limit its ability to pay dividends or otherwise return capital to shareholders, or sell or refrain from acquiring assets. In addition, the liquidity-related provisions of the Federal Reserve’s liquidity-related enhanced prudential supervision requirements may reduce the Company’s ability to invest in other longer-term assets even if deemed more desirable from a balance sheet management perspective, which could adversely affect its net interest income and net interest margin. The federal bank regulators have not yet released a proposal to implement the significant revisions of the Basel capital framework announced by the Basel Committee in December 2017, and the impact on the Company of these revisions will depend on the manner in which they are implemented in the U.S. with respect to firms such as M&T. M&T’s ability to return capital to shareholders and to pay dividends on common stock may be adversely affected by market and other factors outside of its control and will depend, in part, on the results of supervisory stress tests administered by the Federal Reserve. Any decision by M&T to return capital to shareholders, whether through a common stock dividend or a common stock share repurchase program, requires the approval of M&T’s Board of Directors and must comply with applicable capital regulations, including the maintenance of capital ratios exceeding specified minimum levels and applicable buffers. For bank holding companies designated as Category IV institutions under the Tailoring Rules, including M&T, the Federal Reserve conducts biennial supervisory stress tests required under the Dodd-Frank Act whereby the BHC’s financial position is tested under assumed severely adverse economic conditions. The results of those stress tests are incorporated in the determination of M&T’s Stress Capital Buffer.  As a general matter, if M&T is unable to maintain capital in excess of regulatory minimum levels inclusive of its Stress Capital Buffer, it would be subject to limitations on its ability to make capital distributions, including paying dividends and repurchasing stock. In August 2021, the Federal Reserve Board provided M&T with a Stress Capital Buffer of 2.5%, representing the floor under the regulatory capital rules, which became applicable to M&T on October 1, 2021.  The results of future supervisory stress tests are uncertain, and a more severe outcome may result in a higher Stress Capital Buffer and an increase in M&T’s effective capital requirements.  An increased Stress Capital Buffer may restrict M&T’s ability to return capital to shareholders, including through paying dividends, entering into acquisitions or repurchasing its common stock, which in turn could negatively impact market and investor perceptions of M&T. In addition, during 2020 and the first half of 2021, the Federal Reserve implemented measures requiring all large bank holding companies to preserve capital through limitations on share repurchase programs and common stock dividends. While these restrictions are no longer applicable, the Federal Reserve may implement similar restrictions in the future, including in response to adverse or uncertain economic conditions. Also, if, as in June 2020, the Company is required to resubmit its capital plan, the Company generally may not make capital distributions, such as share repurchases or dividends, without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve. 40 If an orderly liquidation of a systemically important BHC or non-bank financial company were triggered, M&T could face assessments for the Orderly Liquidation Fund (“OLF”). The Dodd-Frank Act created a mechanism, the OLF, for liquidation of systemically important bank holding companies and non-bank financial companies. The OLF is administered by the FDIC and is based on the FDIC’s bank resolution model. The Secretary of the U.S. Treasury may trigger a liquidation under this authority after consultation with the President of the U.S. and after receiving a recommendation from the boards of the FDIC and the Federal Reserve upon a two-thirds vote. Liquidation proceedings will be funded by the OLF, which will borrow from the U.S. Treasury and impose risk-based assessments on covered financial companies. Risk-based assessments would be first made on entities that received more in the resolution than they would have received in the liquidation to the extent of such excess, and second, if necessary, on, among others, bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as M&T. Any such assessments may adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Credit Risk Deteriorating credit quality could adversely impact the Company. As a lender, the Company is exposed to the risk that customers will be unable to repay their loans and other obligations in accordance with the terms of the relevant agreements, and that any collateral securing the loans and obligations may be insufficient to assure full repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and entering into other financial arrangements. Factors that influence the Company’s credit loss experience include overall economic conditions affecting businesses and consumers, generally, but also residential and commercial real estate valuations, in particular, given the size of the Company’s real estate loan portfolios. Factors that can influence the Company’s credit loss experience include: (i) the impact of residential real estate values on loans to residential real estate builders and developers and other loans secured by residential real estate; (ii) the concentrations of commercial real estate loans in the Company’s loan portfolio, including in the New York City area; (iii) the amount of commercial and industrial loans to businesses in areas of New York State outside of the New York City area and in central Pennsylvania that have historically experienced less economic growth and vitality than many other regions of the country; (iv) the repayment performance associated with first and second lien loans secured by residential real estate; and (v) the size of the Company’s portfolio of loans to individual consumers, which historically have experienced higher net charge-offs as a percentage of loans outstanding than loans to other types of borrowers. The Company’s credit risk and the performance of its lending portfolios may be affected by concentration in an industry, geography or asset type. Also, as described further in the risk factor above, the Company’s credit risks have been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and are generally expected to remain elevated until the pandemic subsides. The pandemic has created economic and financial disruptions that have adversely affected, and are likely to continue to adversely affect, customers, including businesses in the hotel and travel industry. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic and to support its customers, the Company offered (primarily in 2020, but also in 2021) payment deferrals and other expanded assistance to businesses and consumers, and committed in certain states in which it operates to suspend residential mortgage payments and foreclosure sales for financially impacted customers for certain periods of time. A significant number of the Company’s customers sought to suspend their mortgage payments under these programs. Suspensions of mortgage payments and foreclosures and reduced pricing under these programs may adversely affect the Company’s revenue and results of operations. In addition, if these programs are not effective in mitigating the financial consequences of COVID-19 on customers, or if customers are unable to pay their loans after these programs expire, the Company may experience 41 higher rates of default, increased credit losses and additional increases to the allowance for credit losses in future periods. Commercial real estate valuations can be highly subjective as they are based upon many assumptions. Such valuations can be significantly affected over relatively short periods of time by changes in business climate, economic conditions, interest rates and, in many cases, the results of operations of businesses and other occupants of the real property.  Emerging and evolving factors such as the shift to work-from-home arrangements, changing consumer preferences (including for online shopping), COVID-19-related restrictions and resulting changes in occupancy rates as a result of these and other trends can also impact such valuations over relatively short periods.  Similarly, residential real estate valuations can be impacted by housing trends, the availability of financing at reasonable interest rates, governmental policy regarding housing and housing finance, and general economic conditions affecting consumers, including as impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, as described above. The Company maintains an allowance for credit losses which represents, in management’s judgment, the amount of losses expected in the loan and lease portfolio. The allowance is determined by management’s evaluation of the loan and lease portfolio based on such factors as the differing economic risks associated with each loan category, the current financial condition of specific borrowers, the economic environment in which borrowers operate, the level of delinquent loans, the value of any collateral and, where applicable, the existence of any guarantees or indemnifications. Management believes that the allowance for credit losses as of December 31, 2021 appropriately reflects expected credit losses in the loan and lease portfolio. However, there is no assurance that the allowance is sufficient to cover all credit losses that may occur. The Company may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, the Company’s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit due to or derivative exposure of the Company. Any resulting losses could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Liquidity Risk The Company must maintain adequate sources of funding and liquidity. The Company must maintain adequate funding sources in the normal course of business to support its operations and fund outstanding liabilities, as well as meet regulatory requirements and supervisory expectations. The Company primarily relies on deposits to be a low cost and stable source of funding for the loans it makes and the operations of its business. Core customer deposits, which include noninterest-bearing deposits, interest-bearing transaction accounts, savings deposits and time deposits of $250,000 or less, have historically provided the Company with a sizeable source of relatively stable and low-cost funds. In addition to customer deposits, sources of liquidity include borrowings from securities dealers, various Federal Home Loan Banks and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, as well as the debt and equity capital markets. The Company’s liquidity and ability to fund and operate the business could be materially adversely affected by a variety of conditions and factors, including financial and credit market disruptions and volatility or a lack of market or customer confidence in financial markets in general, 42 which may result in a loss of customer deposits or outflows of cash or collateral and/or ability to access capital markets on favorable terms. Negative news about the Company or the financial services industry generally may reduce market or customer confidence in the Company, which could in turn materially adversely affect the Company’s liquidity and funding. Such reputational damage may result in the loss of customer deposits, the inability to sell or securitize loans or other assets, and downgrades in one or more of the Company’s credit ratings, and may also negatively affect the Company’s ability to access the capital markets. A downgrade in the Company’s credit ratings, which could result from general industry-wide or regulatory factors not solely related to the Company, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to borrow funds, including by raising the cost of borrowings substantially, and could cause creditors and business counterparties to raise collateral requirements or take other actions that could adversely affect M&T’s ability to raise capital. Many of the above conditions and factors may be caused by events over which M&T has little or no control. There can be no assurance that significant disruption and volatility in the financial markets will not occur in the future. Regulatory changes relating to liquidity and risk management may also negatively impact the Company’s results of operations and competitive position. Various regulations have been adopted to impose more stringent liquidity requirements for large financial institutions, including the Company. These regulations address, among other matters, liquidity stress testing and minimum liquidity requirements. The application of certain of these regulations to banking organizations, such as the Company, have been modified, including in connection with the implementation of the tailoring rules in the EGRRCPA.  While marginal relief from certain capital and liquidity standards has been afforded to the Company (such as relief from LCR compliance), overall capital and liquidity management practices and expectations will remain unchanged for the foreseeable future. If the Company is unable to continue to fund assets through customer bank deposits or access funding sources on favorable terms or if the Company suffers an increase in borrowing costs or otherwise fails to manage liquidity effectively, the Company’s liquidity, operating margins, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. The Company may also need to raise additional capital and liquidity through the issuance of stock, which could dilute the ownership of existing stockholders, or reduce or even eliminate common stock dividends or share repurchases to preserve capital and liquidity. If the Company is unable to maintain or grow its deposits, it may be subject to paying higher funding costs. The total amount that the Company pays for funding costs is dependent, in part, on the Company’s ability to maintain or grow its deposits. If the Company is unable to sufficiently maintain or grow its deposits to meet liquidity objectives, it may be subject to paying higher funding costs. The Company competes with banks and other financial services companies for deposits. If competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits, the Company’s funding costs may increase, either because the Company raises rates to avoid losing deposits or because the Company loses deposits and must rely on more expensive sources of funding. Customers may also move noninterest-bearing deposits to interest bearing accounts, increasing the cost of those deposits. Checking and savings account balances and other forms of customer deposits may decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. The Company’s bank customers could withdraw their money and put it in alternative investments, causing the Company to lose a lower cost source of funding. Higher funding costs could reduce the Company’s net interest margin and net interest income. 43 M&T relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for its liquidity. M&T is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. M&T typically receives substantially all of its revenue from subsidiary dividends. These dividends are M&T’s principal source of funds to pay dividends on common and preferred stock, pay interest and principal on its debt, and fund purchases of its common stock. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations, as well as regulatory expectations, limit the amount of dividends that M&T’s banking subsidiaries and certain non-bank subsidiaries may pay. Regulatory scrutiny of capital levels at bank holding companies and insured depository institution subsidiaries has increased in recent years and has resulted in increased regulatory focus on all aspects of capital planning, including dividends and other distributions to shareholders of banks, such as parent bank holding companies. See “Item 1 —  Business, Supervision and Regulation of the Company, Distributions” for a discussion of regulatory and other restrictions on dividend declarations. Also, M&T’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of that subsidiary’s creditors. Limitations on M&T’s ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on its liquidity and ability to pay dividends on its stock or interest and principal on its debt, and ability to fund purchases of its common stock. Strategic Risk The financial services industry is highly competitive and creates competitive pressures that could adversely affect the Company’s revenue and profitability. The financial services industry in which the Company operates is highly competitive. The Company competes not only with commercial and other banks and thrifts, but also with insurance companies, mutual funds, hedge funds, securities brokerage firms, financial technology companies and other companies offering financial services in the U.S., globally and over the Internet. Some of the Company’s non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations the Company is, and may have greater flexibility in competing for business. In particular, the activity and prominence of so-called marketplace lenders and other technological financial services companies has grown significantly in recent years and is expected to continue growing. The Company competes on the basis of several factors, including capital, access to capital, revenue generation, products, services, transaction execution, innovation, reputation and price. Over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms. These developments have and could continue to result in the Company’s competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. The Company has and may continue to experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of its competitors seek to increase market share. Finally, technological change is influencing how individuals and firms conduct their financial affairs and is changing the delivery channels for financial services. Financial technology providers, who invest substantial resources in developing and designing new technology (in particular digital and mobile technology), are beginning to offer more traditional banking products (either directly or through bank partnerships) and may in the future be able to provide additional services by obtaining a bank-like charter, such as the OCC’s fintech charter. As a result, the Company has had and will likely continue to have to contend with a broader range of competitors including many that are not located within the geographic footprint of its banking office network. Further, along with other participants in the financial services industry, the Company frequently attempts to introduce new technology-driven products and services that are aimed at allowing the Company to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new 44 technology-driven products and services that allow it to remain competitive or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Difficulties in obtaining regulatory approval for acquisitions and in combining the operations of acquired entities with the Company’s own operations may prevent M&T from achieving the expected benefits from its acquisitions. M&T has expanded its business through past acquisitions and may do so in the future.  The Company’s ability to complete acquisitions is in many instances subject to regulatory approval, and the Company cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals would be granted. Any requisite approval could be delayed or not obtained at all, including due to, among other factors, an adverse development in either party’s regulatory standing or in any other factors considered by regulators when granting such approval, including factors not known at the time of entering into the definitive agreement for the acquisition or submission of the related application for regulatory approval, and factors that may arise subsequently; governmental, political or community group inquiries, investigations or opposition; or changes in legislation or the political environment more generally. In addition, inherent uncertainties exist when integrating the operations of an acquired entity. Acquiring other entities involves potential risks that could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, including: M&T could suffer if it fails to attract and retain skilled personnel. M&T’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key individuals and to have a diverse workforce. Competition for qualified and diverse candidates in the activities in which the Company engages and markets that the Company serves is significant, and the Company may not be able to hire candidates and retain them. Growth in the Company’s business, including through acquisitions, may increase its need for additional qualified personnel. The Company is increasingly competing for personnel with financial technology providers and other less regulated entities who may not have the same limitations on compensation as the Company does. The increase in remote work arrangements and opportunities in regional, national and global labor markets has also increased competition for the Company to attract and retain skilled personnel. The Company’s current or future approach to in-office and remote-work arrangements may not meet the needs or expectations of current or prospective employees or may not be perceived as favorable as compared to the arrangements offered by other companies, which could adversely affect the Company’s ability 45 to attract and retain employees. If the Company is not able to hire or retain highly skilled and qualified individuals, it may be unable to execute its business strategies and may suffer adverse consequences to its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s compensation practices are subject to review and oversight by the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the FDIC and other regulators. The federal banking agencies have issued joint guidance on executive compensation designed to help ensure that a banking organization’s incentive compensation policies do not encourage imprudent risk taking and are consistent with the safety and soundness of the organization. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act required those agencies, along with the SEC, to adopt rules to require reporting of incentive compensation and to prohibit certain compensation arrangements. If as a result of complying with such rules the Company is unable to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain its competitive position, or if the compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more significant, the Company’s performance, including its competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. Operational Risk The Company is subject to operational risk which could adversely affect the Company’s business and reputation and create material legal and financial exposure. Like all businesses, the Company is subject to operational risk, which represents the risk of loss resulting from human error or misconduct, inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, and external events, including the risk of loss resulting from fraud by employees or persons outside the company, and breaches in data security. Operational risk also encompasses reputational risk and compliance and legal risk, which is the risk of loss from violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices or ethical standards, as well as the risk of noncompliance with contractual and other obligations. The Company is also exposed to operational risk through outsourcing arrangements, and the effect that changes in circumstances or capabilities of its outsourcing vendors can have on the Company’s ability to continue to perform operational functions necessary to its business. Although the Company seeks to mitigate operational risk through a system of internal controls that are reviewed and updated, no system of controls, however well designed and maintained, is infallible. Control weaknesses or failures or other operational risks could result in charges, increased operational costs, harm to the Company’s reputation or foregone business opportunities. As described further in the risk factor herein, the Company’s operational risks have been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and are generally expected to remain elevated until the pandemic subsides. The Company’s information systems may experience interruptions or breaches in security, including due to events beyond the Company’s control. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems, including those of third-party service providers, to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in disruptions to its accounting, deposit, loan and other systems, and adversely affect the Company’s customer relationships. Disruption of operating systems caused by events beyond the Company’s control  may include computer viruses, electrical or telecommunications outages, quality of vulnerability patches, cyber security attacks (including Distributed Denial of Service attacks, which occur when legitimate users are unable to access information systems, devices, or other network resources due to the actions of a malicious cyber threat actor), damage to property or physical assets, or events arising from political protests or terrorist acts. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect 46 of these possible events, there can be no assurance that any such failure, disruption, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if any does occur, that it can be sufficiently or timely remediated. Information security risks for large financial institutions such as M&T have increased significantly in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, such as digital and mobile banking to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, nation-states, activists and other external parties. There have been increasing efforts on the part of third parties, including through cyber security attacks, to breach data security at financial institutions or with respect to financial transactions. There have been numerous instances involving financial services and consumer-based companies reporting unauthorized access to and disclosure of client or customer information or the destruction or theft of corporate data, including by executive impersonation and third party vendors, or the freezing of operating systems and databases making them inaccessible or unusable. There have also been several highly publicized cases where hackers have requested “ransom” payments in exchange for not disclosing customer information or for restoring access to, or the usage of, operating systems and databases. Ransomware is a form of malicious software, known as “malware,” designed to block access to, and often encrypt, computer systems or data. Once the victim’s computer system or data is locked down and encrypted, rendering it essentially useless, the malicious cyber actor then extorts the victim by demanding a ransom payment in exchange for providing a method to decrypt it. The attacker may also copy the victim’s data in the course of the attack and threaten to sell or publish the data if the ransom is not paid. Ransomware attacks can result in a loss of business functionality and of sensitive data. As cyber security threats continue to evolve, the Company expects to continue to expend significant additional resources to modify or enhance its layers of defense or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. The techniques used by cyber security criminals change frequently, may not be recognized until launched and can be initiated by a variety of actors, including terrorist organizations and hostile foreign governments. These techniques may include attempts to fraudulently induce employees, customers or others to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to data or systems. These risks may increase as the use of mobile payment and other Internet-based applications expands. Further, third parties with which the Company does business, as well as vendors and other third parties with which the Company’s customers do business, can also be sources of information security risk to the Company, particularly where activities of customers are beyond the Company’s security and control systems, such as through the use of the Internet, personal computers, tablets, smart phones and other mobile services. Security breaches affecting the Company’s customers, or systems breakdowns, failures, security breaches or employee misconduct affecting such other third parties, may require the Company to take steps to protect the integrity of its own systems or to safeguard confidential information of the Company or its customers, thereby increasing the Company’s operational costs and adversely affecting its business. Additionally, successful cyber security attacks at other large financial institutions, whether or not the Company is impacted, could lead to a general loss of customer confidence in financial institutions that could negatively affect M&T, including harming the market perception of the effectiveness of the Company’s security measures or the financial system in general which could result in reduced use of the Company’s financial products. Though the Company has insurance against some cyber security risks and attacks, it may not be sufficient to offset the impact of a material loss event. The Company, as well as third parties with which the Company does business, has expanded the use of cloud service providers, which providers could experience system breakdowns or failures, outages, downtime, cyber security-attacks, negative changes to financial condition, bankruptcy, or other adverse conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and reputation. Thus, increasing the amount of infrastructure that the Company or its vendors and service providers outsource to the cloud or to other parties may increase M&T’s risk exposure. The failure to properly upgrade or maintain the computer systems could result in greater susceptibility to attacks, 47 particularly in light of the greater frequency and severity of attacks in recent years, as well as the growing prevalence of supply chain attacks affecting software and information technology service providers. Failures related to upgrades and maintenance also increase risks related to unauthorized access and misuse, as well as the Company’s ability to achieve its business continuity and resiliency objectives. The Company could incur higher costs, experience lower revenue, and suffer reputational damage in the event of the theft, loss or misuse of information, including due to a cyber security attack. Like other financial services firms, the systems, networks and devices of the Company, its customers, employees, service providers or other third parties with whom the Company interacts continue to be the subject of attempted unauthorized access, denial-of-service attacks, computer viruses, hacking, malware, ransomware, phishing or other forms of social engineering, and cyber security attacks designed to obtain confidential information, destroy data, disrupt or degrade service, eliminate access or cause other damage. These threats may arise from human error, fraud on the part of employees, insiders or third parties or may result from accidental technology failure or vulnerabilities of suppliers through supply chain attacks. Further, cyber security and information security risks for financial institutions have generally increased because of, among other things, the growth of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies (including computers, smartphones, and other mobile devices outside the Company’s systems) by customers to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, fraudsters, hackers, terrorists, activists, instrumentalities of foreign governments and other external parties. Although the Company believes that a robust suite of authentication and layered security controls, data encryption and tokenization, threat intelligence, anti-malware defenses and vulnerability management tools exist, the failure of any of these controls could result in a failure to detect, mitigate or remediate these risks in a timely manner. Further, as the Company expands its mobile and digital capabilities, cyber security risks increase. A disruption or breach, including as a result of a cyber security attack, or media reports of perceived security vulnerabilities at the Company or at third-party service providers, could result in significant legal and financial exposure, regulatory intervention, remediation costs, damage to reputation or loss of confidence in the security of systems, products and services that could adversely affect the Company’s business. Like other U.S. financial services providers, M&T continues to be targeted with evolving and adaptive cyber security threats from sophisticated third parties. Although the Company is not aware of any material losses relating to cyber security incidents, there can be no assurance that unauthorized access or cyber security incidents will not become known or occur or that the Company will not suffer such losses in the future. The Company is subject to laws and regulations relating to the privacy of the information of clients, employees or others, and any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose the Company to liability and/or reputational damage The Company is also subject to laws and regulations relating to the privacy of the information of clients, employees or others, and any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose the Company to liability and/or reputational damage. New customer privacy initiatives will impose additional operational burdens on the Company, may limit the Company’s ability to pursue desirable business initiatives and increase the risks associated with any future use of customer data. Significant examples include the General Data Protection Regulation and the California Consumer Privacy Act. Compliance with these laws and regulations may require changes to policies, procedures and technology for information security and segregation of data, which could, among other things, make the Company more vulnerable to operational failures, and to monetary penalties, litigation or regulatory enforcement actions for breach of such laws and regulations. As privacy-related laws and regulations are implemented, they may also limit how companies like M&T can use customer data and impose obligations on companies in their management of such 48 data. The time and resources needed for the Company to comply with such laws and regulations, as well as its potential liability for non-compliance and reporting obligations in the case of data breaches, may significantly increase. The impacts will be greater to the extent requirements vary across jurisdictions. M&T relies on other companies to provide key components of the Company’s business infrastructure. Third parties provide key components of the Company’s business infrastructure such as banking services, processing, and Internet connections and network access. Any disruption in such services provided by these third parties or any failure of these third parties to handle current or higher volumes of use could adversely affect the Company’s ability to deliver products and services to clients and otherwise to conduct business. Technological or financial difficulties of a third party service provider could adversely affect the Company’s business to the extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation of services provided by that party. The Company may not be insured against all types of losses as a result of third party failures and insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses resulting from system failures or other disruptions. Failures in the Company’s business infrastructure could interrupt the operations or increase the costs of doing business. Additionally, the Company is exposed to the risk that a service disruption at a common service provider to the Company’s third-party service providers could impede their ability to provide services to the Company. Notwithstanding any attempts to diversify its reliance on third parties, the Company may not be able to effectively mitigate operational risks relating to its vendors’ use of common service providers. The Company is or may become involved from time to time in suits, legal proceedings, information-gathering requests, investigations and proceedings by governmental and self-regulatory agencies that may lead to adverse consequences. Many aspects of the Company’s business and operations involve substantial risk of legal liability. M&T and/or its subsidiaries have been named or threatened to be named as defendants in various lawsuits arising from its or its subsidiaries’ business activities (and in some cases from the activities of companies M&T has acquired). In addition, from time to time, M&T is, or may become, the subject of governmental and self-regulatory agency information-gathering requests, reviews, investigations and proceedings and other forms of regulatory inquiry, including by bank and other regulatory agencies, the SEC and law enforcement authorities. The SEC has announced a policy of seeking admissions of liability in certain settled cases, which could adversely impact the defense of private litigation. M&T is also at risk with respect to its obligations to indemnify directors and officers of it and its subsidiaries in connection with certain legal matters as well as in situations where it has agreed to indemnify others for losses related to legal proceedings, including for litigation and governmental investigations and inquiries, such as in connection with the purchase or sale of a business or assets. The results of such proceedings could lead to significant civil or criminal penalties, including monetary penalties, damages, adverse judgments, settlements, fines, injunctions, restrictions on the way in which the Company conducts its business, or reputational harm. Although the Company establishes accruals for legal proceedings when information related to the loss contingencies represented by those matters indicates both that a loss is probable and that the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated, the Company does not have accruals for all legal proceedings where it faces a risk of loss. In addition, due to the inherent subjectivity of the assessments and unpredictability of the outcome of legal proceedings, amounts accrued may not represent the ultimate loss to the Company from the legal proceedings in question. Thus, the Company’s ultimate losses may be higher, and possibly significantly so, than the amounts accrued 49 for legal loss contingencies, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Many financial institutions, including the Company, have received inquiries from the United States Congress, regulators and other government authorities regarding implementation of provisions and programs under the CARES Act, and may also face the risk of litigation concerning their participation in the PPP under that Act. The Company’s involvement in these and other programs created in response to the COVID-19 pandemic may lead to additional government and regulatory inquiries and litigation in the future, any of which could negatively impact the Company’s business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. Business Risk Changes in accounting standards could impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The accounting standard setters, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the SEC and other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations.  In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which would result in the restating of the Company’s prior period financial statements. Information about recently adopted and not as yet adopted accounting standards is included in note 27 of Notes to Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplemental Data of this Form 10-K. The Company’s reported financial condition and results of operations depend on management’s selection of accounting methods and require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. Accounting policies and processes are fundamental to the Company’s reported financial condition and results of operations. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the reported amounts of assets or liabilities and financial results. Several of M&T’s accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. Pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles, management is required to make certain assumptions and estimates in preparing the Company’s financial statements. If assumptions or estimates underlying the Company’s financial statements are incorrect, the Company may experience material losses. Management has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management’s judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments and contingencies. A variety of factors could affect the ultimate value that is obtained either when earning income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset, valuing an asset or liability, or recognizing or reducing a liability. M&T has established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. In addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. Because of the uncertainty surrounding judgments and the estimates pertaining to these matters, M&T could be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior period financial statements if those judgments and estimates prove to be incorrect. For additional information, see Part II, Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, “Critical Accounting Estimates” and Note 1, “Significant Accounting Policies,” of Notes to Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. 50 The Company’s models used for business planning purposes could perform poorly or provide inadequate information. The Company uses quantitative models to assist in measuring risks and estimating or predicting certain financial values, among other uses. The Company uses models throughout many of its business lines, relying on them, along with its judgement, for many decision making processes.  Examples of areas where the Company uses models include determining the pricing of various products, grading loans and extending credit, measuring interest rate and other market risks, predicting or estimating losses, assessing capital adequacy, and calculating economic and regulatory capital levels. The Company also uses models to estimate the value of financial instruments and balance sheet items.  Models generally evaluate the performance of various factors under anticipated future conditions, relying on historical data to help build the model and in part on assumptions as to the future, often with respect to macro-economic conditions, in order to generate the output. The models used may not accurately account for all variables and may fail to predict outcomes accurately and/or may overstate or understate certain effects. Poorly designed, implemented, or managed models or misused models, including in the choice of relevant historical data or future-looking assumptions,  present the risk that the Company’s business decisions that consider information based on such models will be adversely affected due to inadequate or inaccurate information, which may damage the Company’s reputation and adversely affect its reported financial condition and results of operations. Even if the underlying assumptions used in the Company’s models are adequate, the models may be deficient due to errors in computer code, use of bad data during development or input into the model during model use, or the use of a model for a purpose outside the scope of the model’s design.  As a result, the Company’s models may not fully capture or express the risks the Company faces, may suggest that the Company has sufficient capital when it may not, or may lead the Company to misjudge the business and economic environment in which it operates.  If the models fail to produce reliable results on an ongoing basis, the Company may not make appropriate risk management, capital planning, or other business or financial decisions. Furthermore, strategies that the Company employs to manage and govern the risks associated with its use of models may not be effective or fully reliable, and as a result, the Company may realize losses or other lapses. Finally, information the Company provides to the public or to its regulators based on poorly designed, implemented, or managed models or misused models could be inaccurate or misleading. Some of the decisions that the Company’s regulators make, including those related to capital distributions to M&T’s stockholders, could be affected adversely due to their perception that the quality of the models used to generate the relevant information is insufficient. The Company is exposed to reputational risk . A negative public opinion of the Company and its business can result from any number of activities, including the Company’s lending practices, corporate governance and regulatory compliance, acquisitions and actions taken by regulators or by community organizations in response to these activities. Significant harm to the Company’s reputation could also arise as a result of regulatory or governmental actions, litigation, employee misconduct or the activities of customers, other participants in the financial services industry or the Company’s contractual counterparties, such as service providers and vendors. A service disruption of the Company’s technology platforms or an impact to the Company’s branches could have a negative impact on a customer’s access to banking services, and harm the Company’s reputation with customers. In particular, a cyber security event impacting the Company’s or its customers’ data could have a negative impact on the Company’s reputation and customer confidence in the Company and its cyber security. Damage to the Company’s reputation could also adversely affect its credit ratings and access to the capital markets. 51 Additionally, whereas negative public opinion once was primarily driven by adverse news coverage in traditional media, the increased use of social media platforms facilitates the rapid dissemination of information or misinformation, which magnifies the potential harm to the Company’s reputation. The Company’s framework for managing risks may not be effective. The Company’s risk management framework is made up of various processes and strategies to manage its risk exposure. The framework to manage risk, including the framework’s underlying assumptions, may not be effective under all conditions and circumstances. If the risk management framework proves ineffective, the Company could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. The Company has established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report, and analyze the types of risk to which it is subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, compliance risk, strategic risk, reputation risk, and operational risk related to its employees, systems and vendors, among others. There are inherent limitations to the Company’s risk management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that it has not appropriately anticipated or identified. In addition, the Company relies on both qualitative and quantitative factors, including models, to monitor, measure and analyze certain risks and to estimate certain financial values, which are subject to error. The Company must also develop and maintain a culture of risk management among its employees, as well as manage risks associated with third parties, and could fail to do so effectively. If the Company’s risk management framework proves ineffective, the Company could incur litigation and negative regulatory consequences, and suffer unexpected losses that could affect its financial condition or results of operations. Pandemics, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could significantly impact the Company’s business. Pandemics, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events, including severe weather and other natural disasters, could have a significant impact on the Company’s ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of the Company’s deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause the Company to incur additional expenses. Although the Company has established disaster recovery plans and procedures, and monitors for significant environmental effects on its properties or its investments, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company’s assets, communities, operations, reputation and customers could be adversely affected by the impacts of climate risk. The Company operates in regions where its businesses and the activities of its customers could be negatively impacted by climate risk. This includes the physical risks resulting from chronic shifts in climate, such as rising average global temperatures and rising sea levels, and an increase in the frequency and severity of extreme weather events and natural disasters, including floods, wildfires, hurricanes and tornados. Such chronic shifts and events could damage or otherwise impact the value or productivity of customers’ assets and disrupt the Company’s operations and the operations of customers or third parties on which the Company relies. They could also result in market volatility, negatively impact  the Company’s customers’ ability to repay outstanding loans, and damage or deteriorate the value of collateral. Over time such risks may result in both increasing premiums for and reduced availability of insurance and have a broader impact on the economy. 52 Further, climate risk may manifest from efforts to transition to a low-carbon economy. Transition risks may arise from changes in consumer and business preferences, legislation, regulation, policy, and technological advancement associated with the changes necessary to limit climate change. Such risks may result in increased expenses or otherwise adversely impact the Company and its customers, including the ability of customers to repay outstanding loans. The Company could experience increased expenses resulting from climate-related strategic planning and market changes, as well as litigation and reputational harm as a result of negative public sentiment, regulatory scrutiny and reduced investor and stakeholder confidence due to its climate change strategy and responses. Ongoing legislative or regulatory uncertainties and changes regarding appropriate climate risk management and practices may also result in higher regulatory, compliance and other expenses. Discussions of the specific risks outlined above and other risks facing the Company are included within this Annual Report on Form 10-K in Part I, Item 1 “Business,” and Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Furthermore, in Part II, Item 7 under the heading “Forward-Looking Statements” is included a description of certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions identified by management that are difficult to predict and that could materially affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations, as well as the value of the Company’s financial instruments in general, and M&T common stock, in particular. In addition, the market price of M&T common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of other factors, including changes in securities analysts’ estimates of financial performance, volatility of stock market prices and volumes, rumors or erroneous information, changes in market valuations of similar companies and changes in accounting policies or procedures as may be required by the FASB or other regulatory agencies.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Corporate Profile and Significant Developments M&T Bank Corporation (“M&T”) is a bank holding company headquartered in Buffalo, New York with consolidated assets of $155.1 billion at December 31, 2021. The consolidated financial information presented herein reflects M&T and all of its subsidiaries, which are referred to collectively as “the Company.” M&T’s wholly owned bank subsidiaries are Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company (“M&T Bank”) and Wilmington Trust, National Association (“Wilmington Trust, N.A.”). M&T Bank, with total assets of $154.7 billion at December 31, 2021, is a New York-chartered commercial bank with 688 domestic banking offices in New York State, Maryland, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Connecticut, Virginia, West Virginia and the District of Columbia, and a full-service commercial banking office in Ontario, Canada. M&T Bank and its subsidiaries offer a broad range of financial services to a diverse base of consumers, businesses, professional clients, governmental entities and financial institutions located in their markets. M&T Bank lends to consumers residing in the states noted above and to small and medium-size businesses based in those areas, although loans are also originated through offices in other states and in Ontario, Canada. Certain lending activities are also conducted in other states through various subsidiaries. Trust and other fiduciary services are offered by M&T Bank and through its wholly owned subsidiary, Wilmington Trust Company. Other subsidiaries of M&T Bank include: M&T Realty Capital 59 Corporation, a multifamily commercial mortgage lender; M&T Securities, Inc., which provides institutional brokerage and securities services; Wilmington Trust Investment Advisors, Inc., which serves as an investment advisor to the Wilmington Funds, a family of proprietary mutual funds, and other funds and institutional clients; and M&T Insurance Agency, Inc., an insurance agency. Wilmington Trust, N.A. is a national bank with total assets of $12.0 billion at December 31, 2021. Wilmington Trust, N.A. and its subsidiaries offer various trust and wealth management services. Financial results during 2020 and 2021 were adversely impacted by the effects of the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (“COVID-19”) pandemic. Large portions of the U.S. economy were severely impacted throughout much of those two years and as a result, many commercial and consumer customers were negatively affected. The effects of the pandemic resulted in the Company recognizing an elevated provision for credit losses during 2020 that reflected projections of credit losses based on macroeconomic forecasts that were based on then existing economic conditions. As a result, the Company recorded a provision for credit losses of $800 million in 2020. Improvements in economic conditions and forecasts throughout 2021 led the Company to recognize a provision recapture of $75 million in that year. In response to the pandemic, the Federal Reserve took actions to lower interest rates that have negatively affected the Company’s net interest income since the beginning of the pandemic. On March 27, 2020 the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (“CARES Act”) was signed into law. In addition to providing financial assistance to both businesses and consumers, the CARES Act created a forbearance program for federally-backed mortgage loans, protected borrowers from negative credit reporting due to loan accommodations resulting from the pandemic, and provided financial institutions the option to temporarily suspend certain requirements under GAAP related to troubled debt restructurings to account for the effects of COVID-19. The bank regulatory agencies likewise issued guidance encouraging financial institutions to work prudently with borrowers that were unable to meet their contractual payment obligations because of the effects of COVID-19. That guidance, with concurrence of the Financial Accounting Standards Board, and provisions of the CARES Act allowed modifications made on a good faith basis in response to COVID-19 to borrowers who were generally current with their payments prior to any relief, to not be treated as troubled debt restructurings nor be reported as past due. The CARES Act also provided funding opportunities for small businesses under the Paycheck Protection Program (“PPP”) from approved Small Business Administration (“SBA”) lenders, including M&T Bank. For commercial and consumer customers, the Company provided a host of relief options, such as payment deferrals (including maturity extensions), loan covenant waivers and low interest rate loan products. M&T Bank funded approximately $7.0 billion of PPP loans during 2020 and another $2.9 billion in 2021, of which $1.2 billion remained outstanding at December 31, 2021. The national effort to mitigate the pandemic has resulted in a challenging environment for businesses and their employees. The Company has taken actions designed to help provide a safe environment for its customers and employees and to provide relief to customers in a variety of ways. Examples of those actions include: • The deployment of a Pandemic Response Plan to manage the pandemic’s effects on operations, employees and customers, including seeking to ensure employee safety, maintaining continuity of operations and service levels for customers, preserving the Company’s financial strength, and complying with applicable laws and regulations. Actions have included placing restrictions on travel, implementing social distancing, health screening, sanitation and other protocols, and mandating for all employees whose jobs can be performed remotely to work from home where possible. In accordance with changes in Federal guidelines (e.g. the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) and state and local regulations, the Company has begun to roll back certain of these measures; 60 • The vast majority of the Company’s non-branch employees continued to work remotely during 2021; the Company is preparing to employ an operating model consisting of onsite, hybrid and fully remote employee work schedules when COVID-19 infections and hospitalizations stabilize; • M&T Bank branches remain open, with open lobbies and normal access to drive-through windows and ATMs; and • Some loan customers are still receiving COVID-19 related relief in various forms, including modification and forbearance requests as of December 31, 2021 as described herein and in note 4 of Notes to Financial Statements. On February 22, 2021 M&T announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement with People’s United Financial, Inc. (“People’s United”) under which People’s United will be acquired by M&T in an all-stock transaction.  Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, People’s United shareholders will receive consideration valued at .118 of an M&T share in the form of M&T common stock.  People’s United outstanding preferred stock will be converted to a new series of M&T preferred stock upon completion of the acquisition.  The transaction is valued at approximately $7.8 billion (with the price based on M&T’s closing price of $153.58 per share as of December 31, 2021). As of December 31, 2021, People’s United reported $64.6 billion of assets, including $37.9 billion of loans and $10.8 billion of investment securities, $56.7 billion of liabilities, including $53.8 billion of deposits, and $7.9 billion of stockholders’ equity.  The merger has been approved by the common shareholders of M&T and People’s United, the New York State Department of Financial Services and Connecticut Department of Banking but remains subject to approval by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.  The merger is expected to be completed promptly after the parties have obtained approval and satisfied other customary closing conditions. Critical Accounting Estimates The Company’s significant accounting policies conform with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and are described in note 1 of Notes to Financial Statements. In applying those accounting policies, management of the Company is required to exercise judgment in determining many of the methodologies, assumptions and estimates to be utilized. Certain of the critical accounting estimates are more dependent on such judgment and in some cases may contribute to volatility in the Company’s reported financial performance should the assumptions and estimates used change over time due to changes in circumstances. The more significant areas in which management of the Company applies critical assumptions and estimates include the following: 61 62 Overview Net income recorded by the Company in 2021 was $1.86 billion or $13.80 of diluted earnings per common share, representing an increase of 37% and 39%, respectively, from $1.35 billion or $9.94 of diluted earnings per common share in 2020. Basic earnings per common share also increased 39% to $13.81 in 2021 from $9.94 in 2020. In connection with M&T’s pending acquisition of People’s United, the after-tax impact of merger-related expenses was $34 million ($44 million pre-tax), or $.25 of basic and diluted earnings per common share in 2021.  Merger-related expenses largely consisted of professional services related to planned integration efforts associated with the merger. There were no merger-related expenses during 2020 and 2019. Net income in 2019 totaled $1.93 billion, while diluted and basic earnings per common share were $13.75 and $13.76, respectively. Expressed as a rate of return on average assets, net income in 2021 was 1.22%, compared with 1.00% in 2020 and 1.61% in 2019. The return on average common shareholders’ equity was 11.54% in 2021, 8.72% in 2020 and 12.87% in 2019. Table 1 EARNINGS SUMMARY Dollars in millions Financial results for 2021 and 2020 were adversely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Large portions of the U.S. economy were substantially curtailed for extended periods of time and, as a result, many commercial and consumer customers were adversely impacted. Specifically, those 63 adverse economic impacts, coupled with an accounting change noted herein, resulted in the Company recognizing significantly higher provisions for credit losses during 2020 as compared with previous years.  An improvement in economic conditions during 2021 led the Company to recapture provision for credit losses of $75 million in 2021 compared with provisions for credit losses of $800 million in 2020 and $176 million in 2019.  The 2020 and 2021 periods reflect the amended accounting guidance for the measurement of expected credit losses on financial instruments. Prior to 2020, the provision for credit losses reflected incurred losses only.  In response to the pandemic, the Federal Reserve took actions to lower interest rates that have negatively affected the Company’s net interest income since the beginning of the pandemic.  Taxable-equivalent net interest income totaled $3.84 billion, $3.88 billion and $4.15 billion in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Economic forecasts improved in 2021 resulting in a recapture of provision for credit losses in 2021 compared with significant provision for credit losses recorded in the prior year. During 2020, economic forecasts utilized during each interim period resulted in higher estimates of expected credit losses in the Company’s loan portfolio than at January 1, 2020, resulting in higher levels of the provision for credit losses in each of those quarters as compared with the comparable 2019 periods. Specifically, the level of the provision in 2020 reflected the ongoing impacts of the pandemic on economic activity in the hospitality and retail sectors, the uncertainty at December 31, 2020 as to the sufficiency and effectiveness of economic stimulus provided by the U.S. government to the economy, and concerns about ultimate collectability of real estate loans where the borrowers requested re-payment forbearance. Concerns remain about large sectors of the economy, including the hotel, healthcare and office space sectors. The allowance for credit losses for commercial real estate loans remains elevated as a result. The Company expects that it will likely continue to be impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic after December 31, 2021. Specifically, the Company expects that the following balance sheet and income statement categories could be affected: • Net interest income and net interest margin – the low interest rate environment will continue to negatively affect the Company’s net interest margin until the level of general interest rates rises; • Provision for credit losses – although the economy has experienced a recovery in 2021, it is possible that economic assumptions used to calculate the allowance for credit losses at the end of future reporting periods could deteriorate, resulting in higher levels of the provision and allowance for credit losses. In addition, the impact on borrowers’ ability to repay loans could be negatively affected, potentially leading to increased charge-offs; • A resurgence of the pandemic or emergence of COVID-19 variants in large parts of the country may impact customer demand for many of the Company’s products and services, in particular credit and deposit-related products and services. Effective January 1, 2020, M&T adopted amended accounting guidance for the measurement of credit losses on financial instruments. That guidance required an allowance for credit losses to be deducted from the amortized cost basis of financial assets to present the net carrying value that is expected to be collected over the contractual term of the assets considering relevant information about past events, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of the reported amount. The accounting guidance replaced the previous incurred loss model for determining the allowance for credit losses. The adoption of the amended guidance resulted in a $132 million increase in the allowance for credit losses as of January 1, 2020. Additional information on the amended accounting guidance is provided under the heading “Provision for Credit Losses” and in note 5 of Notes to Financial Statements. There were several notable matters during 2019 that impacted that year’s results. In the first quarter of 2019, the Company recognized an expense of $50 million (reflected in “other costs of operations”) to increase its reserve for legal matters associated with a subsidiary’s role as trustee of Employee Stock Ownership Plans in its Institutional Client Services business. That expense, on an after-tax basis, reduced net income by $37 million, or $.27 of diluted earnings per common share. In 64 July 2019, M&T agreed to sell its non-controlling interest in an asset manager obtained in the 2011 acquisition of Wilmington Trust Corporation that had been accounted for using the equity method of accounting and, as a result, as of June 30, 2019 recorded a $48 million charge (reflected in “other costs of operations”) to reduce the carrying value of the investment to its estimated net realizable value. Similar to other active investment managers, the investee entity had experienced a decrease in assets under management and during the second quarter of 2019 the entity’s chief executive and investment officer announced his retirement.  Following that announcement, successor management submitted a proposal to M&T to restructure the organization of the entity. The after-tax impact of the charge was a reduction in net income of $36 million, or $.27 of diluted earnings per common share. The sale of M&T’s interest in the asset manager was effective September 30, 2019. Reflecting the matters discussed previously, taxable-equivalent net interest income was $3.84 billion in 2021, compared with $3.88 billion in 2020. That decline resulted from a 40 basis point (hundredths of one percent) narrowing of the net interest margin, or taxable-equivalent net interest income expressed as an annualized percentage of average earning assets, to 2.76% in 2021 from 3.16% in 2020, partially offset by the impact of an increase in average earning assets to $139.1 billion in 2021 from $122.9 billion in 2020. The increase in average earning assets resulted from higher amounts of low-yielding balances maintained by the Company at the Federal Reserve Bank (“FRB”) of New York. Taxable-equivalent net interest income decreased 6% in 2020 from $4.15 billion in 2019.  That decrease resulted from a 68 basis point narrowing of the net interest margin from 3.84% in 2019, partially offset by the impact of an increase in average earning assets from $108.2 billion in 2019 that reflected higher balances of loans and amounts held at the FRB of New York. The provision for credit losses declined significantly in 2021 resulting in a recapture of previously recorded provisions of $75 million, compared with a provision for credit losses of $800 million recorded in 2020. The provision in 2019 was $176 million. Net charge-offs in 2021, 2020 and 2019 were $192 million, $247 million and $144 million, respectively. Other income totaled $2.17 billion in 2021, $2.09 billion in 2020 and $2.06 billion in 2019.  As compared with 2020, higher amounts of trust income, service charges on deposit accounts, and brokerage services income in 2021 were partially offset by lower trading account and foreign exchange gains, a higher loss on bank investment securities and less in distributions from Bayview Lending Group LLC (“BLG”).  Comparing 2020 with 2019, a 24% rise in mortgage banking revenues, higher trust income and increased income from BLG were partially offset by a declines in service charges on deposit accounts, trading account and foreign exchange gains and loan syndication fees. Other expense totaled $3.61 billion in 2021, compared with $3.39 billion in 2020 and $3.47 billion in 2019. Included in those amounts are expenses considered by M&T to be “nonoperating” in nature, consisting of amortization of core deposit and other intangible assets of $10 million, $15 million and $19 million in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and merger-related expenses of $44 million in 2021. No merger-related expenses were recorded in 2020 and 2019. Exclusive of those nonoperating expenses, noninterest operating expenses totaled $3.56 billion in 2021, compared with $3.37 billion in 2020 and $3.45 billion in 2019. The higher level of such expenses in 2021 as compared with 2020 was due to increased costs for salaries and employee benefits, outside data processing and software, FDIC assessments, and professional services. Contributing to the lower level of noninterest operating expenses in 2020 as compared with 2019 were decreased costs for professional services, legal-related matters, advertising and marketing, travel and entertainment, and a $48 million charge in the second quarter of 2019 associated with the sale of an equity investment in an asset manager.  Those factors were partially offset by higher costs for salaries and employee benefits, outside data processing and software, increases to the valuation allowance for capitalized residential mortgage servicing rights and $14 million of expenses related to the planned transition of 65 the support for the Company’s retail brokerage and advisory business to the platform of LPL Financial. The efficiency ratio measures the relationship of noninterest operating expenses to revenues. The Company’s efficiency ratio, or noninterest operating expenses (as previously defined) divided by the sum of taxable-equivalent net interest income and noninterest income (exclusive of gains and losses from bank investment securities), was 59.0% in 2021, compared with 56.3% and 55.7% in 2020 and 2019, respectively. The calculations of the efficiency ratio are presented in table 2. The Company’s effective tax rate was 24.3% in 2021 and 2019, compared with 23.5% in 2020. Supplemental Reporting of Non-GAAP Results of Operations As a result of business combinations and other acquisitions, the Company had intangible assets consisting of goodwill and core deposit and other intangible assets totaling $4.6 billion at each of December 31, 2021 and 2020, consisting predominantly of goodwill. Amortization of core deposit and other intangible assets, after-tax effect, totaled $8 million, $11 million and $14 million during 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. M&T consistently provides supplemental reporting of its results on a “net operating” or “tangible” basis, from which M&T excludes the after-tax effect of amortization of core deposit and other intangible assets (and the related goodwill, core deposit intangible and other intangible asset balances, net of applicable deferred tax amounts) and gains (when realized) and expenses (when incurred) associated with merging acquired or to be acquired operations with and into the Company, since such items are considered by management to be “nonoperating” in nature. In 2021, those merger-related expenses generally consisted of professional services, reflecting legal expenses and technology-related efforts to prepare for the integration of People’s United’s systems with those of the Company, and printing costs associated with the production of the joint proxy statement/prospectus distributed to the shareholders of M&T and People’s United. Such expenses totaled $44 million ($34 million after-tax) in 2021. There were no merger-related gains or expenses in 2020 and 2019. Although “net operating income” as defined by M&T is not a GAAP measure, M&T’s management believes that this information helps investors understand the effect of acquisition activity in reported results. Net operating income was $1.90 billion in 2021, $1.36 million in 2020, and $1.94 billion in 2019. Diluted net operating earnings per common share were $14.11 in 2021, $10.02 in 2020 and $13.86 in 2019. Net operating income expressed as a rate of return on average tangible assets was 1.28% in 2021, compared with 1.04% in 2020 and 1.69% in 2019. Net operating income represented a return on average tangible common equity of 16.80% in 2021, compared with 12.79% in 2020 and 19.08% in 2019. Reconciliations of GAAP amounts with corresponding non-GAAP amounts are presented in table 2. 66 Table 2 RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP MEASURES 67 Net Interest Income/Lending and Funding Activities Taxable-equivalent net interest income was $3.84 billion in 2021, compared with $3.88 billion in 2020.  The decrease in 2021 was primarily attributable to a 40 basis point narrowing of the net interest margin to 2.76% in 2021 from 3.16% in 2020 reflecting lower yields on loans offset, in part, by lower rates paid on deposits, and reduced balances of investment securities. Those net impacts were partially offset by increased deposits held at the FRB of New York that serve to increase net interest income, but, due to their low yield, reduce the reported net interest margin. Average earnings assets were $139.1 billion and $122.9 billion in 2021 and 2020, respectively. Average loans and leases were $96.6 billion in both 2021 and 2020. Average balances of commercial loans and leases decreased $2.3 billion or 8% to $25.2 billion in 2021 from $27.5 billion in 2020. That decrease was largely the result of a decline in average balances of PPP loans due to loan forgiveness by the SBA, lower dealer floor plan balances reflecting automobile production and inventory issues experienced by the industry and subdued loan demand by commercial customers, in general. PPP loans averaged $4.1 billion in 2021 compared with $4.4 billion in 2020. Average commercial real estate loan balances were up $336 million or 1% to $37.3 billion in 2021 from $37.0 billion in 2020. Consumer loans averaged $17.3 billion in 2021, an increase of $1.4 billion or 9% from $15.9 billion in 2020, due to growth in recreational finance loans (consisting predominantly of loans secured by recreational vehicles and boats) and, to a lesser extent, automobile loans that was partially offset by declines in average outstanding balances of home equity loans and lines of credit. Average residential real estate loans were $16.8 billion and $16.2 billion in 2021 and 2020, respectively, reflecting repurchases of government-guaranteed loans from Ginnie Mae pools that are serviced by the Company. The Company repurchases government-guaranteed loans to reduce associated servicing costs, namely a requirement to advance principal and interest payments that had not been received from individual mortgagors, including payments deferred under COVID-19 forbearance arrangements. The loans repurchased from Ginnie Mae pools averaged $3.3 billion in 2021, up from $2.6 billion in 2020. Additionally, late in the third quarter of 2021 the Company began to retain recently originated residential mortgage loans in portfolio rather than sell such loans. These increases were offset by the ongoing repayments of loans by customers. Net interest income expressed on a taxable-equivalent basis aggregated $3.88 billion in 2020, down 6% from $4.15 billion in 2019. That decline primarily resulted from a 68 basis point narrowing of the net interest margin, largely the result of declines in yields on loans and balances held at the FRB of New York, reflecting the lower interest rate environment due to actions initiated by the Federal Reserve to decrease its target Federal funds rate three times in the second half of 2019 (each by a .25% increment) and twice in March of 2020 (first by .50%, then another by 1.0%). The lower net interest margin was partially offset by the impact of a $14.6 billion, or 14%, increase in average earning assets to $122.9 billion in 2020 from $108.2 billion in 2019 that reflected increases in average loan and lease balances of $7.1 billion and in interest-bearing deposits at banks of $8.5 billion, partially offset by a decline in average balances of investment securities of $3.4 billion. Average loans and leases rose $7.1 billion, or 8%, in 2020 from $89.5 billion in 2019. Average balances of commercial loans and leases increased $4.2 billion or 18% to $27.5 billion in 2020 from $23.3 billion in 2019. That increase was the result of average outstanding PPP loans of $4.4 billion that were predominantly funded in the second quarter of 2020. Average commercial real estate loan balances were up $2.1 billion or 6% to $37.0 billion in 2020 from $34.9 billion in 2019. Consumer loans averaged $15.9 billion in 2020, up $1.2 billion or 9% from $14.6 billion in 2019, due to growth in recreational finance loans and automobile loans that was partially offset by declines in outstanding balances of home equity loans and lines of credit. Average residential real estate loans were $16.2 billion in 2020 and $16.7 billion in 2019, reflecting ongoing payments by customers, partially offset by repurchases of government-guaranteed loan from Ginnie Mae pools. These repurchased loans averaged $2.6 billion in 2020, up from $889 million in 2019. 68 Table 3 AVERAGE BALANCE SHEETS AND TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT RATES 69 Table 4 summarizes average loans and leases outstanding in 2021 and percentage changes in the major components of the portfolio over the past two years. Table 4 AVERAGE LOANS AND LEASES (Net of unearned discount) Commercial loans and leases, excluding loans secured by real estate, totaled $23.5 billion at December 31, 2021, representing 25% of total loans and leases. Table 5 presents information on commercial loans and leases as of December 31, 2021 relating to geographic area, size, borrower industry and whether the loans are secured by collateral or unsecured. Of the $23.5 billion of commercial loans and leases outstanding at the end of 2021, approximately $19.9 billion, or 85%, were secured, while 35%, 17% and 28% were granted to businesses in New York State, Pennsylvania and in the Mid-Atlantic area (which includes Delaware, Maryland, New Jersey, Virginia, West Virginia and the District of Columbia), respectively. The Company provides financing for leases to commercial customers, primarily for equipment. Commercial leases included in total commercial loans and leases at December 31, 2021 aggregated $1.0 billion, of which 48% were secured by collateral located in New York State, 14% were secured by collateral in Pennsylvania and another 20% were secured by collateral in the Mid-Atlantic area. 70 Table 5 COMMERCIAL LOANS AND LEASES, NET OF UNEARNED DISCOUNT (Excludes Loans Secured by Real Estate) December 31, 2021 International loans included in commercial loans and leases totaled $116 million and $100 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Included in such amounts at each of those dates were $94 million of loans at M&T Bank’s commercial banking office in Ontario, Canada. The remaining international loans were predominantly to domestic companies with foreign operations. 71 Loans secured by real estate, including outstanding balances of home equity loans and lines of credit which the Company classifies as consumer loans, represented approximately 59% of the loan and lease portfolio during each of 2021 and 2020, compared with 63% in 2019. At December 31, 2021 , the Company held approximately $35.4 billion of commercial real estate loans (including $425 million held for sale), $16.1 billion of consumer real estate loans secured by one-to-four family residential properties (including $474 million of loans held for sale) and $3.6 billion of outstanding balances of home equity loans and lines of credit, compared with $37.6 billion, $16.8 billion and $4.0 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2020.  Included in commercial real estate loans at December 31, 2021 and 2020 were construction loans of $9.3 billion and $10.0 billion, respectively, including amounts due from builders and developers of residential real estate aggregating $1.4 billion and $1.3 billion at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Commercial real estate loans included loans held for sale totaling $425 million and $278 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. International loans included in commercial real estate loans totaled $74 million at December 31, 2021 and $60 million at December 31, 2020. Commercial real estate loans originated by the Company include both fixed and variable rate instruments with monthly payments and a balloon payment of the remaining unpaid principal at maturity. Maturity dates generally range from five to ten years and, for borrowers in good standing, the terms of such loans may be extended by the customer following maturity at the then-current market rate of interest. Adjustable-rate commercial real estate loans represented approximately 69% of the commercial real estate loan portfolio at the 2021 year-end. Table 6 presents commercial real estate loans by geographic area, type of collateral and size of the loans outstanding at December 31, 2021. New York City area commercial real estate loans totaled $8.2 billion at December 31, 2021. The $7.1 billion of investor-owned commercial real estate loans in the New York City area were largely secured by multifamily residential properties, retail space and office space. The Company’s experience has been that office, retail and service-related properties tend to demonstrate more volatile fluctuations in value through economic cycles and changing economic conditions than do multifamily residential properties. Approximately 67% of the aggregate dollar amount of New York City area loans were for loans with outstanding balances of $30 million or less, while loans of more than $50 million made up approximately 18% of the total. Commercial real estate loans secured by properties located in other parts of New York State, Pennsylvania and the Mid-Atlantic area tend to have a greater diversity of collateral types and include a significant amount of lending to customers who use the mortgaged property in their trade or business (owner-occupied). Approximately 93% of the aggregate dollar amount of commercial real estate loans in New York State secured by properties located outside of the New York City area were for loans with outstanding balances of $30 million or less. Of the outstanding balances of commercial real estate loans in Pennsylvania and the Mid-Atlantic area, approximately 81% and 77%, respectively, were for loans with outstanding balances of $30 million or less. Commercial real estate loans secured by properties located outside of Pennsylvania, the Mid-Atlantic area and New York State comprised 22% of total commercial real estate loans as of December 31, 2021. Commercial real estate construction and development loans made to investors presented in table 6 totaled $8.9 billion at December 31, 2021, or 10% of total loans and leases. Approximately 82% of those construction loans had adjustable interest rates. Included in such loans at the 2021 year-end were $1.4 billion of loans to builders and developers of residential real estate properties.  The remainder of the commercial real estate construction loan portfolio was comprised of loans made for various purposes, including the construction of office buildings, multifamily residential housing, retail space and other commercial development. 72 Table 6 COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE LOANS, NET OF UNEARNED DISCOUNT December 31, 2021 73 M&T Realty Capital Corporation, a commercial real estate lending subsidiary of M&T Bank, participates in the Delegated Underwriting and Servicing (“DUS”) program of Fannie Mae, pursuant to which commercial real estate loans are originated in accordance with terms and conditions specified by Fannie Mae and sold. Under this program, loans are sold with partial credit recourse to M&T Realty Capital Corporation. The amount of recourse is generally limited to one-third of any credit loss incurred by the purchaser on an individual loan, although in some cases the recourse amount is less than one-third of the outstanding principal balance. The Company’s maximum credit risk for recourse associated with sold commercial real estate loans was approximately $4.0 billion at each of December 31, 2021 and 2020. There have been no material losses incurred as a result of those recourse arrangements. At December 31, 2021 and 2020, commercial real estate loans serviced by the Company for other investors were $23.7 billion and $22.2 billion, respectively. Reflected in commercial real estate loans serviced for others were loans sub-serviced for others that had outstanding balances of $3.5 billion and $3.3 billion at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Real estate loans secured by one-to-four family residential properties were $16.1 billion at December 31, 2021, including approximately 36% secured by properties located in New York State, 7% secured by properties located in Pennsylvania, 17% secured by properties in New Jersey and 17% secured by properties located in other Mid-Atlantic areas. Included in residential real estate loans were loans repurchased by the Company from Ginnie Mae pools as previously described. Those repurchased loans totaled $2.8 billion at December 31, 2021 and $2.7 billion at December 31, 2020. The Company’s portfolio of limited documentation residential real estate loans held for investment totaled $1.3 billion at December 31, 2021, compared with $1.6 billion at December 31, 2020. That portfolio consisted predominantly of limited documentation loans acquired in a prior business combination. Such loans represent loans that at origination typically included some form of limited borrower documentation requirements as compared with more traditional residential real estate loans. The acquired loans that were eligible for limited documentation processing were available in amounts up to 65% of the lower of the appraised value or purchase price of the property. Loans to individuals to finance the construction of one-to-four family residential properties totaled $57 million at December 31, 2021 and $77 million at December 31, 2020, or approximately .1% of total loans and leases at each of those dates. Information about the credit performance of the Company’s residential real estate loans is included herein under the heading “Provision For Credit Losses.” Consumer loans comprised approximately 19% of total loans and leases at December 31, 2021 and 17% at December 31, 2020. Outstanding balances of recreational finance loans represented the largest component of the consumer loan portfolio at December 31, 2021 and totaled $8.1 billion or approximately 9% of total loans, up from $7.1 billion or 7% at December 31, 2020.  That growth reflects continued consumer demand for such loans. Home equity loans and lines of credit outstanding at December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020 were $3.6 billion and $4.0 billion, respectively.  Approximately 41% of home equity loans and lines of credit outstanding at December 31, 2021 were secured by properties in New York State, 22% in Maryland, 21% in Pennsylvania and 5% in New Jersey. Outstanding automobile loan balances rose to $4.7 billion at December 31, 2021 from $4.1 billion at December 31, 2020. That increase also reflects continued consumer demand for motor vehicles despite recent supply chain disruptions. Table 7 presents the composition of the Company’s loan and lease portfolio at the end of 2021, including outstanding balances to businesses and consumers in New York State, Pennsylvania, the Mid-Atlantic area and other states. 74 Table 7 LOANS AND LEASES, NET OF UNEARNED DISCOUNT December 31, 2021 The investment securities portfolio averaged $6.4 billion in 2021, down from $8.2 billion and $11.6 billion in 2020 and 2019, respectively.  The decline in average balances of investment securities in 2021 and 2020 was predominantly due to maturities and pay downs of mortgage-backed securities and maturities of U.S. Treasury notes. During 2021 the Company purchased approximately $1.6 billion of fixed rate residential mortgage-backed securities and approximately $680 million of U.S. Treasury notes.  There were no significant purchases of investment securities during 2020. During 2019, the Company purchased $500 million of U.S. Treasury notes.  Sales of investment securities were not significant in 2021, 2020 or 2019.  The Company routinely has increases and decreases in its holdings of capital stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of New York and the FRB of New York. Those holdings are accounted for at cost and are adjusted based on the amounts of outstanding borrowings and available lines of credit with those entities. The investment securities portfolio is largely comprised of residential mortgage-backed securities and shorter-term U.S. Treasury and federal agency notes. When purchasing investment securities, the Company considers its liquidity position and its overall interest-rate risk profile as well as the adequacy of expected returns relative to risks assumed, including prepayments. The Company may occasionally sell investment securities as a result of changes in interest rates and spreads, actual or anticipated prepayments, credit risk associated with a particular security, or as a result of restructuring its investment securities portfolio in connection with a business combination.  The amounts of investment securities held by the Company are influenced by such factors as available yield in comparison with alternative investments, demand for loans, which generally yield more than 75 investment securities, ongoing repayments, the levels of deposits, and management of liquidity and balance sheet size and resulting capital ratios. Fair value changes in equity securities with readily determinable fair values are recognized in the consolidated statement of income.  Net unrealized losses on such equity securities were $21 million in 2021 and $9 million in 2020, compared with net unrealized gains of $18 million in 2019.  Those gains and losses were predominantly related to the Company’s holdings of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac preferred stock. The Company regularly reviews its debt investment securities for declines in value below amortized cost that might be indicative of credit-related losses.  In light of such reviews, there were no credit-related losses on debt investment securities recognized in 2021, 2020 or 2019. Based on management’s assessment of future cash flows associated with individual investment securities as of December 31, 2021, the Company did not expect to incur any material credit-related losses in its portfolios of debt investment securities. A further discussion of fair values of investment securities is included herein under the heading “Capital.” Additional information about the investment securities portfolio is included in notes 3 and 21 of Notes to Financial Statements. Other earning assets include interest-bearing balances at the FRB of New York and other banks, trading account assets, federal funds sold and agreements to resell securities. Those other earning assets in the aggregate averaged $36.0 billion in 2021, $18.1 billion in 2020 and $7.2 billion in 2019. Interest-bearing deposits at banks averaged $35.8 billion in 2021, compared with $15.3 billion in 2020 and $6.8 billion in 2019. The amounts of interest-bearing deposits at banks at the respective dates were predominantly comprised of deposits held at the FRB of New York. The levels of those deposits often fluctuate due to changes in trust-related deposits of commercial entities, purchases or maturities of investment securities, or borrowings to manage the Company’s liquidity.  The higher amount in 2021 as compared with 2020 and 2019 reflects increased commercial and consumer deposit balances.  Agreements to resell securities averaged $167 million, $2.7 billion, $327 million in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.  The higher average balance in 2020 reflects the temporary investment by the Company of increased customer deposit levels. Table 8 AVERAGE CORE DEPOSITS The most significant source of funding for the Company is core deposits. The Company considers noninterest-bearing deposits, interest-bearing transaction accounts, savings deposits and time deposits of $250,000 or less as core deposits. The Company’s branch network is its principal source of core deposits, which generally carry lower interest rates than wholesale funds of comparable maturities. Average core deposits were $125.6 billion in 2021, compared with $105.7 billion in 2020 and $87.9 billion in 2019. Average balances of savings and interest-checking core deposits rose $7.3 billion or 12% in 2021 to $67.0 billion from $59.8 billion in 2020. Average noninterest-bearing deposits increased $14.0 billion or 34% to $55.7 billion in 2021 from $41.7 billion in 2020. A continuance of the trend observed in 2020, those increases were largely due to 76 higher average deposits of commercial and consumer customers. Average core deposits in 2020 were up 20% as compared with 2019. Average savings and interest-checking core deposit balances rose $7.9 billion or 15% in 2020 from $51.9 billion in 2019.  Average noninterest-bearing deposits in 2020 increased $10.9 billion or 35% from $30.8 million in 2019. Funding provided by core deposits represented 90% of average earning assets in 2021, compared with 86% in 2020 and 81% in 2019. Table 8 summarizes average core deposits in 2021 and percentage changes in the components of such deposits over the past two years. Core deposits totaled $128.0 billion and $114.2 billion at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Table 9 AVERAGE DEPOSITS The Company also receives funding from other deposit sources, including branch-related time deposits over $250,000, brokered deposits and, prior to June 30, 2021, deposits associated with the Company’s Cayman Islands office. Time deposits over $250,000 averaged $402 million in 2021, $683 million in 2020 and $956 million in 2019. The decline in such deposits from 2019 through 2021 was predominantly the result of maturities of time deposits and, due to the low interest rate environment, a reduced demand from customers for time deposit products. Cayman Islands office deposits averaged $181 million in 2021, $1.1 billion in 2020 and $1.4 billion in 2019. Those deposits consisted predominantly of balances swept from lower-yielding commercial customer accounts. During the second quarter of 2021, the Company introduced a new interest-bearing sweep product (included in savings and interest-bearing deposits) that replaced the Eurodollar sweep product previously recorded as Cayman Islands office deposits. As a result, there were no outstanding deposits at the Cayman Islands office as of December 31, 2021 and the office is closed. The Company had brokered savings and interest-bearing transaction accounts that averaged $3.8 billion in each of 2021 and 2020, compared with $2.7 billion in 2019.  Brokered time deposits were not a 77 significant source of funding in any of the three years discussed herein. Additional brokered deposits may be added in the future depending on market conditions, including demand by customers and other investors for those deposits, and the cost of funds available from alternative sources at the time. Time deposits over $250,000 were $345 million and $454 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Total uninsured deposits were estimated to be $69.1 billion at December 31, 2021. The Company also uses borrowings from banks, the FHLB of New York, the FRB of New York and others as sources of funding. Short-term borrowings represent arrangements that at the time they were entered into had a contractual maturity of one year or less. Average short-term borrowings were $68 million in 2021, $62 million in 2020 and $1.1 billion in 2019. Long-term borrowings averaged $3.5 billion in 2021, $5.8 billion in 2020 and $7.7 billion in 2019. Average balances of outstanding senior notes were $2.4 billion in 2021, compared with $3.8 billion and $5.3 billion in 2020 and 2019, respectively. Unsecured senior notes totaled $2.4 billion and $2.8 billion at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. In January 2021, $350 million of variable rate senior notes of M&T Bank matured. During 2020, M&T Bank redeemed $2.1 billion of fixed rate senior notes that were within thirty days of scheduled maturity and, thereby, eligible for redemption. Also included in average long-term borrowings were amounts borrowed from FHLBs of $2 million in 2021 and 2020, compared with $241 million in 2019 and subordinated capital notes of $581 million in 2021, compared with $1.4 billion in each of 2020 and 2019.  In March 2021, M&T Bank redeemed $500 million of subordinated capital notes that were due to mature on December 1, 2021 and during December 2020, $409 million of subordinated capital notes of M&T Bank matured.  Junior subordinated debentures associated with trust preferred securities that were included in average long-term borrowings were $530 million in 2021, $527 million in 2020 and $524 million in 2019. Additional information regarding long-term borrowings, including information regarding contractual maturities of such borrowings, is provided in note 9 of Notes to Financial Statements. The Company has utilized interest rate swap agreements to modify the repricing characteristics of certain components of its loans and long-term debt. As of December 31, 2021, interest rate swap agreements were used as fair value hedges of approximately $1.65 billion of outstanding fixed rate long-term borrowings. Additionally, interest rate swap agreements with a notional amount of $13.35 billion were used as cash flow hedges of interest payments associated with variable rate commercial real estate loans. Further information on interest rate swap agreements is provided herein and in note 19 of Notes to Financial Statements. Changes in the composition of the Company’s earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, as discussed herein, as well as changes in interest rates and spreads, can impact net interest income. Net interest spread, or the difference between the taxable-equivalent yield on earning assets and the rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities, was 2.70% in 2021, compared with 3.00% in 2020 and 3.48% in 2019. The yield on the Company’s earning assets decreased 59 basis points to 2.84% in 2021 from 3.43% in 2020 and the rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities decreased 29 basis points to .14% in 2021 from .43% in 2020. During 2019, the yield on earning assets was 4.53% and the rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities was 1.05%. The lower net interest spreads in 2021 and 2020 as compared with 2019 also reflect the effect of decreases in short-term interest rates initiated by the Federal Reserve and the impact of a higher proportion of low-yielding balances at the FRB of New York to total average earning assets. While those low-yielding balances add to net interest income, they have the effect of reducing the yield on total average earning assets and, as a result, the net interest spread. Net interest-free funds consist largely of noninterest-bearing demand deposits and shareholders’ equity, partially offset by bank owned life insurance and non-earning assets, including goodwill and core deposit and other intangible assets. Net interest-free funds averaged $61.1 billion in 2021, $47.3 billion in 2020 and $37.2 billion in 2019. The increase in net interest-free funds in 2021 and in 2020 reflects higher average balances of noninterest-bearing deposits. Those deposits averaged $55.7 billion in 2021, $41.7 billion in 2020 and $30.8 billion in 2019. The increase in such balances since 78 2019 was largely due to higher levels of deposits of commercial customers. Shareholders’ equity averaged $16.9 billion, $16.0 billion and $15.7 billion in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.  Goodwill and core deposit and other intangible assets averaged $4.6 billion in each of 2021, 2020 and 2019. The cash surrender value of bank owned life insurance averaged $1.86 billion in 2021, $1.84 billion in 2020 and $1.81 billion in 2019. Increases in the cash surrender value of bank owned life insurance are not included in interest income, but rather are recorded in “other revenues from operations.” The contribution of net interest-free funds to net interest margin was .06% in 2021, .16% in 2020 and .36% in 2019. The reduced contribution of net interest-free funds to net interest margin in 2021 and 2020 reflects the lower rates on interest-bearing liabilities used to value net interest-free funds. Reflecting the changes to the net interest spread and the contribution of net interest-free funds as described herein, the Company’s net interest margin was 2.76% in 2021, 3.16% in 2020 and 3.84% in 2019. Future changes in market interest rates or spreads, as well as changes in the composition of the Company’s portfolios of earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities that result in reductions in spreads, could adversely impact the Company’s net interest income and net interest margin. Management assesses the potential impact of future changes in interest rates and spreads by projecting net interest income under several interest rate scenarios. In managing interest rate risk, the Company has utilized interest rate swap agreements to modify the repricing characteristics of certain portions of its earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Periodic settlement amounts arising from these agreements are reflected in either the yields on earning assets or the rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. The notional amount of interest rate swap agreements entered into for interest rate risk management purposes was $15.0 billion (excluding $8.4 billion of forward-starting swap agreements) at December 31, 2021, $19.0 billion (excluding $32.1 billion of forward-starting swap agreements) at December 31, 2020 and $17.2 billion (excluding $40.4 billion of forward-starting swap agreements) at December 31, 2019. Under the terms of those interest rate swap agreements, the Company received payments based on the outstanding notional amount at fixed rates and made payments at variable rates. At December 31, 2021, interest rate swap agreements with notional amounts of $13.35 billion were serving as cash flow hedges of interest payments associated with variable rate commercial real estate loans, compared with $17.35 billion at December 31, 2020 and $13.35 billion at December 31, 2019. Interest rate swap agreements with notional amounts of $1.65 billion at each of December 31, 2021 and 2020, and $3.80 billion at December 31, 2019 were serving as fair value hedges of fixed rate long-term borrowings. The Company has entered into the forward-starting interest rate swap agreements predominantly to extend the term of its interest rate swap agreements serving as cash flow hedges, and provide a hedge against changing interest rates on certain of its variable rate loans. In a fair value hedge, the fair value of the derivative (the interest rate swap agreement) and changes in the fair value of the hedged item are recorded in the Company’s consolidated balance sheet with the corresponding gain or loss recognized in current earnings. The difference between changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap agreements and the hedged items represents hedge ineffectiveness and is recorded as an adjustment to the interest income or interest expense of the respective hedged item. The amounts of hedge ineffectiveness recognized in 2021, 2020 and 2019 were not material to the Company’s consolidated results of operations. In a cash flow hedge, the derivative’s gain or loss is initially reported as a component of other comprehensive income and subsequently reclassified into earnings when the forecasted transaction affects earnings. Information regarding cash flow hedges is presented in note 16 of Notes to Financial Statements. Information regarding the fair value of interest rate swap agreements and hedge ineffectiveness is presented in note 19 of Notes to Financial Statements. The changes in the fair values of the interest rate swap agreements and the hedged items primarily result from the effects of changing interest rates and 79 spreads. The average notional amounts of interest rate swap agreements entered into for interest rate risk management purposes, the related effect on net interest income and margin, and the weighted-average interest rates paid or received on those swap agreements are presented in table 10. Table 10 INTEREST RATE SWAP AGREEMENTS Provision for Credit Losses As described in note 5 of Notes to Financial Statements, effective January 1, 2020 the Company adopted amended accounting guidance for the measurement of credit losses on financial instruments. That guidance requires an allowance for credit losses to be deducted from the amortized cost basis of financial assets to present the net carrying value that is expected to be collected over the contractual term of the assets considering relevant information about past events, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of the reported amount. The guidance replaced the previous incurred loss model for determining the allowance for credit losses. The adoption of the amended guidance resulted in a $132 million increase in the allowance for credit losses at January 1, 2020. Increases in the allowance for residential real estate loans and consumer loans, reflecting the longer-dated maturities of such portfolios, were offset somewhat by net decreases in the allowance for commercial loans resulting from lower loss estimates on demand loan products due to the assumption that the Company could require full repayment of such loans in the near-term. Table 11 depicts the changes in the allowance for credit losses by loan category resulting from the adoption of the amended guidance. 80 Table 11 IMPACT OF ADOPTION OF AMENDED ACCOUNTING GUIDANCE ON ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES The amended guidance requires estimated credit losses on loans acquired at a discount to be reflected in the allowance for credit losses. Previously, such losses were netted in the carrying value of the loans unless there was an increased loss expectation subsequent to their acquisition. The gross-up of the estimated losses on loans acquired at a discount that was previously not recognized in the allowance for credit losses was $18 million on January 1, 2020. Prior to January 1, 2020, the Company generally recognized interest income on loans acquired at a discount regardless of the borrowers’ repayment status. Effective with the adoption of the accounting guidance, the Company’s nonaccrual loan policy applied to loans acquired at a discount. Loans acquired at a discount at December 31, 2019 included $171 million of loans that, effective with the adoption of the guidance, were classified as non-accrual loans on January 1, 2020. A provision for credit losses is recorded to adjust the level of the allowance to reflect expected credit losses that are based on economic forecasts as of each reporting date. A provision for credit loss recapture of $75 million was recorded in 2021, compared with provisions for credit losses of $800 million in 2020 and $176 million in 2019. As noted earlier, the recapture in 2021 and the significant increase in the provision in 2020 as compared with 2019 follows the adoption of accounting guidance on January 1, 2020 and reflects economic assumptions and projections that considered the macroeconomic outlook associated with the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent recovery. The Company’s estimates of expected losses reflect the ongoing impacts of the pandemic on economic activity, generally, and concerns about commercial real estate values and the ultimate collectability of real estate loans for which borrowers had previously received forbearance as a result of the pandemic. Net charge-offs of loans were $192 million in 2021, $247 million in 2020 and $144 million in 2019. Net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans and leases outstanding were .20% in 2021, compared with .26% in 2020 and .16% in 2019. A summary of the Company’s loan charge-offs, provision and allowance for credit losses is presented in table 12 and in note 5 of Notes to Financial Statements. 81 Table 12 LOAN CHARGE-OFFS, PROVISION AND ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES Nonaccrual loans aggregated $2.06 billion at December 31, 2021, compared with $1.89 billion and $963 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. As a percentage of total loans and leases outstanding, nonaccrual loans represented 2.22% at December 31, 2021, compared with 1.92% and 1.06% at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The higher level of nonaccrual loans at December 31, 2021 as compared with December 31, 2020 reflects the continuing impact of the pandemic on borrowers’ ability to make contractual payments on their loans, most notably loans in the hospitality sector. The higher level at December 31, 2020 as compared with December 31, 2019 reflects the addition in 2020 of $530 million of loans associated with hotels as well as other additions that, in general, resulted from the economic conditions in 2020. A summary of nonperforming assets and certain past due, renegotiated and impaired loan data and credit quality ratios is presented in table 13. 82 Table 13 NONPERFORMING ASSET AND PAST DUE, RENEGOTIATED AND IMPAIRED LOAN DATA Accruing loans past due 90 days or more were $963 million or 1.04% of total loans and leases at December 31, 2021 and $859 million or .87% at December 31, 2020. Accruing loans past due 90 days or more (excluding loans acquired at a discount) were $519 million or .57% at December 31, 2019. Accruing loans past due 90 days or more included loans guaranteed by government-related entities of $928 million, $798 million and $480 million at December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Guaranteed loans included one-to-four family residential mortgage loans serviced by the Company that were repurchased to reduce associated servicing costs, including a requirement to advance principal and interest payments that had not been received from individual mortgagors. Despite the loans being purchased by the Company, the insurance or guarantee by the applicable government-related entity remains in force. The outstanding principal balances of the repurchased loans included in the amounts noted above that are guaranteed by government-related entities totaled $889 million at December 31, 2021, $764 million at December 31, 2020 and $452 million at December 31, 2019. The increase in such loans as compared with December 31, 2019 reflects loans repurchased during 2021 and 2020. The remaining accruing loans past due 90 days or more not guaranteed by government-related entities were loans considered to be with creditworthy borrowers 83 that were in the process of collection or renewal. In addition to the past due loans, the Company also has $974 million of government-guaranteed residential mortgage loans as of December 31, 2021 that are not considered delinquent because the borrower has requested and received a COVID-19 related payment deferral.  In general, those loans were also repurchased to reduce associated servicing costs as described above and also remain covered by the insurance or guarantee of the applicable government-related entity, but are not considered to be past due in accordance with the accounting treatment afforded under the CARES Act and related regulatory and financial accounting guidance as described below and in note 1 of Notes to Financial Statements. Loans that were 30-89 days past due were $846 million at December 31, 2021, compared with $662 million at December 31, 2020 and $1.2 billion at December 31, 2019. Loans that are still subject to a COVID-19 related payment deferral are classified as current in accordance with regulatory guidance and, as a result, did not contribute to incremental additions to loans categorized as 30-89 days past due.  COVID-19 related modified loans that exit the deferral period and subsequently fail to make contractual payments in accordance with the modified terms are reported in the applicable delinquency classification per M&T Bank’s credit policy. Information about delinquent loans at December 31, 2021 and 2020 is included in note 4 of Notes to Financial Statements. Prior to the adoption of the new accounting standard on January 1, 2020, the Company reported purchased impaired loans. Those loans were impaired at the date of acquisition, were recorded at estimated fair value and were generally delinquent in payments, but, in accordance with GAAP, the Company continued to accrue interest income on such loans based on the estimated expected cash flows associated with the loans. The amended accounting guidance requires estimated credit losses on loans acquired at a discount to now be reflected in the allowance for credit losses and effective with the adoption of the guidance, the Company’s nonaccrual loan policy applies to such loans. The carrying amount of purchased impaired loans was $228 million at December 31, 2019. The direct and indirect effects of the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in a dramatic reduction in 2020 in economic activity that severely hampered the ability of some businesses and consumers to meet their repayment obligations. The CARES Act, in addition to providing financial assistance to both businesses and consumers, created a forbearance program for federally-backed mortgage loans, protected borrowers from negative credit reporting due to loan accommodations related to the pandemic, and provided financial institutions the option to temporarily suspend certain requirements under GAAP related to troubled debt restructurings for a limited period of time to account for the effects of COVID-19. The banking regulatory agencies likewise issued guidance encouraging financial institutions to work prudently with borrowers who are, or may be, unable to meet their contractual payment obligations because of the effects of COVID-19. That guidance, with concurrence of the Financial Accounting Standards Board and provisions of the CARES Act, allowed modifications made on a good faith basis in response to COVID-19 to borrowers who were generally current with their payments prior to any relief, to not be treated as delinquent or as troubled debt restructurings. Modifications included payment deferrals (including extensions of maturity dates), covenant waivers and fee waivers. The Company worked with its customers affected by COVID-19 and granted modifications across many of its loan portfolios. To the extent that such modifications met the criteria previously described, such modifications have not been classified as delinquent or as troubled debt restructurings.  A summary of loans for which COVID-19 forbearances are still in effect and which are not considered past due is included in note 4 of Notes to the Financial Statements. The Company also modified the terms of select loans in an effort to assist borrowers that were not related to the COVID-19 pandemic. If the borrower was experiencing financial difficulty and a concession was granted, the Company considered such modifications as troubled debt restructurings. Loan modifications included such actions as the extension of loan maturity dates and the lowering of 84 interest rates and monthly payments. The objective of the modifications was to increase loan repayments by customers and thereby reduce net charge-offs. Information about modifications of loans that are considered troubled debt restructurings is included in note 4 of Notes to Financial Statements. Residential real estate loans modified under specified loss mitigation programs prescribed by government guarantors that were not related to the COVID-19 pandemic have not been included in renegotiated loans because the loan guarantee remains in full force and, accordingly, the Company has not granted a concession with respect to the ultimate collection of the original loan balance. Such loans totaled $425 million and $342 million at December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, respectively. Charge-offs of commercial loans and leases, net of recoveries, aggregated $82 million in 2021, $119 million in 2020 and $34 million in 2019. As a percentage of average commercial loans, those net charge-offs were .32%, .43%, and .14% in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Commercial loans and leases in nonaccrual status were $221 million at December 31, 2021, $307 million at December 31, 2020 and $347 million at December 31, 2019. Net charge-offs of commercial real estate loans totaled $71 million during 2021, compared with $31 million during 2020 and $9 million in 2019 or .19% in 2021, .08% in 2020 and .03% in 2019 of average commercial real estate loans. The higher levels of net charge-offs in 2021 and 2020 of commercial loans and commercial real estate loans reflect the impact of the pandemic on borrowers’ abilities to repay loans. In the commercial real estate portfolio, those charged-off loans were mostly associated with the retail, office building and hospitality sectors. Commercial real estate loans classified as nonaccrual were $1.2 billion at December 31, 2021, $891 million at December 31, 2020 and $195 million at December 31, 2019.  Nonaccrual commercial real estate loans included construction-related loans of $114 million, $115 million and $37 million at the end of 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The increase in commercial real estate loans in nonaccrual status since December 31, 2019 was largely reflective of loans in the hospitality sector. Hotel-related commercial real estate loans (including construction) in nonaccrual status at December 31, 2021 and 2020 were $696 million and $607 million, respectively. Net charge-offs of residential real estate loans were $2 million in 2021, $3 million in 2020 and $5 million in 2019 representing .01% of average residential real estate loans in 2021, compared with .02% in 2020 and .03% in 2019. Residential real estate loans in nonaccrual status at December 31, 2021 were $479 million, compared with $513 million and $319 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Nonaccrual limited documentation first mortgage loans aggregated $123 million at December 31, 2021, compared with $147 million and $83 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Limited documentation first mortgage loans represent loans secured by residential real estate that at origination typically included some form of limited borrower documentation requirements as compared with more traditional loans. The Company no longer originates limited documentation loans. Residential real estate loans past due 90 days or more and accruing interest (excluding loans acquired at a discount prior to 2020) totaled $920 million at December 31, 2021, $793 million at December 31, 2020 and $487 million at December 31, 2019. A substantial portion of such amounts related to guaranteed loans repurchased from government-related entities, including the previously noted higher level of repurchases of loans associated with the Company’s loan servicing portfolio. However, loans that have been granted forbearances related to COVID-19 that are still in effect are not considered to be past due in accordance with the previously noted regulatory guidance and provisions of the CARES Act.  Information about the location of nonaccrual and charged-off residential real estate loans as of and for the year ended December 31, 2021 is presented in table 14. 85 Table 14 SELECTED RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED LOAN DATA 86 Net charge-offs of consumer loans aggregated $38 million in 2021, compared with $93 million in 2020 and $97 million in 2019. As a percentage of average consumer loans those net charge-offs were .22% in 2021, .59% in 2020 and .67% in 2019. Included in net charge-offs of consumer loans were: net recoveries of automobile loans of $2 million in 2021, compared with net charge-offs of $22 million in 2020 and $24 million in 2019; recreational finance loan net charge-offs of $13 million, $27 million and $26 million during 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively; and net recoveries of home equity loans and lines of credit secured by one-to-four family residential properties of $3 million in 2021, compared with net charge-offs of $3 million in 2020 and $6 million in 2019. The reduced level of net charge-offs of consumer loans in 2021 reflects the improving economy, in general, and the level of prices associated with motor vehicles, recreational vehicles and residential real estate. Nonaccrual consumer loans were $177 million at December 31, 2021, compared with $183 million and $102 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Included in nonaccrual consumer loans at the 2021, 2020 and 2019 year-ends were: automobile loans of $34 million, $39 million and $21 million, respectively; recreational finance loans of $28 million, $26 million and $14 million, respectively; and outstanding balances of home equity loans and lines of credit of $70 million, $79 million and $63 million, respectively. Information about the location of nonaccrual and charged-off home equity loans and lines of credit as of and for the year ended December 31, 2021 is presented in table 14. Information about past due and nonaccrual loans as of December 31, 2021 and 2020 is also included in note 5 of Notes to Financial Statements. Real estate and other foreclosed assets totaled $24 million at December 31, 2021, compared with $35 million at December 31, 2020 and $86 million at December 31, 2019. The decline in 2020 and 2021 is largely reflective of foreclosure moratoriums imposed by government authorities in numerous jurisdictions. Net gains or losses associated with real estate and other foreclosed assets were not material in 2021, 2020 or 2019. At December 31, 2021, foreclosed assets are comprised entirely of the Company’s holding of residential real estate-related properties. Beginning in 2020, management determined the allowance for credit losses under amended accounting guidance that requires estimating the amount of current expected credit losses over the remaining contractual term of the loan and lease portfolio. Prior to 2020, the allowance for credit losses represented the amount that in management’s judgment reflected incurred credit losses inherent in the loan and lease portfolio as of the balance sheet date.  A description of the methodologies used by the Company to estimate its allowance for credit losses can be found in note 5 of Notes to Financial Statements. In establishing the allowance for credit losses subsequent to December 31, 2019, the Company estimates losses attributable to specific troubled credits identified through both normal and targeted credit review processes and also estimates losses for other loans and leases with similar risk characteristics on a collective basis. For purposes of determining the level of the allowance for credit losses, the Company evaluates its loan and lease portfolio by type. Despite recent improvements in macroeconomic forecasts, at the time of the Company’s analysis regarding the determination of the allowance for credit losses as of December 31, 2021, concerns persisted about the somewhat uneven and incomplete recovery evident in the economy, the emergence of new COVID-19 variants (including the recent emerging variant commonly referred to as Omicron) that may further disrupt a recovery, the ultimate effectiveness of economic stimulus being provided by the U.S. government that has contributed to increased deficit spending and raised inflation concerns; disruptions to supply chains and the related impacts to businesses and consumers; the volatile nature of global markets, including the impact international economic conditions could have on the U.S. economy; Federal Reserve positioning of monetary policy; the extent to which borrowers, in particular commercial real estate borrowers may continue to be negatively affected by pandemic-related and general economic conditions; and continued stagnant population and economic growth in the upstate New York and central Pennsylvania regions (approximately 48% of the Company’s loans and leases are to customers in New York State and Pennsylvania) that could see lingering effects of the economic 87 downturn. The Company utilizes a loan grading system to differentiate risk amongst its commercial loans and commercial real estate loans. Loans with a lower expectation of default are assigned one of ten possible “pass” loan grades while specific loans determined to have an elevated level of credit risk are classified as “criticized.” A criticized loan may be classified as “nonaccrual” if the Company no longer expects to collect all amounts according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement or the loan is delinquent 90 days or more. During 2021 and 2020, the Company re-graded significant portions of its commercial loans and commercial real estate loans based on financial results and projections of specific borrowers, particularly those that were affected by COVID-19 impacts. Criticized commercial loans and commercial real estate loans totaled $9.0 billion at December 31, 2021, compared with $7.2 billion at December 31, 2020 and $2.5 billion at December 31, 2019. The rise in criticized loans reflects the impact of the pandemic on borrowers’ financial condition and the re-grading of loans by the Company, and is reflective of the provision for expected credit losses recorded by the Company in 2020 as the pandemic unfolded. The increases in such loans since December 31, 2020 were largely attributable to investor-owned permanent commercial real estate loans in the hotel, office and healthcare sectors and commercial real estate construction loans in the hotel and healthcare sectors. On the overall basis, weighted-average loan-to-stabilized value (“LTV”) ratios for investor-owned commercial real estate properties do not vary significantly by asset class or sector, and at December 31, 2021 were generally within the range of 55% to 65% with an overall weighted-average LTV ratio of approximately 57%. Investor-owned commercial real estate loans comprised $7.0 billion, or 78% of total criticized loans of $9.0 billion at December 31, 2021. The COVID-19 pandemic and related governmental responses led to a significant reduction in economic activity that was detrimental to many borrowers across the Company’s geographic regions, particularly commercial borrowers in the hotel, health care-related and office sectors and residential mortgage borrowers. Many of these borrowers have been and could likely continue to be adversely impacted by the economic effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. COVID-19 related modifications with payment deferrals at December 31, 2021 totaled $1.2 billion and consisted predominantly of residential real estate loans, including $974 million of government-guaranteed loans. Substantially all of those deferrals are scheduled to expire during 2022 and/or are in the process of formal modification of repayment terms for previously deferred payments. As commercial loans and commercial real estate loans were approved for modifications related to COVID-19, the Company assessed loans considering the credit worthiness of the borrower, collateral values, the financial condition of any guarantors, and the expected collectability of contractual principal and interest payments. Loan-to-collateral values on investor-owned loans are generally relatively low and oftentimes the loans include some form of recourse. Loans secured by residential real estate with a COVID-19 payment forbearance were evaluated for collectability based on the borrower’s ability to repay considering past performance and estimated collateral values. If collectability was considered doubtful, loans were classified as nonaccrual. Loan officers in different geographic locations with the support of the Company’s credit department personnel review and reassign loan grades based on their detailed knowledge of individual borrowers and their judgment of the impact on such borrowers resulting from changing conditions in their respective regions. The Company re-assessed its loan grades for those borrowers most impacted by COVID-19. The Company’s policy is that, at least annually, updated financial information is obtained from commercial borrowers associated with pass grade loans and additional analysis performed. On a quarterly basis, the Company’s centralized credit department reviews all criticized commercial loans and commercial real estate loans greater than $1 million to determine the appropriateness of the assigned loan grade, including whether the loan should be reported as accruing or nonaccruing. For criticized nonaccrual loans, additional meetings are held with loan officers and their managers, workout specialists and senior management to discuss each of the relationships. In analyzing criticized loans, borrower-specific information is reviewed, including operating results, future cash flows, recent developments and the borrower’s outlook, and other pertinent data. The 88 timing and extent of potential losses, considering collateral valuation and other factors, and the Company’s potential courses of action are contemplated. With regard to residential real estate loans, the Company’s loss identification and estimation techniques make reference to loan performance and house price data in specific areas of the country where collateral securing the Company’s residential real estate loans is located. For residential real estate-related loans, including home equity loans and lines of credit, the excess of the loan balance over the net realizable value of the property collateralizing the loan is charged-off when the loan becomes 150 days delinquent. That charge-off is based on recent indications of value from external parties that are generally obtained shortly after a loan becomes nonaccrual. Loans to consumers that file for bankruptcy are generally charged off to estimated net collateral value shortly after the Company is notified of such filings.  At December 31, 2021, approximately 61% of the Company’s home equity portfolio consisted of first lien loans and lines of credit. Of the remaining junior lien loans in the portfolio, approximately 56% (or approximately 22% of the aggregate home equity portfolio) consisted of junior lien loans that were behind a first lien mortgage loan that was not owned or serviced by the Company. To the extent known by the Company, if a senior lien loan would be on nonaccrual status because of payment delinquency, even if such senior lien loan was not owned by the Company, the junior lien loan or line that is owned by the Company is placed on nonaccrual status. In monitoring the credit quality of its home equity portfolio for purposes of determining the allowance for credit losses, the Company reviews delinquency and nonaccrual information and considers recent charge-off experience. When evaluating individual home equity loans and lines of credit for charge off and for purposes of determining the allowance for credit losses, the Company considers the required repayment of any first lien positions related to collateral property. Home equity line of credit terms vary but such lines are generally originated with an open draw period of ten years followed by an amortization period of up to twenty years. At December 31, 2021, approximately 85% of all outstanding balances of home equity lines of credit related to lines that were still in the draw period, the weighted-average remaining draw periods were approximately five years, and approximately 10% were making contractually allowed payments that do not include any repayment of principal. Factors that influence the Company’s credit loss experience include overall economic conditions affecting businesses and consumers, generally, but also residential and commercial real estate valuations, in particular, given the size of the Company’s real estate loan portfolios. Commercial real estate valuations can be highly subjective, as they are based upon many assumptions. Such valuations can be significantly affected over relatively short periods of time by changes in business climate, economic conditions, interest rates and, in many cases, the results of operations of businesses and other occupants of the real property. Similarly, residential real estate valuations can be impacted by housing trends, the availability of financing at reasonable interest rates, and general economic conditions affecting consumers. The Company generally estimates current expected credit losses on loans with similar risk characteristics on a collective basis. To estimate expected losses, the Company utilizes statistically developed models to project principal balances over the remaining contractual lives of the loan portfolios and determine estimated credit losses through a reasonable and supportable forecast period. The Company’s approach for estimating current expected credit losses for loans and leases has included utilizing macro-economic assumptions to project losses over a two-year reasonable and supportable forecast period. Subsequent to the forecast period, the Company reverted to longer-term historical loss experience, over a period of one year, to estimate expected credit losses over the remaining contractual life. Forward-looking estimates of certain macro-economic variables are determined by the M&T Scenario Development Group, which is comprised of senior management business leaders and economists. Among the assumptions utilized as of December 31, 2021 was that the national unemployment rate will average 4.6% through the first year of the reasonable and 89 supportable forecast period before gradually improving to 3.7% in the latter half of 2023. The forecast also assumed gross domestic product grows during 2022 at a 3.1% annual rate and during 2023 at a 2.7% average rate. Commercial real estate and residential real estate prices were assumed to cumulatively grow 11.1% and 5.9%, respectively, over the two-year reasonable and supportable forecast period. The assumptions utilized in estimating the allowance for credit losses as of December 31, 2020 included an estimated unemployment rate averaging 6.9% through 2021 followed by a gradual return to long-term historical averages by the end of 2022. Gross domestic product was assumed to grow at a 4.1% annual rate during 2021 resulting in a return to pre-pandemic levels by the end of 2022. Commercial real estate prices were assumed to decline by approximately 6.8% in 2021, followed by improvement. Residential real estate prices were not assumed to fluctuate significantly. In most instances the actual macroeconomic conditions experienced in 2021 were favorable in comparison to the forecasts made at December 31, 2020. Such improvements contributed to the recapture of provision for credit losses during 2021 of $75 million. The assumptions utilized as of January 1, 2020 at the time of the adoption of the expected credit loss accounting standard were significantly less severe. Those assumptions anticipated unemployment rates that averaged under 4% and steady growth in gross domestic product of 3.3% over the eight-quarter forecast period. Forecasted changes in real estate prices as of that date were not significant. The assumptions utilized were based on information available to the Company at or near December 31, 2021, December 31, 2020 and January 1, 2020 (at the time it was preparing its estimate of expected credit losses as of those dates). In establishing the allowance for credit losses the Company also considers the impact of portfolio concentrations, changes in underwriting practices, product expansions into new markets, imprecision in its economic forecasts, and other risk factors that influence its loss estimation process. With respect to economic forecasts, the Company assessed the likelihood of alternative economic scenarios during the two-year reasonable and supportable time period. Economic forecasts have changed rapidly in the recent past due to the uncertain impacts of COVID-19. Generally, an increase in unemployment rate or a decrease in any of the rate of change in gross domestic product, commercial real estate prices or home prices would have an adverse impact on expected credit losses and would likely result in an increase in the allowance for credit losses. Forward looking economic forecasts are subject to inherent imprecision and future events may differ materially from actual events. In consideration of such uncertainty, the following alternative economic scenarios were considered to estimate the possible impact on modeled credit losses. • A potential downside economic scenario assumed the unemployment rate reaches 9.0% in 2022 before declining to 7.1% by the end of the reasonable and supportable forecast period. The scenario also assumed gross domestic product contracts 2.1% in 2022 before recovering to recently experienced levels by the third quarter of 2023, commercial real estate prices cumulatively decline 12.4% by the end of 2023, and residential real estate prices decline modestly in 2022 and remain flat during 2023. • A potential upside economic scenario assumed the unemployment rate declines to 3.0% in 2022’s fourth quarter where it stays for the remainder of the reasonable and supportable forecast period. The scenario also assumes gross domestic product grows 4.8% in 2022 and 1.5% in 2023, while commercial real estate and residential real estate prices cumulatively rise 16.9% and 7.6%, respectively, over the two-year reasonable and supportable forecast period. The scenario analyses resulted in an additional $222 million of modeled credit losses under the assumptions of the downside economic scenario, whereas under the assumptions of the upside economic scenario a $56 million reduction in modeled credit losses could occur. These examples are only a few of the numerous possible economic scenarios that could be utilized in assessing the sensitivity of expected credit losses. The estimated impacts on credit losses in such scenarios pertain 90 only to modeled credit losses and do not include consideration of other factors the Company may evaluate when determining its allowance for credit losses. As a result, it is possible that the Company may, at another point in time, reach different conclusions regarding credit loss estimates. The Company’s process for determining the allowance for credit losses undergoes quarterly and periodic evaluations by independent risk management personnel, which among many other considerations, evaluate the reasonableness of management’s methodology and significant assumptions. Further information about the Company’s methodology to estimate expected credit losses is included in note 5 of Notes to Financial Statements. Prior to 2020, the allowance for credit losses represented the amount that in management’s judgment reflected incurred credit losses inherent in the loan and lease portfolio as of the balance sheet date.  The allowance was determined by management’s evaluation of the loan and lease portfolio based on such factors as the differing economic risks associated with each loan category, the current financial condition of specific borrowers, the current economic environment in which borrowers operate, the level of delinquent loans, the value of any collateral and, where applicable, the existence of any guarantees or indemnifications.  The estimation of the allowance for credit losses prior to 2020 did not consider reasonable and supportable forecasts that could have affected the collectability of the reported amounts. A comparative allocation of the allowance for credit losses for each of the past five year-ends is presented in table 15. Amounts were allocated to specific loan categories based on information available to management at the time of each year-end assessment and using the methodologies described herein. Variations in the allocation of the allowance by loan category as a percentage of those loans reflect the impact of the new accounting rules effective January 1, 2020 as well as changes in management’s estimate of credit losses in light of economic developments. Furthermore, the Company’s allowance is general in nature and is available to absorb losses from any loan or lease category. Additional information about the allowance for credit losses is included in note 5 of Notes to Financial Statements. Table 15 ALLOCATION OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES TO LOAN CATEGORIES 91 Management believes that the allowance for credit losses at December 31, 2021 appropriately reflected expected credit losses inherent in the portfolio as of that date. The allowance for credit losses totaled $1.47 billion at December 31, 2021, $1.74 billion at December 31, 2020, and $1.18 billion at January 1, 2020 when amended guidance became effective. The allowance for credit losses was $1.05 billion at December 31, 2019. The decrease in the allowance in 2021 reflects improved financial forecasts as compared with those as of December 31, 2020. The increase in the allowance in 2020 as compared with 2019 reflected the $132 million addition attributable the adoption of the new accounting standard as well as the expected impact of forecasted economic conditions resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic on borrowers’ abilities to repay loans. As a percentage of loans outstanding, the allowance was 1.58% at December 31, 2021, 1.76% at December 31, 2020 and 1.16% at December 31, 2019. Excluding the impact of $1.2 billion and $5.4 billion of government-guaranteed PPP loans outstanding at December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, respectively, the allowance as a percentage of total loans and leases was 1.60% and 1.86%, respectively. The level of the allowance reflects management’s evaluation of the loan and lease portfolio using the methodology and considering the factors as described herein. Should the various economic forecasts and credit factors considered by management in establishing the allowance for credit losses change and should management’s assessment of losses in the loan portfolio also change, the level of the allowance as a percentage of loans could increase or decrease in future periods. The reported level of the allowance reflects management’s evaluation of the loan and lease portfolio as of each respective date. The ratio of the allowance for credit losses to total nonaccrual loans at the end of 2021, 2020 and 2019 was 71%, 92% and 109%, respectively. Given the Company’s general position as a secured lender and its practice of charging off loan balances when collection is deemed doubtful, that ratio and changes in the ratio are generally not an indicative measure of the adequacy of the Company’s allowance for credit losses, nor does management rely upon that ratio in assessing the adequacy of the Company’s allowance for credit losses. The Company had no concentrations of credit extended to any specific industry that exceeded 10% of total loans at December 31, 2021, however residential real estate loans comprised approximately 17% of the loan portfolio. Outstanding loans to foreign borrowers aggregated $197 million at December 31, 2021, or .2% of total loans and leases. Other Income Other income aggregated $2.17 billion in 2021, up from $2.09 billion and $2.06 billion in 2020 and 2019, respectively. The rise in other income from 2020 to 2021 was largely attributable to higher trust income, service charges on deposit accounts, brokerage services income, merchant discount and credit card fees and letter of credit and other credit-related fees, partially offset by lower trading account and foreign exchange gains, higher valuation losses on investment securities and a decline in the level of distributions from BLG. The growth experienced from 2019 to 2020 reflected higher mortgage banking revenues and trust income, partially offset by declines in service charges on deposit accounts, trading account and foreign exchange gains and letter of credit and other credit-related fees. Mortgage banking revenues aggregated $571 million in 2021, $567 million in 2020 and $458 million in 2019. Mortgage banking revenues are comprised of both residential and commercial mortgage banking activities. The Company’s involvement in commercial mortgage banking activities includes the origination, sales and servicing of loans under the multifamily loan programs of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. Residential mortgage banking revenues, consisting of realized gains from sales of residential real estate loans and loan servicing rights, unrealized gains and losses on residential real estate loans 92 held for sale and related commitments, residential real estate loan servicing fees, and other residential real estate loan-related fees and income, were $406 million in 2021 , $424 million in 2020 and $317 million in 2019 . The higher residential mortgage banking revenues in 2021 and 2020 as compared with 2019 resulted from higher gains associated with loans held for sale, reflecting higher origination volumes and improved margins. Late in the third quarter of 2021, the Company began to originate the majority of its residential real estate loans to retain in its loan portfolio rather than for sale, contributing to the reduction in residential mortgage banking revenues from 2020. New commitments to originate residential real estate loans to be sold were approximately $3.9 billion in 2021, compared with $4.5 billion in 2020 and $2.7 billion in 2019. The decrease in 2021 from 2020 reflects the retention of originated residential real estate loans beginning late in the third quarter of 2021.  Realized gains from sales of residential real estate loans and loan servicing rights and recognized net unrealized gains or losses attributable to residential real estate loans held for sale, commitments to originate loans for sale and commitments to sell loans aggregated to gains of $164 million in 2021, $191 million in 2020 and $72 million in 2019. Loans held for sale that were secured by residential real estate totaled $474 million and $777 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Commitments to sell residential real estate loans and commitments to originate residential real estate loans for sale at pre-determined rates totaled $617 million and $233 million, respectively, at December 31, 2021, $1.47 billion and $1.03 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2020 and $713 million and $423 million, respectively, at December 31, 2019. Net recognized unrealized gains on residential real estate loans held for sale, commitments to sell loans and commitments to originate loans for sale were $10 million at December 31, 2021, compared with $52 million at December 31, 2020 and $12 million at December 31, 2019. Changes in such net unrealized gains are recorded in mortgage banking revenues and resulted in a net decrease in revenue of $16 million in 2021, compared with net increases of $40 million and $5 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively. Revenues from servicing residential real estate loans for others totaled $242 million in 2021 compared with $233 million in 2020 and $245 million in 2019. Residential real estate loans serviced for others aggregated $97.9 billion at December 31, 2021, $94.4 billion a year earlier and $95.1 billion at December 31, 2019. Reflected in residential real estate loans serviced for others were loans sub-serviced for others of $74.7 billion, $68.1 billion and $62.8 billion at December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Revenues earned for sub-servicing loans totaled $153 million in 2021, compared with $129 million in 2020 and $125 million in 2019. The contractual servicing rights associated with loans sub-serviced by the Company were predominantly held by affiliates of BLG. Information about the Company’s relationship with BLG and its affiliates is included in note 25 of Notes to Financial Statements. Capitalized residential mortgage servicing assets totaled $217 million at December 31, 2021 (net of a $24 million valuation allowance), compared with $201 million (net of a $30 million valuation allowance) and $237 million (net of a $7 million valuation allowance) at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Reflecting changes in fair value of some of the servicing rights in comparison to the amortized cost of such rights, a $6 million reversal of the valuation allowance for impairment of capitalized residential mortgage servicing rights was recorded in 2021, compared with provisions of $23 million and $7 million recorded in 2020 and 2019, respectively. Additional information about the Company’s capitalized residential mortgage servicing assets, including information about the calculation of estimated fair value, is presented in note 7 of Notes to Financial Statements. Commercial mortgage banking revenues totaled $165 million in 2021, compared with $143 million in 2020 and $141 million in 2019. Included in such amounts were revenues from loan origination and sales activities of $89 million in 2021, $84 million in 2020 and $81 million in 2019.  Commercial real estate loans originated for sale to other investors totaled approximately $4.0 billion 93 in each of 2021 and 2019 , compared with $3.4 billion in 2020 . Loan servicing revenues totaled $76 million in 2021 , $59 million in 2020 and $60 million in 2019 . The higher servicing revenues in 2021 were reflective of fees received from customers who repaid loans prior to maturity. Capitalized commercial mortgage servicing assets were $133 million at each of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020 and $131 million at December 31, 2019 . Commercial real estate loans serviced for other investors totaled $23.7 billion at December 31, 2021 , $22.2 billion at December 31, 2020 and $21.0 billion at December 31, 2019 , and included $4.0 billion at each of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020 and $3.9 billion at December 31, 2019 of loan balances for which investors had recourse to the Company if such balances are ultimately uncollectable. Included in commercial real estate loans serviced for others were loans sub-serviced for others of $3.5 billion at December 31, 2021, $3.3 billion at December 31, 2020 . and $3.4 billion at December 31, 2019 . Commitments to sell commercial real estate loans and commitments to originate commercial real estate loans for sale aggregated $751 million and $325 million, respectively, at December 31, 2021 , $641 million and $364 million, respectively, at December 31, 2020 and $193 million and $164 million, respectively, at December 31, 2019 . Commercial real estate loans held for sale were $425 million, $278 million and $28 million at December 31, 2021 , 2020 and 2019 , respectively. The higher balances at December 31, 2021 and 2020, as compared with December 31, 2019, reflect loans originated later in each year that had not been delivered to investors by year end. Service charges on deposit accounts totaled $402 million in 2021, compared with $371 million in 2020 and $433 million in 2019. The lower service charges in 2020 as compared with 2021 and 2019 reflect reduced consumer service charges, predominantly resulting from COVID-19 related fee waivers and lower customer transaction activity.  The decrease from 2019 to 2020 also reflected lower commercial service charges, largely due to higher customer deposit levels that could be used by those customers to offset transaction related fees. In February 2022, the Company announced it will be eliminating non-sufficient funds fees and overdraft protection transfer charges from linked deposit accounts as well as reducing overdraft fees and limiting daily fee assessments to once per day. The Company estimates these changes will reduce income from service charges on deposit accounts by approximately $40 million in 2022. Trust income includes fees related to two significant businesses. The Institutional Client Services (“ICS”) business provides a variety of trustee, agency, investment management and administrative services for corporations and institutions, investment bankers, corporate tax, finance and legal executives, and other institutional clients who: (i) use capital markets financing structures; (ii) use independent trustees to hold retirement plan and other assets; and (iii) need investment and cash management services. The Wealth Advisory Services (“WAS”) business offers personal trust, planning, fiduciary, asset management, family office and other services designed to help high net worth individuals and families grow, preserve and transfer wealth. Trust income was $645 million in 2021, compared with $602 million in 2020 and $573 million in 2019. Revenues associated with the ICS business were $375 million in 2021, $342 million in 2020 and $311 million in 2019. The increases in ICS revenue in 2021 and 2020 reflect sales activities and increased retirement services income resulting from growth in collective fund balances. Revenues attributable to WAS totaled $255 million in 2021 and $233 million in each of 2020 and 2019. As compared with the previous two years, revenue in 2021 reflected an increase related to equity market performance.  Revenue in 2021 and 2020 was offset by proprietary fund money market fee waivers as a result of the low interest rate environment. Trust assets under management were $165.6 billion and $135.8 billion at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Trust assets under management include the Company’s proprietary mutual funds’ assets of $13.2 billion at December 31, 2021 and $12.9 billion at December 31, 2020. Additional trust income from investment management activities was $15 million, $27 million and $29 million in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and includes fees earned from retail customer investment accounts. 94 Brokerage services income, which includes revenues from the sale of mutual funds and annuities and securities brokerage fees and, since June 2021, sales of select investment products of LPL Financial (as described below), totaled $63 million in 2021 , compared with $47 million in 2020 and $49 million in 2019 . The increase in brokerage services income in 2021 reflects a change in June 2021 in product delivery to retail brokerage and certain trust customers related to the LPL Financial relationship.  Revenues associated with the sale of investment products of LPL Financial, an independent financial services broker, are included in “brokerage services income.” Prior to the transition to LPL Financial’s product platform, revenues earned by the Company from providing those customers with proprietary trust products managed by the Company were reported as trust income. Trading account and foreign exchange activity resulted in gains of $24 million in 2021, $41 million in 2020 and $62 million in 2019. The decline in gains resulted predominantly from decreased activity related to interest rate swap agreements with commercial customers. The Company enters into interest rate swap agreements and foreign exchange contracts with customers who need such services and concomitantly enters into offsetting trading positions with third parties to minimize the risks involved with these types of transactions. Information about the notional amount of interest rate, foreign exchange and other contracts entered into by the Company for trading account purposes is included in note 19 of Notes to Financial Statements and herein under the heading “Liquidity, Market Risk, and Interest Rate Sensitivity.” The Company recognized net losses on investment securities of $21 million and $9 million in 2021 and 2020, respectively, compared with net gains of $18 million in 2019. The gains and losses represented unrealized gains and losses on investments in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac preferred stock. Other revenues from operations totaled $483 million in 2021, compared with $471 million in 2020 and $469 million in 2019. Comparing 2021 with 2020, higher merchant discount, credit card interchange and letter of credit and credit-related fees, largely loan syndication fees, were partially offset by lower income received from BLG during 2021. Comparing 2020 with 2019, higher income received from BLG during 2020 was offset by declines in letter of credit and credit-related fees, predominantly loan syndication fees. Included in other revenues from operations were the following significant components. Letter of credit and other credit-related fees totaled $128 million, $109 million and $124 million in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The increased level of such fees in 2021 and 2019 resulted largely from higher loan syndication fees as compared with 2020.  Revenues from merchant discount and credit card fees were $140 million in 2021, $111 million in 2020 and $117 million in 2019. The higher level of such revenues in 2021 was the result of increased customer transaction activity reflecting lessened pandemic related restrictions on business and customer activity as compared with 2020. Tax-exempt income earned from bank owned life insurance, which includes increases in the cash surrender value of life insurance policies and benefits received, aggregated $47 million in 2021, $48 million in 2020 and $50 million in 2019. Insurance-related sales commissions and other revenues totaled $47 million in each of 2021, 2020 and 2019. Automated teller machine usage fees aggregated $11 million in 2021, $9 million in 2020 and $13 million in 2019. M&T’s investment in BLG resulted in cash distributions declared and paid by BLG that are included in “other revenues from operations” of $30 million in 2021, $53 million in 2020 and $37 million in 2019. During 2017, the operating losses of BLG resulted in M&T reducing the carrying value of its investment in BLG to zero. Subsequently, M&T has received cash distributions when declared by BLG that result in the recognition of income by M&T. M&T expects cash distributions from BLG in the future, but the timing and amount of those distributions cannot be estimated. BLG is entitled to receive distributions from its affiliates that provide asset management and other services that are available for distribution to BLG’s owners, including M&T. Information about the 95 Company’s relationship with BLG and its affiliates is included in note 25 of Notes to Financial Statements. Other Expense Other expense aggregated $3.61 billion in 2021, compared with $3.39 billion in 2020 and $3.47 billion in 2019. Included in those amounts are expenses considered to be “nonoperating” in nature consisting of amortization of core deposit and other intangible assets of $10 million, $15 million and $19 million in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively and merger-related expenses of $44 million in 2021.  No merger-related expenses were incurred in 2020 and 2019. Exclusive of those nonoperating expenses, noninterest operating expenses aggregated $3.56 billion in 2021, $3.37 billion in 2020 and $3.45 billion in 2019. The higher level of noninterest operating expenses in 2021 as compared with the prior year reflected increased costs for salaries and employee benefits (predominantly incentive compensation), outside data processing and software, FDIC assessments, and professional services expenses, partially offset by a reduction in the valuation allowance for capitalized mortgage servicing rights as compared to an increase in 2020. Contributing to the lower level of noninterest operating expense in 2020 as compared with 2019 were decreased costs for professional services, legal-related matters, advertising and marketing, and travel and entertainment. Additionally, a $48 million charge was recorded in 2019 to reduce the carrying value of an investment in an asset manager that had been accounted for using the equity method of accounting to its estimated realizable value. Those factors were partially offset by higher costs for salaries and employee benefits, outside data processing and software, increases to the valuation allowance for capitalized residential mortgage servicing rights and $14 million of expenses related to the planned transition of the support for the Company’s retail brokerage and advisory business to the platform of LPL Financial. Salaries and employee benefits expense aggregated $2.05 billion in 2021, compared with $1.95 billion and $1.90 billion in 2020 and 2019, respectively. The higher levels of expenses in 2021 as compared with 2020 reflect the impact of higher incentive compensation, including commissions, as well as merit and other increases for employees. Stock-based compensation totaled $85 million in 2021, compared with $80 million in 2020 and $76 million in 2019. The number of full-time equivalent employees were 17,421 and 17,076 at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, compared with 17,503 at December 31, 2019. The Company provides pension and other postretirement benefits for its employees, including pension, retirement savings and post-retirement benefit plans. Expenses related to such benefits totaled $128 million in 2021, $118 million in 2020 and $76 million in 2019. The amounts recorded in salaries and employee benefits expense and other costs of operations, respectively, from the preceding sentence were as follows: $125 million and $3 million in 2021; $118 million and ($329,000) in 2020; and $98 million and ($22) million in 2019.  The Company sponsors both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans.  Pension benefit expense for those plans was $68 million in 2021, $60 million in 2020 and $31 million in 2019. Components of pension expense include the amortization of net unrecognized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income. Such net unrecognized gains and losses have generally been amortized over the average remaining service periods of active participants in the plan.  If all or substantially all of the plan’s participants are inactive, GAAP provides for the average remaining life expectancy of the participants to be used instead of average remaining service periods. Substantially all of the participants in the Company’s qualified defined benefit pension plan were inactive and, beginning in 2022, the average remaining life expectancy will be utilized prospectively to amortize the net unrecognized gains and losses of the Plan existent at each measurement date. The change is expected to increase the amortization period by approximately sixteen years beginning in 2022 and, accordingly, reduce the amount of amortization of unrecognized losses recorded in the 2022 net periodic pension expense that otherwise would have been recorded by approximately $35 million. 96 Information about the Company’s pension plans, including significant assumptions utilized in completing actuarial calculations for the plans, is included in note 13 of Notes to Financial Statements. The Company’s retirement savings plan (“RSP”) is a defined contribution plan in which eligible employees of the Company may defer up to 50% of qualified compensation via contributions to the plan. RSP expense reflecting the Company’s employer matching contribution totaled $63 million in 2021, $62 million in 2020 and $48 million in 2019. Excluding the nonoperating expense items already noted, nonpersonnel operating expenses were $1.51 billion in 2021, $1.42 billion in 2020 and $1.55 billion in 2019. The increase in such expenses in 2021 as compared with 2020 reflects a rise in expenditures for outside data processing and software, FDIC assessments and professional services, partially offset by a reduction in the valuation allowance for capitalized mortgage servicing rights as compared to an increase in 2020. The decrease in nonpersonnel operating expenses from 2019 to 2020 reflected lower expenditures for professional services, legal-related matters, advertising and marketing, and travel and entertainment.  Additionally, a $48 million charge from the 2019 sale of an investment in an asset manager contributed to the higher expenses in 2019. Those factors were partially offset by higher costs for outside data processing and software, increases to the valuation allowance for capitalized residential mortgage servicing rights and $14 million of expenses related to the planned transition of the support for the Company’s retail brokerage and advisory business to the platform of LPL Financial. During 2019 the Company increased its reserve for legal matters, predominantly related to a subsidiary’s role as trustee of Employee Stock Ownership Plans in its Institutional Client Services business. The Company made contributions to The M&T Charitable Foundation of $28 million and $8 million in 2021 and 2020, respectively. There were no similar contributions in 2019. Income Taxes The provision for income taxes was $596 million in 2021, $416 million in 2020 and $618 million in 2019. The effective tax rates were 24.3% in each of 2021 and 2019 and 23.5% in 2020. The effective tax rate is affected by the level of income earned that is exempt from tax relative to the overall level of pre-tax income, the level of income allocated to the various state and local jurisdictions where the Company operates, because tax rates differ among such jurisdictions, and the impact of any large discrete or infrequently occurring items. The Company’s effective tax rate in future periods will also be affected by any change in income tax laws or regulations and interpretations of income tax regulations that differ from the Company’s interpretations by any of various tax authorities that may examine tax returns filed by M&T or any of its subsidiaries. Information about amounts accrued for uncertain tax positions and a reconciliation of income tax expense to the amount computed by applying the statutory federal income tax rate to pre-tax income is provided in note 14 of Notes to Financial Statements. International Activities Assets and revenues associated with international activities represent less than 1% of the Company’s consolidated assets and revenues. International assets included $197 million and $170 million of loans to foreign borrowers at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. During the second quarter of 2021, the Company introduced a new interest-bearing sweep product (included in savings and interest-bearing deposits) that replaced the Eurodollar sweep product previously recorded as Cayman Islands office deposits.  As a result, there were no outstanding deposits at the Cayman Islands office at December 31, 2021 and the office is closed.  Deposits in the Company’s office in the Cayman Islands aggregated $652 million at December 31, 2020. Loans at M&T Bank’s commercial banking office in Ontario, Canada included in international assets as of December 31, 2021 and 2020 totaled $153 million and $149 million, respectively. Deposits at that office were $32 million at each of 97 December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020 . The Company also offers trust-related services in Europe. Revenues from providing such services during 2021 , 2020 and 2019 were approximately $38 million, $36 million and $32 million, respectively. Liquidity, Market Risk, and Interest Rate Sensitivity As a financial intermediary, the Company is exposed to various risks, including liquidity and market risk. Liquidity refers to the Company’s ability to ensure that sufficient cash flow and liquid assets are available to satisfy current and future obligations, including demands for loans and deposit withdrawals, funding operating costs, and other corporate purposes. Liquidity risk arises whenever the maturities of financial instruments included in assets and liabilities differ. The most significant source of funding for the Company is core deposits, which are generated from a large base of consumer, corporate and institutional customers. That customer base has, over the past several years, become more geographically diverse as a result of expansion of the Company’s businesses. Nevertheless, the Company faces competition in offering products and services from a large array of financial market participants, including banks, thrifts, mutual funds, securities dealers and others. Core deposits financed 90% of the Company’s earning assets at December 31, 2021, compared with 88% at December 31, 2020 and 83% at December 31, 2019. The Company supplements funding provided through core deposits with various short-term and long-term wholesale borrowings, including overnight federal funds purchased, short-term advances from the FHLB of New York, brokered deposits and longer-term borrowings. At December 31, 2021, M&T Bank had short-term and long-term credit facilities with the FHLBs aggregating $16.2 billion. Outstanding borrowings under FHLB credit facilities totaled $2 million at each of December 31, 2021 and 2020. Such borrowings were secured by loans and investment securities. M&T Bank had an available line of credit with the FRB of New York that totaled approximately $13.8 billion at December 31, 2021. The amount of that line is dependent upon the balances of loans and securities pledged as collateral. There were no borrowings outstanding under such line of credit at December 31, 2021 and 2020. Senior notes issued and outstanding totaled $2.4 billion at December 31, 2021 and $2.8 billion at December 31, 2020. On January 25, 2021, $350 million of variable rate senior notes of M&T Bank matured.  In addition, on March 1, 2021, M&T Bank redeemed $500 million of subordinated notes that were due to mature on December 1, 2021. The Company has, from time to time, issued subordinated capital notes and junior subordinated debentures associated with trust preferred securities to provide liquidity and enhance regulatory capital ratios. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the Company’s junior subordinated debentures associated with trust preferred securities have been removed from the definition of Tier 1 capital but, similar to other subordinated capital notes, are considered Tier 2 capital and are includable in total regulatory capital. Information about the Company’s borrowings is included in note 9 of Notes to Financial Statements. The Company has also benefited from the placement of brokered deposits. The Company has brokered savings and interest-bearing checking deposit accounts that aggregated $3.2 billion and $4.5 billion at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Brokered time deposits were not a significant source of funding as of those dates. The Company’s ability to obtain funding from these sources could be negatively impacted should the Company experience a substantial deterioration in its financial condition or its debt ratings, or should the availability of short-term funding become restricted due to a disruption in the financial markets. The Company attempts to quantify such credit-event risk by modeling scenarios that estimate the liquidity impact resulting from a short-term ratings downgrade over various grading levels. Such impact is estimated by attempting to measure the effect on available unsecured lines of credit, available capacity from secured borrowing sources and securitizable assets. Information about the credit ratings 98 of M&T and M&T Bank is presented in table 16. Additional information regarding the terms and maturities of all of the Company’s short-term and long-term borrowings is provided in note 9 of Notes to Financial Statements. In addition to deposits and borrowings, other sources of liquidity include maturities of investment securities and other earning assets, repayments of loans and investment securities, and cash generated from operations, such as fees collected for services. Table 16 DEBT RATINGS Certain customers of the Company obtain financing through the issuance of variable rate demand bonds (“VRDBs”). The VRDBs are generally enhanced by letters of credit provided by M&T Bank. M&T Bank oftentimes acts as remarketing agent for the VRDBs and, at its discretion, may from time-to-time own some of the VRDBs while such instruments are remarketed. When this occurs, the VRDBs are classified as trading account assets in the Company’s consolidated balance sheet. Nevertheless, M&T Bank is not contractually obligated to purchase the VRDBs. The value of VRDBs in the Company’s trading account was not material at December 31, 2021 or December 31, 2020. The total amount of VRDBs outstanding backed by M&T Bank letters of credit was $662 million and $725 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. M&T Bank also serves as remarketing agent for most of those bonds. 99 Table 17 MATURITY DISTRIBUTION OF LOANS AND LEASES(a) The Company enters into contractual obligations in the normal course of business that require future cash payments. The contractual amounts and timing of those payments as of December 31, 2021 are summarized in table 18. Off-balance sheet commitments to customers may impact liquidity, including commitments to extend credit, standby letters of credit, commercial letters of credit, financial guarantees and indemnification contracts, and commitments to sell real estate loans. Because many of these commitments or contracts expire without being funded in whole or in part, the contract amounts are not necessarily indicative of future cash flows. Further discussion of these commitments is provided in note 22 of Notes to Financial Statements. Table 18 summarizes the Company’s other commitments as of December 31, 2021 and the timing of the expiration of such commitments. 100 Table 18 CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND OTHER COMMITMENTS M&T’s primary source of funds to pay for operating expenses, shareholder dividends and treasury stock repurchases has historically been the receipt of dividends from its banking subsidiaries, which are subject to various regulatory limitations. Dividends from any bank subsidiary to M&T are limited by the amount of earnings of the subsidiary in the current year and the two preceding years. For purposes of that test, at December 31, 2021 approximately $1.6 billion was available for payment of dividends to M&T from banking subsidiaries. M&T also may obtain funding through long-term borrowings. Outstanding senior notes of M&T at December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020 were $766 million and $783 million, respectively. Junior subordinated debentures of M&T associated with trust preferred securities outstanding at December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020 totaled $532 million and $528 million, respectively. 101 Table 19 MATURITY AND TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT YIELD OF INVESTMENT SECURITIES 102 Table 20 MATURITY OF TIME DEPOSITS WITH BALANCES OVER $250,000 Management closely monitors the Company’s liquidity position on an ongoing basis for compliance with internal policies and believes that available sources of liquidity are adequate to meet funding needs anticipated in the normal course of business. Management does not anticipate engaging in any activities, either currently or in the long-term, for which adequate funding would not be available and would therefore result in a significant strain on liquidity at either M&T or its subsidiary banks. Market risk is the risk of loss from adverse changes in the market prices and/or interest rates of the Company’s financial instruments. The primary market risk the Company is exposed to is interest rate risk. Interest rate risk arises from the Company’s core banking activities of lending and deposit-taking, because assets and liabilities reprice at different times and by different amounts as interest rates change. As a result, net interest income earned by the Company is subject to the effects of changing interest rates. The Company measures interest rate risk by calculating the variability of net interest income in future periods under various interest rate scenarios using projected balances for earning assets, interest-bearing liabilities and derivatives used to hedge interest rate risk. Management’s philosophy toward interest rate risk management is to limit the variability of net interest income. The balances of financial instruments used in the projections are based on expected growth from forecasted business opportunities, anticipated prepayments of loans and investment securities, and expected maturities of investment securities, loans and deposits. Management uses a “value of equity” model to supplement the modeling technique described above. Those supplemental analyses are based on discounted cash flows associated with on- and off-balance sheet financial instruments. Such analyses are modeled to reflect changes in interest rates and provide management with a long-term interest rate risk metric. The Company has entered into interest rate swap agreements to help manage exposure to interest rate risk. At December 31, 2021, the aggregate notional amount of interest rate swap agreements entered into for interest rate risk management purposes that were currently in effect was $15.0 billion. In addition, the Company has entered into $8.4 billion of forward-starting interest rate swap agreements. Information about interest rate swap agreements entered into for interest rate risk management purposes is included herein under the heading “Net Interest Income/Lending and Funding Activities” and in note 19 of Notes to Financial Statements. The Company’s Asset-Liability Committee, which includes members of senior management, monitors the sensitivity of the Company’s net interest income to changes in interest rates with the aid of a computer model that forecasts net interest income under different interest rate scenarios. In modeling changing interest rates, the Company considers different yield curve shapes that consider both parallel (that is, simultaneous changes in interest rates at each point on the yield curve) and non-parallel (that is, allowing interest rates at points on the yield curve to vary by different amounts) shifts in the yield curve. In utilizing the model, market-implied forward interest rates over the 103 subsequent twelve months are generally used to determine a base interest rate scenario for the net interest income simulation.  That calculated base net interest income is then compared to the income calculated under the varying interest rate scenarios.  The model considers the impact of ongoing lending and deposit-gathering activities, as well as interrelationships in the magnitude and timing of the repricing of financial instruments, including the effect of changing interest rates on expected prepayments and maturities. When deemed prudent, management has taken actions to mitigate exposure to interest rate risk through the use of on- or off-balance sheet financial instruments and intends to do so in the future. Possible actions include, but are not limited to, changes in the pricing of loan and deposit products, modifying the composition of earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and adding to, modifying or terminating existing interest rate swap agreements or other financial instruments used for interest rate risk management purposes. Table 21 displays as of December 31, 2021 and 2020 the estimated impact on net interest income in the base scenario described above resulting from parallel changes in interest rates across repricing categories during the first modeling year. Table 21 SENSITIVITY OF NET INTEREST INCOME TO CHANGES IN INTEREST RATES The Company utilized many assumptions to calculate the impact that changes in interest rates may have on net interest income. The more significant of those assumptions included the rate of prepayments of mortgage-related assets, cash flows from derivative and other financial instruments held for non-trading purposes, loan and deposit volumes and pricing, and deposit maturities. In the scenarios presented, the Company also assumed gradual changes in interest rates during a twelve-month period as compared with the base scenario. In the declining rate scenario, the rate changes may be limited to lesser amounts such that interest rates remain at or above zero on all points of the yield curve.  The assumptions used in interest rate sensitivity modeling are inherently uncertain and, as a result, the Company cannot precisely predict the impact of changes in interest rates on net interest income. Actual results may differ significantly from those presented due to the timing, magnitude and frequency of changes in interest rates and changes in market conditions and interest rate differentials (spreads) between maturity/repricing categories, as well as any actions, such as those previously described, which management may take to counter such changes. The sensitivity of net interest income to changes in interest rates increased as of December 31, 2021 as compared with December 31, 2020 due to the low interest rate environment and composition of the Company’s portfolios of earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, in particular the increased balance of interest-bearing deposits at banks. Table 22 presents cumulative totals of net assets (liabilities) repricing on a contractual basis within the specified time frames, as adjusted for the impact of interest rate swap agreements entered into for interest rate risk management purposes. Management believes that this measure does not appropriately depict interest rate risk since changes in interest rates do not necessarily affect all 104 categories of earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities equally nor, as assumed in the table, on the contractual maturity or repricing date. Furthermore, this static presentation of interest rate risk fails to consider the effect of ongoing lending and deposit gathering activities, projected changes in balance sheet composition or any subsequent interest rate risk management activities the Company is likely to implement. Table 22 CONTRACTUAL REPRICING DATA A significant amount of the Company’s interest-earning assets, interest-bearing liabilities, preferred equity instruments and interest rate swap agreements have contractual repricing terms that reference the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”).  Various regulatory bodies have encouraged banks to transition away from LIBOR as soon as practicable, generally cease entering new contracts that use LIBOR as a reference rate no later than December 31, 2021, and for new contracts entered into before December 31, 2021 to utilize a reference rate other than LIBOR or include robust language that includes a clearly defined alternative reference rate after LIBOR’s discontinuation. Certain tenors of LIBOR have ceased publication at December 31, 2021 and complete cessation of LIBOR publication is expected by June 30, 2023. Effective December 31, 2021, the Company has essentially discontinued entering into new LIBOR-based contracts. The Company established an enterprise-wide LIBOR transition program in 2019, which includes a LIBOR Transition Office with senior management level leadership and dedicated full-time employee staffing. Progress on the LIBOR transition effort is monitored by executive management as well as the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors. At December 31, 2021 the Company had LIBOR-based commercial loans and leases and commercial real estate loans of $37.7 billion and residential mortgage and consumer loans of $1.9 billion outstanding. As of that date, approximately 105 half of such loans either mature before June 30, 2023 or have been amended to include appropriate alternative language to be effective upon cessation of LIBOR publication. Approximately $979 million of borrowings and $850 million of preferred equity instruments reference LIBOR.  The Company’s interest rate swap agreements primarily reference LIBOR.  In October 2020, the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. published the IBOR Fallbacks Supplement (“Supplement”) and the IBOR Fallback Protocol (“Protocol”). The Protocol enables market participants to incorporate certain revisions into their legacy non-cleared derivative trades with other counterparties that also choose to adhere to the Protocol.  M&T adhered to the Protocol in November 2020 and is in the process of remediating its interest rate swap transactions with its end-user customers. With respect to the Company’s cleared interest rate swap agreements that reference LIBOR, clearinghouses have adopted the same relevant Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”) benchmark alternatives of the Supplement and Protocol. As loans mature and new originations occur a larger percentage of the Company’s variable-rate loans are expected to reference SOFR or other indexes, including the Bloomberg Short Term Bank Yield Index (“BSBY”). At December 31, 2021, the Company had approximately $3.6 billion and $55 million of outstanding loan balances that reference SOFR and BSBY, respectively. Additionally, as of December 31, 2021 the Company had $5.0 billion of notional amount of interest rate swap agreements designated as cash flow hedges of commercial real estate loans, including $3.5 billion of forward-starting interest rate swap agreements that become effective in 2022 and 2023, and notional amounts of $1.0 billion of interest rate contracts in the trading account that are referenced to SOFR. The Company’s usage of interest rate swap agreements referenced to SOFR or BSBY is expected to increase in response to the discontinuation of LIBOR. The Company continues to work with its customers and other counterparties to remediate LIBOR-based agreements which expire after June 30, 2023 by incorporating alternative language, negotiating new agreements, or other means. The discontinuation of LIBOR and uncertainty relating to the emergence of one or more alternative benchmark indexes to replace LIBOR could materially impact the Company’s interest rate risk profile and its management thereof. In addition to the effect of interest rates, changes in fair value of the Company’s financial instruments can also result from a lack of trading activity for similar instruments in the financial markets. That impact is most notable on the values assigned to some of the Company’s investment securities. Information about the fair valuation of investment securities is presented in notes 3 and 21 of Notes to Financial Statements. The Company engages in limited trading account activities to meet the financial needs of customers and to fund the Company’s obligations under certain deferred compensation plans. Financial instruments utilized for trading account activities consist predominantly of interest rate contracts, such as interest rate swap agreements, and forward and futures contracts related to foreign currencies. The Company generally mitigates the foreign currency and interest rate risk associated with trading account activities by entering into offsetting trading positions that are also included in the trading account. The fair values of trading account positions associated with interest rate contracts and foreign currency and other option and futures contracts are presented in note 19 of Notes to Financial Statements. The amounts of gross and net trading account positions, as well as the type of trading account activities conducted by the Company, are subject to a well-defined series of potential loss exposure limits established by management and approved by M&T’s Board of Directors. However, as with any non-government guaranteed financial instrument, the Company is exposed to credit risk associated with counterparties to the Company’s trading account activities. The notional amounts of interest rate contracts entered into for trading account purposes totaled $32.6 billion at December 31, 2021 and $37.8 billion at December 31, 2020. The notional amounts of foreign currency and other option and futures contracts entered into for trading account purposes were $1.1 billion and $776 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Although the notional amounts of these contracts are not recorded in the consolidated balance sheet, the unsettled 106 fair values of all financial instruments used for trading account activities are recorded in the consolidated balance sheet. The fair values of all trading account assets and liabilities were $468 million and $83 million, respectively, at December 31, 2021 and $1.1 billion and $117 million, respectively, at December 31, 2020.  The fair value asset and liability amounts at December 31, 2021 have been reduced by contractual settlements of $54 million and $305 million, respectively, and at December 31, 2020 by contractual settlements of $6 million and $806 million, respectively. The lower balance of trading account assets at December 31, 2021 as compared with 2020 was largely the result of decreased values associated with interest rate swap agreements entered into with commercial customers that are not subject to periodic variation margin settlement payments. Included in trading account assets at each of December 31, 2021 and 2020 were $21 million of assets related to deferred compensation plans. Changes in the fair values of such assets are recorded as “trading account and foreign exchange gains” in the consolidated statement of income. Included in “other liabilities” in the consolidated balance sheet at each of December 31, 2021 and 2020 were $24 million of liabilities related to deferred compensation plans. Changes in the balances of such liabilities due to the valuation of allocated investment options to which the liabilities are indexed are recorded in “other costs of operations” in the consolidated statement of income. Also included in trading account assets were investments in mutual funds and other assets that the Company was required to hold under terms of certain non-qualified supplemental retirement and other benefit plans that were assumed by the Company in various acquisitions. Those assets totaled $29 million at each of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020. Given the Company’s policies, limits and positions, management believes that the potential loss exposure to the Company resulting from market risk associated with trading account activities was not material, however, as previously noted, the Company is exposed to credit risk associated with counterparties to transactions related to the Company’s trading account activities. Additional information about the Company’s use of derivative financial instruments in its trading account activities is included in note 19 of Notes to Financial Statements. Capital Shareholders’ equity was $17.9 billion at December 31, 2021 and represented 11.54% of total assets, compared with $16.2 billion or 11.35% at December 31, 2020 and $15.7 billion or 13.11% at December 31, 2019. Included in shareholders’ equity was preferred stock with financial statement carrying values of $1.75 billion at December 31, 2021, compared with $1.25 billion at each of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019. On August 17, 2021, M&T issued 50,000 shares of Series I Perpetual Fixed-Rate Reset Non-cumulative Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 and liquidation preference of $10,000 per share. Through August 31, 2026 holders of the Series I preferred stock are entitled to receive, only when, as and if declared by M&T’s Board of Directors, non-cumulative cash dividends at an annual rate of 3.5%, payable semiannually in arrears. Subsequent to August 31, 2026 holders will be entitled to receive, only when, as and if declared by M&T’s Board of Directors, non-cumulative cash dividends at an annual rate of the five-year U.S. Treasury Rate plus 2.679%, payable semiannually in arrears.  The Series I preferred stock may be redeemed at M&T’s option, in whole or in part, on any dividend payment date on or after September 1, 2026 or, in whole but not in part, at any time within 90 days following a regulatory capital treatment event whereby the full liquidation value of the shares no longer qualifies as “additional Tier 1 capital”.  On July 30, 2019, M&T issued 40,000 shares of Series G Perpetual Fixed-Rate Reset Non-cumulative Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share and liquidation preference of $10,000 per share. Through July 31, 2024 holders of the Series G preferred stock are entitled to receive, only when, as and if declared by M&T’s Board of Directors, non-cumulative cash dividends at an annual rate of 5.0%, payable semiannually in arrears. Subsequent to July 31, 2024 holders will be entitled to receive, only when, as and if declared by M&T’s Board of Directors, non-cumulative cash dividends at an annual rate of the five-year U.S. 107 Treasury Rate plus 3.174%, payable semiannually in arrears.  The Series G preferred stock may be redeemed at M&T’s option, in whole or in part, on any dividend payment date on or after August 1, 2024 or, in whole but not in part, at any time within 90 days following a regulatory capital treatment event whereby the full liquidation value of the shares no longer qualifies as “additional Tier 1 capital.” On August 30, 2019 M&T redeemed the 230,000 shares of the Series A and 151,500 shares of the Series C Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, $1,000 liquidation preference per share, having received the approval of the Federal Reserve to redeem such shares after issuing the Series G preferred stock. Further information concerning M&T’s preferred stock can be found in note 10 of Notes to Financial Statements. Common shareholders’ equity totaled $16.2 billion, or $125.51 per share, at December 31, 2021, compared with $14.9 billion, or $116.39 per share, at December 31, 2020 and $14.5 billion, or $110.78 per share, at December 31, 2019. Tangible equity per common share, which excludes goodwill and core deposit and other intangible assets and applicable deferred tax balances, was $89.80 at December 31, 2021, compared with $80.52 and $75.44 at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The Company’s ratio of tangible common equity to tangible assets was 7.68% at December 31, 2021, compared with 7.49% and 8.55% at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Reconciliations of total common shareholders’ equity and tangible common equity and total assets and tangible assets as of December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 are presented in table 2. During 2021, 2020 and 2019, the ratio of average total shareholders’ equity to average total assets was 11.08%, 11.80% and 13.14%, respectively. The ratio of average common shareholders’ equity to average total assets was 10.13%, 10.88% and 12.08% in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Shareholders’ equity reflects accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, which includes the net after-tax impact of unrealized gains or losses on investment securities classified as available for sale, remaining unrealized losses on held-to-maturity securities transferred from available for sale that have not yet been amortized, gains or losses associated with interest rate swap agreements designated as cash flow hedges, foreign currency translation adjustments and adjustments to reflect the funded status of defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans. Net unrealized gains on investment securities reflected in shareholders’ equity, net of applicable tax effect, were $78 million, or $.60 per common share, at December 31, 2021, $145 million, or $1.13 per common share, at December 31, 2020, and $37 million, or $.29 per common share, at December 31, 2019 . Changes in unrealized gains and losses on investment securities are predominantly reflective of the impact of changes in interest rates on the values of such securities. Information about unrealized gains and losses as of December 31, 2021 and 2020 is included in note 3 of Notes to Financial Statements. Reflected in the carrying amount of available-for-sale investment securities at December 31, 2021 were pre-tax effect unrealized gains of $115 million on securities with an amortized cost of $3.1 billion and pre-tax effect unrealized losses of $9 million on securities with an amortized cost of $709 million.  Information concerning the Company’s fair valuations of investment securities is provided in notes 3 and 21 of Notes to Financial Statements. Each reporting period the Company reviews its available-for-sale investment securities for declines in value that might be indicative of credit-related losses through an analysis of the creditworthiness of the issuer or the credit performance of the underlying collateral supporting the bond. If the Company does not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of a debt security a credit loss is recognized in the consolidated statement of income. A loss is also recognized if the Company intends to sell a bond or it more likely than not will be required to sell a bond before recovery of the amortized cost basis. As of December 31, 2021, based on a review of each of the securities in the available-for-sale investment securities portfolio, the Company concluded that it expected to realize the amortized cost basis of each security. As of December 31, 2021, the Company did not intend to sell nor is it anticipated that it would be required to sell any securities for which fair value was less than the 108 amortized cost basis of the security. The Company intends to continue to closely monitor the performance of its securities because changes in their underlying credit performance or other events could cause the amortized cost basis of those securities to become uncollectable. On January 1, 2020 the Company adopted amended accounting guidance that requires investment securities held to maturity to be presented at their net carrying value that is expected to be collected over their contractual term. The Company estimated no material allowance for credit losses for its investment securities classified as held-to-maturity at December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020 as the substantial majority of such investment securities were obligations backed by the U.S. government or its agencies. The Company assessed the potential for expected credit losses on privately issued mortgage-backed securities in the held-to-maturity portfolio by performing internal modeling to estimate bond-specific cash flows considering recent performance of the mortgage loan collateral and utilizing assumptions about future defaults and loss severity. These bond-specific cash flows also reflect the placement of the bond in the overall securitization structure and the remaining subordination levels. In total, at December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Company had in its held-to-maturity portfolio privately issued mortgage-backed securities with an amortized cost basis of $62 million and $77 million, respectively, and a fair value of $57 million and $70 million, respectively. At December 31, 2021, 81% of the mortgage-backed securities were in the most senior tranche of the securitization structure. The mortgage-backed securities are generally collateralized by residential and small-balance commercial real estate loans originated between 2004 and 2008. After considering the repayment structure and estimated future collateral cash flows of each individual bond, the Company has concluded that as of December 31, 2021, it expected to recover the amortized cost basis of those privately issued mortgage-backed securities. Nevertheless, it is possible that adverse changes in the estimated future performance of mortgage loan collateral underlying such securities could impact the Company’s conclusions. Adjustments to reflect the funded status of defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans, net of applicable tax effect, reduced accumulated other comprehensive income by $267 million, or $2.08 per common share, at December 31, 2021, $481 million, or $3.75 per common share, at December 31, 2020 and $342 million, or $2.62 per common share, at December 31, 2019. Information about the funded status of the Company’s pension and other postretirement benefit plans is included in note 13 of Notes to Financial Statements. On January 20, 2021, M&T’s Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase plan to repurchase up to $800 million of shares of M&T’s common stock subject to all applicable regulatory limitations.  There were no repurchases pursuant to that authorization during 2021. Pursuant to previously approved capital plans and authorizations by M&T’s Board of Directors, M&T repurchased 2,577,000 common shares for $374 million in 2020 and 8,257,000 common shares for $1.3 billion during 2019. During the fourth quarter of 2021, M&T’s Board of Directors authorized an increase in the quarterly common stock dividend to $1.20 per common share from the previous rate of $1.10 per common share. During 2019, M&T’s Board of Directors authorized an increase in the quarterly common stock dividend to $1.10 per common share in the fourth quarter from the previous rate of $1.00 per common share.  Cash dividends declared on M&T’s common stock totaled $584 million in 2021, compared with $569 million and $552 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively. Dividends per common share totaled $4.50 in 2021, compared with $4.40 and $4.10 in 2020 and 2019, respectively.  Dividends of $73 million in 2021, $68 million in 2020 and $72 million in 2019 were declared on preferred stock in accordance with the terms of each series. 109 M&T and its subsidiary banks are required to comply with applicable capital adequacy standards established by the federal banking agencies. Pursuant to those regulations, the minimum capital ratios are as follows: Capital regulations require buffers in addition to the minimum risk-based capital ratios noted above. M&T is subject to a stress capital buffer requirement that is determined through the Federal Reserve’s supervisory stress tests and M&T’s bank subsidiaries are subject to a capital conservation buffer requirement. The buffer requirement for each entity is currently 2.5% of risk-weighted assets and must be composed entirely of CET1. The federal bank regulatory agencies have issued rules that allow banks and bank holding companies to phase-in the impact of adopting the expected credit loss accounting model on regulatory capital. Those rules allow banks and bank holding companies to delay for two years the day one impact on retained earnings of adopting the expected loss accounting standard and 25% of the cumulative change in the reported allowance for credit losses subsequent to the initial adoption, followed by a three-year transition period. M&T and its subsidiary banks adopted these rules and the impact is reflected in regulatory capital ratios as of December 31, 2021. The regulatory capital amounts and ratios of M&T and its bank subsidiaries as of December 31, 2021 are presented in note 24 of Notes to Financial Statements.  A detailed discussion of the regulatory capital rules is included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K under the heading “Capital Requirements.” The Company is subject to the comprehensive regulatory framework applicable to bank and financial holding companies and their subsidiaries, which includes examinations by a number of regulators. Regulation of financial institutions such as M&T and its subsidiaries is intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the Deposit Insurance Fund of the FDIC and the banking and financial system as a whole, and generally is not intended for the protection of shareholders, investors or creditors other than insured depositors. Changes in laws, regulations and regulatory policies applicable to the Company’s operations can increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities or affect the competitive environment in which the Company operates, all of which could have a material effect on the business, financial condition or results of operations of the Company and in M&T’s ability to pay dividends. For additional information concerning this comprehensive regulatory framework, refer to Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K. Fourth Quarter Results Net income in the fourth quarter of 2021 was $458 million, compared with $471 million in the year-earlier quarter. Diluted and basic earnings per common share were each $3.37 in the final 2021 quarter, compared with diluted and basic earnings per common share of $3.52 in the corresponding quarter of 2020.  The annualized rates of return on average assets and average common shareholders’ equity for the final quarter of 2021 were 1.15% and 10.91%, respectively, compared with 1.30% and 12.07%, respectively, in the corresponding quarter of 2020. Net operating income during 2021’s fourth quarter was $475 million, compared with $473 million in the year-earlier quarter. Diluted net operating earnings per common share were $3.50 and $3.54 in the fourth quarters of 2021 and 2020, respectively. The annualized net operating returns on 110 average tangible assets and average tangible common equity in the final three months of 2021 were 1.23% and 15.98%, respectively, compared with 1.35% and 17.53%, respectively, in the similar 2020 period. Reconciliations of GAAP results with non-GAAP results for the quarterly periods of 2021 and 2020 are provided in table 24. Taxable-equivalent net interest income aggregated $937 million in the final quarter of 2021, compared with $993 million in the year-earlier period. That decline was attributable to lower average outstanding loan balances and a reduced net interest margin. Reflecting the impact of persistently low market interest rates and increased holdings of low-yielding balances at the FRB of New York, the net interest margin narrowed 42 basis points to 2.58% in the fourth quarter of 2021 from 3.00% in the final three months of 2020. A verage earning assets were $131.9 billion in the final quarter of 2020 and $144.4 billion in 2021’s fourth quarter. The $12.5 billion increase in average earning assets was driven by a $22.1 billion rise in low-yielding deposit balances at the FRB of New York and other banks, partially offset by a $5.4 billion reduction in average outstanding loans. Average balances of commercial loans and leases were $22.3 billion in the recent quarter, down $5.4 billion or 19% from $27.7 billion in the fourth quarter of 2020.  That decline was largely the result of decreased average balances of PPP loans, due to loan forgiveness by the Small Business Administration, lower dealer floor plan balances, reflecting automobile production and inventory issues experienced by the industry, and subdued loan demand by commercial customers, in general. PPP loans averaged $1.6 billion in 2021’s final quarter, compared with $6.2 billion in the year-earlier quarter. Average commercial real estate loan balances aggregated $36.7 billion in the final quarter of 2021, down $990 million or 3% from $37.7 billion in the year-earlier quarter. Included in those totals were average balances of loans held for sale of $535 million in the final three months of 2021, compared with $307 million in the corresponding period of 2020. Average residential real estate loan balances decreased $471 million to $16.3 billion in the fourth quarter of 2021 from $16.8 billion in the year-earlier quarter, reflecting ongoing repayments of loans obtained in the acquisition of Hudson City. Also contributing to the decrease were loans held for sale that averaged $485 million and $645 million in the final quarters of 2021 and 2020, respectively. Consumer loans averaged $17.9 billion in the last three months of 2021, $1.4 billion or 9% higher than in the year-earlier quarter. That increase resulted from a rise in average balances of recreational finance loans of $1.0 billion and automobile loans of $624 million. The net interest spread narrowed in the fourth quarter of 2021 to 2.52%, down 38 basis points from 2.90% in the corresponding quarter of 2020. The yield on earning assets in the last three months of 2021 was 2.64%, down 51 basis points from the year-earlier quarter.  The rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities in the 2021’s final quarter was .12%, down 13 basis points from .25% in the similar quarter of 2020. The contribution of net interest-free funds to the Company’s net interest margin was .06% and .10% in the fourth quarters of 2021 and 2020, respectively. As a result, the Company’s net interest margin narrowed to 2.58% in the fourth quarter of 2021 from 3.00% in the year-earlier period. A recapture of provision for credit losses of $15 million was recorded for the quarter ended December 31, 2021, compared with a $75 million provision for credit losses in the year-earlier period. Net loan charge-offs were $31 million in the last three months of 2021, representing an annualized .13% of average loans and leases outstanding, compared with $97 million or .39% during the similar 2020 period. Net charge-offs in the fourth quarters of 2021 and 2020 included: net charge-offs of commercial loans of $25 million in 2021 and $67 million in 2020; net recoveries of commercial real estate loans of $7 million in 2021 compared with net charge-offs of $12 million in 2020; net charge-offs of residential real estate loans of $2 million in 2021 and net recoveries of $1 million in 2020; and net charge-offs of consumer loans of $11 million in 2021 and $19 million in 2020. 111 Other income rose to $579 million in the fourth quarter of 2021 from $551 million in the similar 2020 period. The increased level in the recent quarter resulted largely from higher trust income, service charges on deposit accounts and brokerage services income. Other expense totaled $928 million during the recent quarter, compared with $845 million in the final quarter of 2020. Included in such amounts are expenses considered to be “nonoperating” in nature consisting of amortization of core deposit and other intangible assets of $2 million and $3 million during the quarters ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively and merger-related expenses of $21 million in fourth quarter of 2021. No merger-related expenses were incurred in the year-earlier quarter. Exclusive of those nonoperating expenses, noninterest operating expenses were $904 million in the fourth quarter of 2021 and $842 million in the corresponding 2020 quarter. Factors contributing to the higher level of expenses in the recent quarter as compared with the fourth quarter of 2020 were predominantly related to increased costs for salaries and employee benefits (including higher incentive compensation), outside data processing and software, and professional services. The Company’s efficiency ratio during the final quarters of 2021 and 2020 was 59.7% and 54.6%, respectively. Table 24 includes a reconciliation of other expense to noninterest operating expense and the calculation of the efficiency ratio for each of the quarters of 2021 and 2020. Segment Information In accordance with GAAP, the Company’s reportable segments have been determined based upon its internal profitability reporting system, which is organized by strategic business unit. Certain strategic business units have been combined for segment information reporting purposes where the nature of the products and services, the type of customer, and the distribution of those products and services are similar. The reportable segments are Business Banking, Commercial Banking, Commercial Real Estate, Discretionary Portfolio, Residential Mortgage Banking and Retail Banking. The financial information of the Company’s segments was compiled utilizing the accounting policies described in note 23 of Notes to Financial Statements. The management accounting policies and processes utilized in compiling segment financial information are highly subjective and, unlike financial accounting, are not based on authoritative guidance similar to GAAP. As a result, reported segments and the financial information of the reported segments are not necessarily comparable with similar information reported by other financial institutions.  Furthermore, changes in management structure or allocation methodologies and procedures may result in changes in reported segment financial data. Financial information about the Company’s segments is presented in note 23 of Notes to Financial Statements. The Business Banking segment provides a wide range of services to small businesses and professionals within markets served by the Company through the Company’s branch network, business banking centers and other delivery channels such as telephone banking, Internet banking and automated teller machines. Services and products offered by this segment include various business loans and leases, including loans guaranteed by the Small Business Administration, business credit cards, deposit products, and financial services such as cash management, payroll and direct deposit, merchant credit card and letters of credit. Net income of the Business Banking segment aggregated $213 million in 2021, up 34% from $159 million in 2020. Higher net interest income of $56 million, a $15 million decline in the provision for credit losses and higher merchant discount and credit card fees of $12 million in 2021 were partially offset by higher personnel-related costs of $11 million. The higher net interest income reflected a 127 basis point widening of the net interest margin on loans and higher average deposit balances of $3.3 billion, partially offset by a 57 basis point narrowing of the net interest margin on deposits. The widening margin on loans resulted from a higher level of PPP fee income resulting from the forgiveness of loans by the SBA. The increase in average deposits resulted from a continued desire by the customers of the Business Banking segment 112 to maintain liquidity during the pandemic and amid the low interest rate environment. This segment recorded net income of $168 million in 2019. The 6% decline in 2020 as compared with 2019 resulted from a $10 million decrease in service charges on deposit accounts, a $9 million increase in the provision for credit losses, due largely to higher net charge-offs, and higher personnel-related costs of $7 million. Those unfavorable factors were partially offset by an $11 million increase in net interest income. The growth in net interest income reflected an increase in average outstanding deposit and loan balances of $3.0 billion and $2.4 billion, respectively, partially offset by a narrowing of the net interest margin on deposits and loans of 89 basis points and 17 basis points, respectively. The Commercial Banking segment provides a wide range of credit products and banking services for middle-market and large commercial customers, mainly within the markets served by the Company. Services provided by this segment include commercial lending and leasing, letters of credit, deposit products, and cash management services. The Commercial Banking segment recorded net income of $494 million in 2021, compared with $508 million in 2020.  The most significant factors contributing to the 3% decline in net income from 2020 to 2021 included a higher provision for credit losses of $28 million, an increase of $13 million in centrally allocated costs associated with data processing, risk management and other support services provided to the Commercial Banking segment, and a $10 million decrease in net interest income. The impact of those items on net income was partially offset by higher letter of credit and other credit-related fees of $22 million and higher merchant discount and credit card fees of $13 million. The decrease in net interest income reflected lower average outstanding loan balances of $1.8 billion and a 52 basis point narrowing of the net interest margin on deposits offset, in part, by a widening of the net interest margin on loans of 22 basis points and higher average deposit balances of $5.4 billion. Net income for the Commercial Banking segment totaled $520 million in 2019.  The decline in net income in 2020 from 2019 was predominantly driven by a $48 million increase in the provision for credit losses, due to higher loan balances and net charge-offs, and a $9 million write-down of equipment in 2020 that was leased to customers. Offsetting the noted unfavorable factors were a $35 million increase in net interest income and an $11 million decrease in centrally-allocated costs associated with data processing, risk management and other support services provided to the Commercial Banking segment. The increased net interest income reflected higher average outstanding deposit and loan balances of $6.2 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively, partially offset by an 84 basis point narrowing of the net interest margin on deposits. The Commercial Real Estate segment provides credit and deposit services to its customers. Commercial real estate loans may be secured by apartment/multifamily buildings, office, retail and industrial space or other types of collateral. Activities of this segment also include the origination, sales and servicing of commercial real estate loans through the Fannie Mae DUS program and other programs.  Commercial real estate loans held for sale are included in this segment.  Net income for the Commercial Real Estate segment was $372 million in 2021, compared with $382 million in 2020.  The $10 million, or 2%, decrease was primarily attributable to a $30 million decline in net interest income, reflecting a 58 basis point narrowing of the net interest margin on deposits and lower average loan balances of $237 million.  Additionally, lower trading account and foreign exchange gains of $12 million, resulting from decreased activity related to interest rate swap agreements executed on behalf of commercial customers, a $7 million increase in the amortization of capitalized commercial mortgage servicing rights, a $7 million increase in centrally-allocated costs associated with data processing, risk management and other support services provided to the Commercial Real Estate segment and higher FDIC assessments and salaries and employee benefits of $6 million each were partially offset by a $40 million decrease in the provision for credit losses and a $17 million increase in commercial mortgage servicing income. Net income for this segment decreased 21% in 2020 from $486 million in 2019. That decline resulted from a $106 million rise in the provision for 113 credit losses, due to higher loan balances and net charge-offs, a decline in net interest income of $19 million, higher salaries and employee benefits expense of $11 million, largely reflecting increased incentive compensation costs, and lower trading account and foreign exchange gains of $9 million, resulting from decreased activity related to interest rate swap agreements executed on behalf of customers. Partially offsetting those unfavorable factors was a $10 million rise in commercial mortgage banking revenues, due in part to wider margins on loans originated for sale. The lower net interest income was largely attributable to a narrowing of the net interest margin on deposits and loans of 76 basis points and 14 basis points, respectively, partially offset by higher average outstanding loan balances of $1.7 billion. The Discretionary Portfolio segment includes investment and trading account securities, residential real estate loans and other assets, short-term and long-term borrowed funds, brokered deposits, and, through June 2021, Cayman Islands office deposits.  This segment also provides foreign exchange services to customers. Net income of the Discretionary Portfolio segment aggregated $289 million in 2021 and $327 million in 2020.  The 12% decline in the 2021’s net income as compared with 2020 reflects a $21 million increase in intersegment fees related to the transfer of residential mortgage loans to the Discretionary Portfolio segment from the Residential Mortgage Banking segment, a $12 million decrease in the value of marketable equity securities, and an $8 million increase in centrally-allocated costs associated with data processing, risk management and other support services provided to the Discretionary Portfolio segment. The Discretionary Portfolio segment recorded net income $144 million in 2019. The significant increase to $327 million in 2020 was driven by a $277 million rise in net interest income, reflecting additional income from interest rate swap agreements utilized as part of the Company’s management of interest rate risk. Partially offsetting that factor were valuation losses associated with marketable equity securities (compared with gains in the 2019 period) representing a change of $25 million. The Residential Mortgage Banking segment originates and services residential mortgage loans and sells substantially all of those loans in the secondary market to investors or to the Discretionary Portfolio segment.  The Company periodically purchases the rights to service loans and also sub-services residential real estate loans for others. Residential real estate loans held for sale are included in this segment.  Income for the Residential Mortgage Banking segment increased 29% to $173 million in 2021 from $134 million in 2020. That year-over-year increase was attributable to higher net interest income of $40 million, reflecting higher average loan balances of $1.3 billion, and increased revenues associated with servicing and sub-servicing residential real estate loans (including intersegment revenues) of $9 million. The Residential Mortgage Banking segment’s net income rose 85% to $134 million in 2020 from $72 million in 2019. That improvement resulted from a $131 million increase in revenues associated with mortgage origination and sales activities (including intersegment revenues) and higher net interest income of $33 million, reflecting higher average outstanding balances of deposits and loans of $1.1 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively. Offsetting those favorable factors were higher servicing-related costs (including intersegment costs and changes to the valuation allowance for capitalized residential mortgage servicing rights) of $37 million, higher personnel-related costs of $22 million, reflecting increased headcount and higher commissions, lower revenues of $17 million associated with servicing and sub-servicing residential real estate loans (including intersegment revenues), and a $14 million rise in centrally-allocated costs associated with data processing, risk management and other support services provided to the Residential Mortgage Banking segment. The Retail Banking segment offers a variety of services to consumers through several delivery channels which include branch offices, automated teller machines, telephone banking and Internet banking. The Company has branch offices in New York State, Maryland, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Connecticut, Virginia, West Virginia and the District of Columbia. Credit services offered by this segment include consumer installment loans, automobile and recreational finance loans 114 (originated both directly and indirectly through dealers), home equity loans and lines of credit, and credit cards. The segment also offers to its customers deposit products, including demand, savings and time accounts, investment products, including mutual funds and annuities and other services.  Retail Banking segment net income aggregated $341 million in 2021 compared with $365 million in 2020. Factors contributing to the decline in net income in 2021 included a decrease of $78 million in net interest income and increased centrally-allocated costs, largely associated with data processing, risk management and other support services provided to the Retail Banking segment. The net interest income decline reflected a narrowing of the net interest margin on deposits of 49 basis points, partially offset by higher average outstanding balances of deposits and loans of $5.1 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. The unfavorable factors were partially offset by a $53 million decrease in the provision for credit losses, a $22 million decrease in personnel-related costs (reflecting lower staffing levels), a $20 million rise in service charges on deposit accounts and an $8 million increase in merchant discount and credit card fees. Net income for the Retail Banking segment was $365 million in 2020, down 31% from $528 million in 2019. That decrease was predominantly attributable to a $185 million decline in net interest income, reflecting a 74 basis point narrowing of the net interest margin on deposits, partially offset by higher average outstanding deposit and loan balances of $2.4 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively, and a $51 million decrease in consumer service charges on deposit accounts.  The lower consumer service charges reflect fee waivers and lower transaction activity as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Those unfavorable factors were offset, in part, by a $17 million decrease in advertising and marketing expenses due to reduced activities related to the pandemic and a $14 million decline in the provision for credit losses. The “All Other” category reflects other activities of the Company that are not directly attributable to the reported segments.  Reflected in this category are the amortization of core deposit and other intangible assets from the acquisitions of financial institutions, distributions from BLG, merger-related expenses related to acquisitions (when incurred) and the net impact of the Company’s allocation methodologies for internal transfers for funding charges and credits associated with the earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities of the Company’s reportable segments and the provision for credit losses.  The “All Other” category also includes trust income of the Company that reflects the ICS and WAS business activities.  The various components of the “All Other” category resulted in a net loss of $24 million and $523 million in 2021 and 2020, respectively. As compared with 2020, the lower net loss in 2021 resulted from a $795 million decrease in the provision for credit losses, the favorable impact from the Company’s allocation methodologies for internal transfers for funding charges and credits associated with earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities of the Company’s reportable segments, and increased trust income. Those favorable factors were partially offset by higher professional services expenses and increased personnel-related costs. The net loss in 2020 as compared with 2019’s net income of $11 million resulted from a $476 million increase in the provision for credit losses, the unfavorable impact from the Company’s allocation methodologies for internal transfers for funding charges and credits associated with earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities of the Company’s reportable segments, and a $29 million increase in outside data processing and software costs. Those unfavorable factors were partially offset by a $112 million decrease in professional and other outside services, a $49 million decrease in accruals for legal matters, the impact of a $48 million charge from the sale of an affiliated asset manager during 2019, higher trust income of $29 million, and increased income from BLG of $16 million. Recent Accounting Developments A discussion of recent accounting developments is included in note 27 of Notes to Financial Statements. 115 Forward-Looking Statements Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and other sections of this annual report contain forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any statement that does not describe historical or current facts is a forward-looking statement, including statements that are based on current expectations, estimates and projections about the Company’s business, management’s beliefs and assumptions made by management. Statements regarding the potential effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Company’s business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations may constitute forward-looking statements and are subject to the risk that the actual effects may differ, possibly materially, from what is reflected in those forward-looking statements due to factors and future developments that are uncertain, unpredictable and in many cases beyond the Company’s control, including the scope and duration of the pandemic, actions taken by governmental authorities in response to the pandemic, and the direct and indirect impact of the pandemic on customers, clients, third parties and the Company. Statements regarding the Company’s expectations or predictions regarding the proposed transaction between M&T and People’s United also are forward-looking statements, including statements regarding the expected timing, completion and effects of the proposed transaction as well as M&T’s and People’s United’s expected financial results, prospects, targets, goals and outlook. M&T provides further detail regarding the risks and uncertainties related to the proposed transaction in its public filings, including in the “Risk Factors” section of this annual report. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “target,” “estimate,” “continue,” “positions,” “prospects” or “potential,” by future conditional verbs such as “will,” “would,” “should,” “could,” or “may,” or by variations of such words or by similar expressions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions (“Future Factors”) which are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in such forward-looking statements. Future factors include risks, predictions and uncertainties relating to: the proposed transaction between M&T and People’s United, including the factors that are described in the “Risk Factors” section of this annual report; the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic; changes in interest rates, spreads on earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and interest rate sensitivity; prepayment speeds, loan originations, credit losses and market values on loans, collateral securing loans, and other assets; sources of liquidity; common shares outstanding; common stock price volatility; fair value of and number of stock-based compensation awards to be issued in future periods; the impact of changes in market values on trust-related revenues; legislation and regulations affecting the financial services industry, and/or M&T and its subsidiaries individually or collectively, including tax policy; regulatory supervision and oversight, including monetary policy and capital requirements; changes in accounting policies or procedures as may be required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, regulatory agencies or legislation; increasing price, product and service competition by competitors, including new entrants; rapid technological developments and changes; the ability to continue to introduce competitive new products and services on a timely, cost-effective basis; the mix of products and services; containing costs and expenses; governmental and public policy changes; protection and validity of intellectual property rights; reliance on large customers; technological, implementation and cost/financial risks in large, multi-year contracts; the outcome of pending and future litigation and governmental proceedings, including tax-related examinations and other matters; continued availability of financing; financial resources in the amounts, at the times and on the terms required to support M&T and its subsidiaries' future businesses; and material differences in the actual financial results of merger, acquisition and investment activities compared with M&T's 116 initial expectations, including the full realization of anticipated cost savings and revenue enhancements. These are representative of the Future Factors that could affect the outcome of the forward-looking statements.  In addition, such statements could be affected by general industry and market conditions and growth rates, general economic and political conditions, either nationally or in the states in which M&T and its subsidiaries do business, including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations, changes and trends in the securities markets, and other Future Factors. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and the Company assumes no duty to update forward-looking statements. 117 Table 23 QUARTERLY TRENDS 118 Table 24 RECONCILIATION OF QUARTERLY GAAP TO NON-GAAP MEASURES 119