********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Risks relating to our business If we fail to retain existing users or add new users, our revenue, financial results, and business may be significantly harmed. Our financial performance has been and will continue to be significantly determined by our success in adding and retaining users of our services. In the past we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in the size of our user base in one or more markets from time to time, particularly in markets where we have achieved higher penetration rates. The size of our user base is also impacted by a number of other factors, including competitive products and services and global and regional business, macroeconomic, and geopolitical conditions. For example, wars in the Middle East and Ukraine have led to reduced supply as well as the decision to suspend our services in Russia. Further, if people do not perceive our services to be useful, we may not be able to attract or retain users. In recent years, some users, particularly younger generations, have shown a decreased appetite for our services and those of our competitors due potentially to a number of factors. With each new generation of users, expectations of our services change and user behaviors and priorities shift. As a result, we may need to further leverage our existing capabilities or advances in technologies like artificial intelligence (“AI”), or adopt new technologies, to improve our existing services or introduce new services in order to better satisfy existing users and to expand our penetration of what continues to be a large available new user market. However, there can be no assurances that further implementation of technologies like AI will enhance our services or be beneficial to our business and the introduction of new features or services to our existing services may have unintended consequences on our ecosystem, which could lead to fluctuations in the size of our user base. Additionally, in 2023 we began consolidating some of our legacy brands’ platforms in order to decrease operating costs, which may result in changes to the user experience for some of our brands that some existing users may perceive negatively. If we are unable to maintain or increase the size of our user base, our revenue and other financial results may be adversely affected. Further, as the size of our user base fluctuates in one or more markets from time to time, we may become increasingly dependent on our ability to maintain or increase levels of monetization in order to grow revenue. Any significant decrease in user retention or growth could render our services less attractive to users, which is likely to have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The industry for social connection apps is competitive, with low switching costs and a consistent stream of new services and entrants, and innovation by our competitors may disrupt our business. The industry for social connection apps is competitive, with a consistent stream of new services and entrants. Some of our competitors may enjoy better competitive positions in certain geographical regions, user demographics, or other key areas that we currently serve or may serve in the future. These advantages could enable these competitors to offer services that are more appealing to users and potential users than our services or to respond more quickly and/or cost-effectively than us to new or changing opportunities. In addition, within the industry for social connection apps generally, costs for consumers to switch between services are low, and consumers have a propensity to try new approaches to connecting with people and to use multiple services at the same time. As a result, new services, entrants, and business models are likely to continue to emerge. It is possible that a new service could gain rapid scale at the expense of existing brands through harnessing a new technology, such as generative AI, or a new or existing distribution channel, creating a new or different approach to connecting people, or some other means. We may need to respond by introducing new services or features, which we may not do successfully. If we do not sufficiently innovate to provide new, or improve upon existing, services that our users or prospective users find appealing, we may be unable to continue to attract new users or continue to appeal to existing users in a sufficient manner. Potential competitors include larger companies that could devote greater resources to the promotion or marketing of their services, take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily, or develop and expand their services more quickly than we do. Potential competitors also include established social media companies that may develop features or services that may compete with ours or operators of mobile operating 13 systems and app stores. For example, Facebook offers a dating feature on its platform, which it rolled out globally several years ago and has grown dramatically in size supported by Facebook’s massive worldwide user footprint. These social media and mobile platform competitors could use strong or dominant positions in one or more markets, coupled with ready access to existing large pools of potential users and personal information regarding those users, to gain competitive advantages over us, including by offering different features or services that users may prefer or offering their services to users at no charge, which may enable them to acquire and engage users at the expense of our user growth or engagement. If we are not able to compete effectively against current or future competitors as well as other services that may emerge, or if our decisions regarding where to focus our investments are not successful long-term, the size and level of engagement of our user base may decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The limited operating history of our newer brands and services makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects. We seek to tailor each of our brands and services to meet the preferences of specific geographies, demographics, and other communities of users. Building a given brand or service is generally an iterative process that occurs over a meaningful period of time and involves considerable resources and expenditures. Although certain of our newer brands and services have experienced significant growth over relatively short periods of time, such as at our Hinge brand over recent years, the historical growth rates of these brands and services may not be an indication of future growth rates for such services or our newer brands and services generally. We have encountered, and may continue to encounter, risks and difficulties as we build our newer brands and services. The failure to successfully scale these brands and services and address these risks and difficulties could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our growth and profitability rely, in part, on our ability to attract and retain users through cost-effective marketing efforts. Any failure in those efforts could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Attracting and retaining users for our services involve considerable expenditures for online and offline marketing. Historically, we have had to increase our marketing expenditures over time in order to attract and retain users and sustain our growth. For example, in 2023 Tinder launched its first-ever comprehensive global marketing campaign in order to help sustain its growth and attract new users. Evolving consumer behavior can affect the availability of profitable marketing opportunities. For example, as traditional television viewership declines and as consumers spend more time on mobile devices rather than desktop computers, the reach of many of our traditional advertising channels continues to contract. Similarly, as consumers communicate less via email and more via text messaging, messaging apps, and other virtual means, the reach of email campaigns designed to attract new and repeat users (and retain current users) for our services is adversely impacted. Additionally, changes by large tech platforms, such as Apple and Google, to advertisers’ ability to access and use unique advertising identifiers, cookies, and other information to acquire potential users, such as Apple’s rules regarding the collection and use of identifiers for advertising (“IDFA”), have adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, our advertising efforts. To continue to reach potential users and grow our businesses, we must identify and devote more of our overall marketing expenditures to newer advertising channels, such as mobile, social media, and online video platforms. Generally, the opportunities in and sophistication of newer advertising channels and methods continue to be less developed, proven, and precise, making it more difficult to assess returns on investment associated with our advertising efforts and to cost-effectively identify potential users. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to appropriately manage our marketing efforts in response to these and other trends in the advertising industry. Any failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 14 Distribution and marketing of, and access to, our services rely, in significant part, on a variety of third-party platforms, in particular, mobile app stores. If these third parties limit, prohibit, or otherwise interfere with features or services or change their policies in any material way, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We market and distribute our services (including related mobile applications) through a variety of third-party distribution channels, including Facebook, which has rolled out its own dating service. Our ability to market our brands on any given property or channel is subject to the policies and practices of the relevant third party. Certain platforms and channels have, from time to time, limited or prohibited advertisements for our services for a variety of reasons, including poor behavior by other industry participants. There is no assurance that we will not be limited or prohibited from using certain marketing channels in the future. Further, certain platforms on which we market our brands may not properly monitor or ensure the quality of content located adjacent to or near our advertisements on such platforms, which may have a negative effect on consumers’ perceptions of our own brands due to association with such content, which content our users may deem inappropriate. If this were to happen with a significant marketing channel and/or for a significant period of time, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Additionally, our mobile applications are almost exclusively accessed through the Apple App Store and Google Play Store. Both Apple and Google have broad discretion to change, and from time to time have changed, their policies regarding their mobile operating systems and app stores in ways that may limit, eliminate, or otherwise interfere with our ability to distribute or market our applications through their stores, our ability to update our applications, including to make bug fixes or other feature updates or upgrades, the features we provide, our ability to access native functionality or other aspects of mobile devices, and our ability to access information about our users that they collect. To the extent either or both of them do so, our business, financial condition, and results of operations have in the past been, and could again in the future be, adversely affected. Apple and Google are also known to retaliate against application developers who publicly or privately challenge their app store rules and policies, and such retaliation has and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The success of our services will depend, in part, on our ability to access, collect, and use personal data about our users and subscribers. We rely on the Apple App Store and Google Play Store to distribute and monetize our mobile applications. Our users and subscribers engage with these platforms directly and may be subject to requirements regarding the use of their payment systems for various transactions. As a result of this disintermediation, these platforms receive and do not share with us key user data that we would otherwise receive if we transacted with our users and subscribers directly. If these platforms continue to or increasingly limit, eliminate, or otherwise interfere with our ability to access, collect, and use key user data, our ability to identify and communicate with a meaningful portion of our user and subscriber bases and provide services to help keep our users safe may be adversely impacted. If so, our customer relationship management efforts, our ability to reach new segments of our user and subscriber bases and the population generally, the efficiency of our paid marketing efforts, the rates we are able to charge advertisers seeking to reach users and subscribers on our various properties, our ability to comply with applicable law, and our ability to identify and exclude users and subscribers whose access would violate applicable terms and conditions, including underage individuals and bad actors, may be negatively impacted, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. As the distribution of our services through app stores increases, in order to maintain our profit margins, we have taken steps to, and in the future may need to further, offset increasing app store fees by decreasing traditional marketing expenditures, increasing user volume or monetization per user, consolidating back-office and technical functions, or by engaging in other efforts to increase revenue or decrease costs generally. We rely on the Apple App Store and the Google Play Store to distribute and monetize our mobile applications and related in-app services. While our mobile applications are generally free to download from these stores, we offer our users the opportunity to purchase subscriptions and certain à la carte features within these applications. We determine the prices at which these subscriptions and features are sold; however, purchases of these subscriptions and features are required in most cases to be processed through the in-app payment systems provided by Apple and Google, although some of our applications are currently able to use their own payment systems for in-app purchases made on Android devices. Where we are required to use 15 Apple’s or Google’s payment systems, we pay Apple and Google, as applicable, a meaningful share (generally 30% or, for subscriptions purchased on Android devices, 15%) of the revenue we receive from these transactions. Where payments on Android devices are processed through other payment systems, we are also required to pay Google a meaningful share. However we have entered into a partnership with Google that will provide value exchange across our broad relationship with them, which we expect to help offset the additional costs that our brands expect to incur over the three years starting in 2024 associated with implementing Google’s User Choice Billing system, which allows application developers to offer an additional billing system alongside Google Play’s billing system. Additionally, while Apple was recently forced to change its rules in the U.S. marketplace on anti-steering to allow for payment processing outside its payment systems, Apple has stated that it will still charge up to 27% for those transactions. We do not expect to realize any meaningful decrease in app store fees as a result of this change. In the EU, the Digital Markets Act is set to go into effect in March 2024. Apple has submitted its plan for compliance, which would lower the 30% service fee in the EU to 17% for our applications, but would also add a payment processing fee of 3%, as well as a 0.50 Euro fee per download (including updates) per year. Apple’s plan is subject to approval by EU regulators. For additional information, see “Item 1—Business—Dependencies on services provided by others—App Stores.” While we are constantly innovating on and creating our own payment systems and methods, given the ever increasing distribution of our services through app stores and the combination of their strict anti-steering rules and mandates to use the in-app payments systems tied into those app stores, we have taken steps to, and in the future may need to further, offset these increased app store fees by decreasing traditional marketing expenditures as a percentage of revenue, increasing user volume or monetization per user, consolidating back-office or technical functions, or by engaging in other efforts to increase revenue or decrease costs generally. For example, in 2023 we began consolidating some of our legacy brands’ platforms to decrease operating costs. Any failure to offset increased app store fees could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Challenges with properly managing the use of artificial intelligence could result in reputational harm, competitive harm, and legal liability. We currently incorporate AI into certain of our services and are working to further integrate AI technologies into our services, which integrations may become important to our operations over time. Our competitors or other third parties may incorporate AI into their services more quickly or more successfully than us, which could impair our ability to compete effectively and adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, AI algorithms and training methodologies may be flawed. If the content or recommendations that AI applications assist in producing are or are alleged to be deficient, inaccurate, offensive, biased, or otherwise improper or harmful, we may face reputational consequences or legal liability, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. Further, the use of AI has been known to result in, and may in the future result in, cybersecurity incidents that implicate the personal data of end users of AI-enhanced services. Any such cybersecurity incidents related to our use of AI could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. AI also presents emerging ethical issues and if our use of AI becomes controversial, we may experience brand or reputational harm, competitive harm, or legal liability. The rapid evolution of AI will require the dedication of significant resources to develop, test, and maintain AI technologies, including to further implement AI ethically in order to minimize unintended harmful impact. While we aim to deploy AI responsibly and attempt to identify and mitigate ethical and legal issues presented by its use, we may be unsuccessful in identifying or resolving issues before they arise. The legal and regulatory landscape surrounding generative AI technologies is rapidly evolving and uncertain including in the areas of intellectual property, discrimination, cybersecurity, and privacy and data protection. Compliance with existing, new, and changing laws, regulations, and industry standards relating to AI may limit some uses of AI, impose significant operational costs, and limit our ability to develop, deploy, or use AI technologies. Further, the continued integration of any AI technologies into our service may result in new or enhanced governmental or regulatory scrutiny. Failure to appropriately respond to this evolving landscape may result in legal liability, regulatory action, or brand and reputational harm. 16 Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations have adversely affected and may in the future adversely affect our results of operations. We operate in various international markets, including jurisdictions within the EU and Asia. During periods of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our international revenues have been and will be reduced when translated into U.S. dollars. In addition, as foreign currency exchange rates fluctuate, the translation of our international revenues into U.S. dollar-denominated operating results affects the period-over-period comparability of such results and will also result in foreign currency exchange gains and losses. For additional information, see “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Non-GAAP Financial Measures—Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates on Revenue,“ and “Item 7A—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Foreign Currency Exchange Risk.” We depend on our key personnel. Our future success will depend upon our continued ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly skilled individuals across the globe, with the continued contributions of our senior management being especially critical to our success. Competition for well-qualified employees across Match Group and its various businesses is intense, particularly in the case of senior leadership and technology roles, and our continued ability to compete effectively depends, in part, upon our ability to attract new employees. Our ability to attract, retain, and motivate employees may also be adversely affected by stock price volatility. In particular, declines in our stock price, or lower stock price performance relative to competitors for talent, have reduced the retentive value of our stock-based awards, which can impact the competitiveness of our compensation. Further, in the past we have had, and may continue to have for the foreseeable future, significant amounts of stock-based compensation expense due to the competitive market for executive and technical talent, which includes competitors that are much larger than us. Effective succession planning is also important to our future success. At times we have experienced significant changes to our senior leadership team. Those changes and any future significant leadership changes or senior management transitions involve inherent risk. If we fail to ensure the effective transfer of senior management or other institutional knowledge as well as smooth transitions involving senior management across our various businesses, our ability to execute short and long term strategic, financial, and operating goals, as well as our business, financial condition, and results of operations generally, could be adversely affected. In addition to intense competition for talent, workforce dynamics are constantly evolving, such as recent broad shifts to hybrid work models. If we do not manage changing workforce dynamics effectively, it could materially adversely affect our culture, reputation, and operational flexibility. Our success depends, in part, on the integrity of our systems and infrastructures and on our ability to enhance, expand, and adapt these systems and infrastructures in a timely and cost-effective manner. To succeed, our systems and infrastructures must perform well on a consistent basis. We have experienced and may from time to time experience system interruptions that make some or all of our systems or data unavailable and prevent our services from functioning properly for our users. Any such interruption could arise for any number of reasons, including as a result of our current efforts to consolidate some of the legacy brands’ platforms or as a result of actions by government agencies. Further, our systems and infrastructures are vulnerable to damage from cyberattacks, fire, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, software bugs, acts of God, and similar events. While we have backup systems in place for certain aspects of our operations, not all of our systems and infrastructures are fully redundant, disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities, and our property and business interruption insurance coverage may not be adequate to fully compensate us for any losses that we may suffer. Any interruptions or outages, regardless of the cause, could negatively impact our users’ experiences with our platforms, tarnish our brands’ reputations, and decrease demand for our services, any or all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We also continually work to expand and enhance the efficiency and scalability of our technology and network systems to improve the experience of our users, accommodate substantial increases in the volume of traffic to our various platforms, ensure acceptable load times for our services, and keep up with changes in technology and user preferences. Any failure to do so in a timely and cost-effective manner could adversely affect our users’ experience with our various services, thereby negatively impacting the demand for our services, 17 and could increase our costs, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. From time to time we have and may continue to, augment and enhance, or transition to other, enterprise resource planning, human resources, financial, or other systems. Such actions may cause us to experience difficulties in managing our systems and processes, which could disrupt our operations, the management of our finances, and the reporting of our financial results, which, in turn, may result in our inability to manage the growth of our business and to accurately forecast and report our results, each of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may not be able to protect our systems and infrastructure from cyberattacks and may be adversely affected by cyberattacks experienced by third parties. We are regularly under attack by perpetrators of random or targeted malicious technology-related events, such as cyberattacks, computer viruses, worms, bot attacks or other destructive or disruptive software, distributed denial of service attacks, and attempts to misappropriate customer information, including personal user data, credit card information, and account login credentials. While we have invested (and continue to invest) in the protection of our systems and infrastructure, in related personnel and training, and in employing a data minimization strategy, where appropriate, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent significant breaches in our systems or other such events from occurring. Some of our systems have experienced past security incidents, and, although they did not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, there can be no assurance of a similar result in the future. There is also no guarantee that a series of incidents may not be determined to be material at a later date in the aggregate, even if they may not be material individually at the time of their occurrence. Any cyber or similar attack we are unable to protect ourselves against could damage our systems and infrastructure, prevent us from providing our services, tarnish our brand reputation, result in the disclosure of confidential or sensitive information of our users, and/or be costly to remedy, as well as subject us to investigations by regulatory authorities and/or litigation that could result in liability to third parties. The impact of cyber or similar attacks experienced by third parties who provide services to us or otherwise process data on our behalf could have a similar effect on us. Moreover, even cyber or similar attacks that do not directly affect us or our third party service providers or data processors may result in widespread access to user data, for instance through account login credentials that such users might have used across multiple internet sites, including our sites, or directly through access to user data that these third party service providers could process in the context of the services they provide to us. These events can lead to government enforcement actions, fines, and litigation, as well as loss of consumer confidence generally, which could make users less likely to use or continue to use online services generally, including our services. The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our success depends, in part, on the integrity of third-party systems and infrastructure. We rely on third parties, primarily data center and cloud-based, hosted web service providers, such as Amazon Web Services, as well as third party computer systems, service providers, and broadband and other communications systems, in connection with the provision of our services generally, as well as to facilitate and process certain transactions with our users. We have no control over any of these third parties or their operations and such third party systems are increasingly complex. Any changes in service levels at our data centers or hosted web service providers or any interruptions, outages, or delays in our systems or those of our third party providers, deterioration in the performance of these systems, or cyber or similar attacks on these systems could impair our ability to provide our services or process transactions with our users, which would adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. For additional information, see “Item 1—Business—Dependencies on services provided by others—Cloud and Other Services.” If the security of personal and confidential or sensitive user information that we maintain and store is breached or otherwise accessed by unauthorized persons, it may be costly to mitigate the impact of such an event and our reputation could be harmed. We receive, process, store, and transmit a significant amount of personal user and other confidential or sensitive information, including, without limitation, credit card information and user-to-user communications. We also enable our users to share their personal information with each other. In some cases, we engage third party service providers to store or process this information. We continuously develop and maintain systems to 18 protect the security, integrity, and confidentiality of this information, but we have experienced past incidents and cannot guarantee that inadvertent or unauthorized use or disclosure will not occur in the future or that third parties will not gain unauthorized access to, or will not use for unauthorized purposes, this information despite our efforts. When such events occur, we may not be able to remedy them, and we may be required by an increasing number of laws to notify regulators and individuals whose personal information was processed, used, or disclosed without authorization. We may also be subject to claims against us, including government enforcement actions, fines, and litigation, and have to expend significant capital and other resources to mitigate the impact of such events, including developing and implementing protections to prevent future events of this nature from occurring. When breaches of security (or the security of our service providers) occur, the perception of the effectiveness of our security measures, the security measures of our service providers, and our reputation may be harmed, we may lose current and potential users, and our various brands’ reputations and competitive positions may be tarnished, any or all of which might adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business is subject to complex and evolving U.S. and international laws and regulations, including with respect to data privacy and platform liability. These laws and regulations are subject to change and uncertain interpretation, and could result in changes to our business practices, increased cost of operations, declines in user growth or engagement, claims, monetary penalties, or other harm to our business. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the United States and abroad that involve matters that are important to or may otherwise impact our business. See “Item 1—Business—Government regulation.” These U.S. federal, state, and municipal and foreign laws and regulations, which in some cases can be enforced by private parties in addition to government entities, are constantly evolving and subject to change. As a result, the application, interpretation, and enforcement of these laws and regulations are often uncertain, particularly in the rapidly evolving industry in which we operate, and may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from state to state and country to country. These laws and regulations, as well as any associated inquiries, investigations, or other government actions, may be costly to comply with and have in the past, and may in the future delay or impede the development of new services, require changes to or cessation of certain business practices, result in negative publicity, increase our operating costs, require significant management time and attention, and subject us to remedies that may harm our business, including fines or modifications to existing business practices. See “Item 3 Legal Proceedings—Irish Data Protection Commission Inquiry Regarding Tinder’s Practices.” In the case of tax laws, positions that we have taken or will take are subject to interpretation by the relevant taxing authorities. While we believe that the positions we have taken to date comply with applicable law, there can be no assurances that the relevant taxing authorities will not take a contrary position, and if so, that such positions will not adversely affect us. Any events of this nature could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Proposed or new legislation and regulations could also adversely affect our business. See “Item 1—Business—Government regulation.” To the extent such new or more stringent measures are required to be implemented, impose new liability, or limit or remove existing protections, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. The adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the popularity or growth in use of the internet or our services, including laws or regulations that undermine open and neutrally administered internet access, could decrease user demand for our service offerings and increase our cost of doing business. For example, in 2017, the Federal Communications Commission adopted an order reversing net neutrality protections in the United States, including the repeal of specific rules against blocking, throttling, or “paid prioritization” of content or services by internet service providers. To the extent internet service providers engage in such blocking, throttling, “paid prioritization” of content, or similar actions as a result of this order and the adoption of similar laws or regulations, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. We are subject to a number of risks related to credit card payments, including data security breaches and fraud that we or third parties experience, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We accept payment from our users primarily through credit card transactions and certain online payment service providers. When we or a third party experiences a data security breach involving credit card information, 19 affected cardholders will often cancel their credit cards. In the case of a breach experienced by a third party, the more sizable the third party’s customer base and the greater the number of credit card accounts impacted, the more likely it is that our users would be impacted by such a breach. To the extent our users are affected by such a breach experienced by us or a third party, such users would need to be contacted to obtain new credit card information and process any pending transactions. It is likely that we would not be able to reach all affected users, and even if we could, some users’ new credit card information may not be obtained and some pending transactions may not be processed, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Even if our users are not directly impacted by a given data security breach, they may lose confidence in the ability of service providers to protect their personal information generally, which could cause them to stop using their credit cards online or choose alternative payment methods that are less convenient or more costly for us or otherwise restrict our ability to process payments without significant user effort. Additionally, if we fail to adequately prevent fraudulent credit card transactions, we may face litigation, fines, governmental enforcement action, civil liability, diminished public perception of our security measures, significantly higher credit card-related and remediation costs, or refusal by credit card processors to continue to process payments on our behalf, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Inappropriate actions by certain of our users could be attributed to us and damage our brands’ reputations, which in turn could adversely affect our business. Users of our services have been, and may in the future be, physically, financially, emotionally, or otherwise harmed by other individuals that such users met or may meet through the use of one of our services. When one or more of our users suffers or alleges to have suffered any such harm, we have in the past, and could in the future, experience negative publicity or legal action that could damage our reputation and our brands. Similar events affecting users of our competitors’ services have in the past, and could in the future, result in negative publicity for our industry generally, which could in turn negatively affect our business. In addition, the reputations of our brands may be adversely affected by the actions of our users that are deemed to be hostile, offensive, defamatory, inappropriate, untrue, or unlawful. While we have systems and processes in place that aim to monitor and review the appropriateness of the content accessible through our services, and have adopted policies regarding illegal, offensive, or inappropriate use of our services, our users have in the past, and could in the future, nonetheless engage in activities that violate our policies. Such bad actors may also use emerging technologies, such as AI, to engage in such activities, which would make it more difficult for us and other users to detect and prevent such negative behavior. Our safeguards may not be sufficient to avoid harm to our reputation and brands, especially if such hostile, offensive, or inappropriate use is well-publicized. Our business and results of operations have been and may in the future be adversely affected by global health pandemics. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the outbreak of a widespread health epidemic or pandemic, such as the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic reached across the globe, resulting in the implementation of significant governmental measures intended to control the spread of the virus, including lockdowns, closures, quarantines, and travel bans, as well as changes in consumer behavior as individuals became reluctant to engage in social activities with people outside their households. Such measures had an adverse impact on global economic conditions and consumer confidence and spending, and adversely affected users’ ability to pay, for our services. The ultimate extent of the impact of any epidemic, pandemic, or other health crisis on our business will depend on multiple factors that are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including its severity, location, and duration, and actions taken to contain or further prevent its spread. Additionally, pandemics could increase the magnitude of many of the other risks described in this annual report, and have other adverse effects on our operations that we are not currently able to predict. If our business and the markets in which we operate experience a prolonged occurrence of adverse public health conditions, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 20 We may fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or may be accused of infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. We rely heavily upon our trademarks and related domain names and logos to market our brands and to build and maintain brand loyalty and recognition. We also rely upon patented and patent-pending proprietary technologies and trade secrets relating to our services. We rely on a combination of laws as well as contractual restrictions with employees, customers, suppliers, and others, to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. For example, we have generally registered and continue to apply to register and renew, or secure by contract where appropriate, trademarks and service marks as they are developed and used, and reserve, register, and renew domain names as we deem appropriate. Effective trademark protection may not be available or sought in every country in which our services are made available, and contractual disputes may affect the use of marks governed by private contract. Similarly, not every variation of a domain name may be available or registered, even if available. We generally seek to apply for patents or other similar statutory protections as and when we deem appropriate, based on then-current facts and circumstances, and will continue to do so in the future. No assurances can be given that any patent application we have filed or will file will result in a patent being issued, or that any existing or future patents will afford adequate protection against competitors and similar technologies. In addition, no assurances can be given that third parties will not create new products or methods that achieve similar results without infringing upon patents we own. Despite these measures, our intellectual property rights may still not be protected in a meaningful manner, challenges to contractual rights could arise, third parties could copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization, our existing trademarks, patents, or trade secrets can be, and, on rare occasions, have been, determined to be invalid or unenforceable, or laws and interpretations of laws regarding the enforceability of existing intellectual property rights may change over time in a manner that provides less protection. The occurrence of any of these events could tarnish our brands’ reputations, limit our ability to market them, or impede our ability to effectively compete against competitors with similar technologies, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. From time to time, we have been subject to legal proceedings and claims regarding intellectual property, including claims of alleged infringement of trademarks, copyrights, patents, and other intellectual property rights held by third parties and of invalidity of our own rights. In addition, from time to time we have engaged in litigation, and may continue to do so in the future, to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets and patents, or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights claimed by others. Any litigation of this nature, regardless of outcome or merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We operate in various international markets, including certain markets in which we have limited experience, and some of our brands continue to seek to increase their international scope. As a result, we face additional risks in connection with certain of our international operations. Operating internationally, particularly in countries in which we have limited experience, exposes us to a number of risks in addition to those otherwise described in this annual report, such as: • operational and compliance challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • differing levels of social and technological acceptance of our services or lack of acceptance of them generally; • differing and potentially adverse tax laws; • compliance challenges due to different laws and regulatory environments, particularly in the case of privacy, data security, intermediary or platform liability, and consumer protection; • competitive environments that favor local businesses or local knowledge of such environments; • limitations on the level of intellectual property protection; and 21 • trade sanctions, political unrest, terrorism, war, and epidemics or the threat of any of these events. The occurrence of any or all of the events described above could adversely affect our international operations, which could in turn adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may experience operational and financial risks in connection with acquisitions. We have made acquisitions in the past, including our acquisition of Hyperconnect in 2021, and continue to seek potential acquisition candidates. We may experience operational and financial risks in connection with historical and future acquisitions if we are unable to: • properly value prospective acquisitions, especially those with limited operating histories; • fully identify potential risks and liabilities associated with acquired businesses; • accurately project the future financial condition and results of operations of acquired businesses; • successfully integrate the operations, financial, and other administrative systems of the acquired businesses with our existing operations and systems; • retain or hire senior management and other key personnel at acquired businesses; and • successfully support the acquired businesses in executing on strategic plans, including expansion into geographies where we have presence and experience. Furthermore, we may not be successful in addressing other challenges encountered in connection with our acquisitions and the anticipated benefits of one or more of our acquisitions may not be realized. In addition, such acquisitions can result in material diversion of management’s attention or other resources from our existing businesses. The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have incurred impairment charges related to our intangible assets in the past and may incur further impairment charges related to our goodwill and other intangible assets in the future, which have required us to, and in the future may again require us to, record a significant charge to earnings. We acquire other companies and intangible assets and may not realize all the economic benefit from those acquisitions, which could cause an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets. We assess goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually, or more frequently if an event occurs or there is a change in circumstances that indicates the carrying value may not be recoverable, including, but not limited to, a decline in our stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, or slower growth rates in our industry. For example, in 2022, we recorded impairment charges related to Hyperconnect intangible assets that stemmed from a decline in long-term projections for the business since the acquisition in 2021, including adverse foreign currency impacts in certain of Hyperconnect’s key markets, and the use of higher discount rates to value the assets. We may in the future be required to record additional significant charges in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets is determined, which would negatively affect our results of operations. For further information, see “Note 5—Goodwill and Intangible Assets” to the consolidated financial statements included in “Part II, Item 8—Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” We are subject to litigation, and adverse outcomes in such litigation could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. We are, and from time to time may become, subject to litigation and various legal proceedings, including litigation and proceedings related to employment matters, intellectual property matters, and privacy and consumer protection laws, as well as stockholder derivative suits, class action lawsuits, mass arbitrations, and other matters. Such litigation and proceedings may involve claims for substantial amounts of money or for other relief, result in significant costs for legal representation, arbitration fees, or other legal or related services, or might necessitate changes to our business or operations. The defense of these actions is time consuming and expensive. We evaluate these litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. Based on these assessments and estimates, we may establish reserves and/or disclose the relevant litigation claims or legal proceedings, as and when required or appropriate. These assessments and estimates are based on information available to 22 management at the time of such assessment or estimation and involve a significant amount of judgment. As a result, actual outcomes or losses could differ materially from those envisioned by our current assessments and estimates. Our failure to successfully defend or settle any of these litigation claims or legal proceedings could result in liability that, to the extent not covered by our insurance, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. See “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” Our operations are subject to volatile global economic conditions, particularly those that adversely impact consumer confidence and spending behavior. Adverse macroeconomic conditions, including lower consumer confidence, changes to fiscal and monetary policy, the availability and cost of credit, and weakness in the economies in which we and our users are located, have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In recent years, the United States, Europe and other key global markets have experienced historically high levels of inflation, which have impacted, among other things, employee compensation expenses. If inflation rates rise again or continue to remain historically high or further increase in those locations where inflation rates remain elevated, it will likely affect our expenses, and may reduce consumer discretionary spending, which could affect the buying power of our users and lead to a reduced demand for our services, particularly for à la carte features or at brands that serve consumers with less discretionary income. Other events and trends that could result in decreased levels of consumer confidence and discretionary spending include a general economic downturn, recessionary concerns, high unemployment levels, and increased interest rates, as well as any sudden disruption in business conditions. Additionally, geopolitical developments, such as wars in Ukraine and the Middle East, tensions with China, climate change, and the responses by central banking authorities to control inflation, can increase levels of political and economic unpredictability globally and increase the volatility of global financial markets. Risks relating to our indebtedness Our indebtedness may affect our ability to operate our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness. As of December 31, 2023, we had total debt outstanding of approximately $3.9 billion and borrowing availability of $749.6 million under our revolving credit facility. Our indebtedness could have important consequences, such as: • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund working capital needs, acquisitions, capital expenditures, or other debt service requirements or for other purposes; • limiting our ability to use operating cash flow to pursue acquisitions or invest in other areas, such as developing new brands, services, or exploiting business opportunities; • restricting our business operations due to financial and operating covenants in the agreements governing our and certain of our subsidiaries’ existing and future indebtedness, including certain covenants that restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us; and • exposing us to potential events of default (if not cured or waived) under financial and operating covenants contained in our or our subsidiaries’ debt instruments that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Although the terms of our credit agreement and the indentures related to our senior notes contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be significant. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the risks described above could increase. Further, as financial markets have become more costly to access due to increased interest rates or other changes in economic conditions, our ability to raise additional capital may be negatively impacted, and any refinancing or restructuring could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. 23 We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness that may not be successful. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations will depend upon, among other things: • our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control; and • our future ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility, the availability of which will depend on, among other things, our complying with the covenants in the then-existing agreements governing our indebtedness. There can be no assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that we will be able to draw under our revolving credit facility or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to service our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. Variable rate indebtedness that we have incurred or may incur under our credit agreement will subject us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. We currently have $425 million of indebtedness outstanding under our term loan and no outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit agreement. Borrowings under the term loan are, and any borrowings under the revolving credit facility will be, at variable rates of interest. Indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates exposes us to interest rate risk. See “Item 7A—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Interest Rate Risk.” Exchange of our outstanding exchangeable notes may dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders or may otherwise depress the price of our common stock. We are obligated as a guarantor under the indentures relating to the outstanding exchangeable notes issued by certain of our subsidiaries. The exchange of some or all of the exchangeable notes may dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders to the extent we deliver shares of our common stock upon exchange. While outstanding hedges relating to the exchangeable notes are expected to reduce the potential dilutive effect on our common stock upon any exchange and/or offset any cash payment the issuers of the exchangeable notes would be required to make in excess of the principal amount of the exchanged notes, outstanding warrants relating to the exchangeable notes have a dilutive effect to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the strike price of the warrants. Any sales in the public market of our common stock issuable upon exchange of any exchangeable notes could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the exchangeable notes may encourage short selling of our common stock by market participants because the exchange of the exchangeable notes could be used to satisfy short positions. In addition, the anticipated exchange of the exchangeable notes could depress the price of our common stock. Risks relating to the Separation If the transactions effected in connection with the Separation were to fail to qualify as generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we and our stockholders could suffer material adverse consequences. On June 30, 2020, the companies formerly known as Match Group, Inc. (referred to as “Former Match Group”) and IAC/InterActiveCorp (referred to as “Former IAC”) completed the separation of the Company from IAC through a series of transactions that resulted in two, separate public companies—(1) Match Group, which consists of the businesses of Former Match Group and certain financing subsidiaries previously owned by Former 24 IAC, and (2) IAC/InterActiveCorp, formerly known as IAC Holdings, Inc. (“IAC”), consisting of Former IAC’s businesses other than Match Group (the “Separation”). Following the completion of the Separation and the merger of Former Match Group into a wholly-owned subsidiary (“Merger Sub”) of Former IAC (the “Merger”), Former Match Group’s successor became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Match Group and most of Former IAC’s existing other subsidiaries came to be held under a separate public company. Former IAC and IAC received opinions from outside counsel that the Separation and related transactions taken together, and the Merger, were tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes. These opinions were based upon and rely on various facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations and undertakings of Former IAC, Former Match Group, IAC, and Match Group, including relating to the past and future conduct of Former IAC, Former Match Group, IAC, and Match Group. If any of these representations or undertakings is, or becomes, inaccurate or incomplete, or if any of the representations or covenants contained in any of the transaction-related agreements or in any document relating to the opinions of counsel is, or becomes, inaccurate or is not complied with by Former IAC, Former Match Group, IAC, Match Group, or any of their respective subsidiaries, the opinions of counsel may be invalid and the conclusions reached therein could be jeopardized. Notwithstanding receipt of the opinions of counsel regarding the transactions, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) could determine that some or all of the transactions effected in connection with the Separation should be treated as taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions, or undertakings upon which the opinions of counsel were based are inaccurate or have not been complied with. Moreover, even if the foregoing representations, assumptions, or undertakings are accurate and have been complied with, the opinions of counsel merely represent the judgment of such counsel and are not binding on the IRS or any court, and the IRS or a court may disagree with the conclusions in the opinions of counsel. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not assert that the transactions effected in connection with the Separation do not qualify for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. In the event the IRS were to prevail with such a challenge, parties to the Separation, including Match Group could be subject to tax with respect to the Separation. For example, if the transactions effected in connection with the Separation were to fail to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as amended, the “Code”), in general, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would recognize a taxable gain as if the distribution of New IAC stock in connection with the Separation had been sold in a taxable sale for its fair market value. Even if the transactions effected in connection with the Separation were to otherwise qualify as a tax-free transaction under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, taxable gain may be triggered under Section 355(e) of the Code if the transactions effected in connection with the Separation were, or later transactions are, deemed to be part of a plan (or series of related transactions) pursuant to which one or more persons acquire, directly or indirectly, shares representing a 50 percent or greater interest (by vote or value) in us or IAC. For this purpose, any acquisitions of (i) Former IAC stock or Former Match Group stock before the Separation or (ii) IAC stock or Match Group stock within the period beginning two years before the Separation and ending two years after the Separation are presumed to be part of such a plan, although we or IAC may be able to rebut that presumption. In addition to potential tax liabilities relating to Former Match Group, we and our subsidiaries could be liable to satisfy any tax liabilities relating to Former IAC or IAC with respect to the Separation if their tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes were successfully challenged by the IRS. While, in some cases, IAC may be obligated under certain agreements to indemnify us for some or all of such taxes, even in those cases, there is no assurance that they will in fact indemnify us. In addition, if the Merger were determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would be subject to tax on the transfer of the assets of Former Match to Merger Sub. If we or our subsidiaries were required to pay taxes imposed on us with respect to the Separation, our cash flows would be adversely affected. 25 Risks relating to ownership of our common stock You may experience dilution due to the issuance of additional securities in the future . Our dilutive securities consist of vested options to purchase shares of our common stock, restricted stock unit awards, equity awards denominated in the equity of our non-public subsidiaries but settleable in shares of our common stock, the exchangeable notes, and the exchangeable note warrants. These dilutive securities are reflected in our dilutive earnings per share calculation contained in our financial statements for fiscal years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021. For more information, see “Note 10—Earnings per Share” to the consolidated financial statements included in “Part II, Item 8—Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Intra-quarter movements in our stock price could lead to more or less dilution than reflected in these calculations. We do not plan to declare any regular cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have no current plans to pay cash dividends on our common stock. Instead, we anticipate that all of our future earnings will be retained to support our operations, to finance the growth and development of our business, and to fund our share repurchase program. We are not obligated to pay dividends on our common stock. Consequently, investors may need to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws or Delaware law may discourage, delay, or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Delaware corporate law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous, including provisions which: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that our board of directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares and to discourage a takeover attempt; • establish a classified board of directors, as a result of which our board is divided into three classes, with each class serving for staggered three-year terms, which prevents stockholders from electing an entirely new board of directors at an annual meeting; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; • eliminate the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • provide that certain litigation against us can be brought only in Delaware (subject to certain exceptions); and • provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter, or repeal our bylaws. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation could prevent us from benefiting from corporate opportunities that might otherwise have been available to us. Our certificate of incorporation includes a “corporate opportunity” provision in which Match Group and its affiliates renounce any interests or expectancy in corporate opportunities which become known to any of Match Group’s directors or officers who are also officers or directors of IAC. Generally, Match Group’s officers or directors who are also IAC’s officers or directors will not be liable to Match Group or its stockholders for breach of any fiduciary duty because such person fails to communicate or offer to Match Group a corporate opportunity that has been communicated or offered to IAC, that may also be a corporate opportunity of Match Group or because such person communicates or offers to IAC any corporate 26 opportunity that may also be a corporate opportunity of Match Group. In order for any Match Group director or officer who is also an IAC director or officer not to be liable to Match Group or its stockholders, such opportunity cannot become known to the officer or director in his or her capacity as a Match Group director or officer and cannot be presented to any party other than IAC. In addition, such officer or director cannot pursue such an opportunity in his or her individual capacity. The corporate opportunity provision may exacerbate conflicts of interest between Match Group and IAC because the provision effectively permits any of Match Group’s directors or officers who also serve as an officer or director of IAC to choose to direct a corporate opportunity to IAC instead of to Match Group.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Key Terms: Operating and financial metrics: • Americas includes North America, Central America, South America, and the Caribbean islands. • Europe includes continental Europe, the British Isles, Iceland, Greenland, and Russia (ceased operations in June 2023), but excludes Turkey (which is included in APAC and Other). • APAC and Other includes Asia, Australia, the Pacific islands, the Middle East, and Africa. • Match Group Asia (“MG Asia”) consists of the brands primarily focused on Asia and the Middle East including Pairs™ and Azar®. • Evergreen & Emerging (“E&E”) consists primarily of the brands Match®, Meetic®, OkCupid®, Plenty Of Fish®, and BLK®. • Direct Revenue is revenue that is received directly from end users of our services and includes both subscription and à la carte revenue. • Indirect Revenue is revenue that is not received directly from an end user of our services, substantially all of which is advertising revenue. • Payers are unique users at a brand level in a given month from whom we earned Direct Revenue. When presented as a quarter-to-date or year-to-date value, Payers represents the average of the monthly values for the respective period presented. At a consolidated level, duplicate Payers may exist when we earn revenue from the same individual at multiple brands in a given month, as we are unable to identify unique individuals across brands in the Match Group portfolio. • Revenue Per Payer (“RPP”) is the average monthly revenue earned from a Payer and is Direct Revenue for a period divided by the Payers in the period, further divided by the number of months in the period. Operating costs and expenses: • Cost of revenue - consists primarily of the amortization of in-app purchase fees, hosting fees, compensation expense (including stock-based compensation expense) and other employee-related costs for personnel engaged in data center and customer care functions, live video costs, credit card processing fees, and data center rent, energy, and bandwidth costs. In-app purchase fees are monies paid to Apple and Google in connection with the processing of in-app purchases of subscriptions and service features through the in-app payment systems provided by Apple and Google. • Selling and marketing expense - consists primarily of advertising expenditures and compensation expense (including stock-based compensation expense) and other employee-related costs for personnel engaged in selling and marketing, and sales support functions. Advertising expenditures includes online marketing, including fees paid to search engines and social media sites, offline marketing, and production of advertising content. • General and administrative expense - consists primarily of compensation expense (including stock-based compensation expense) and other employee-related costs for personnel engaged in executive management, finance, legal, tax and human resources, fees for professional services (including transaction-related costs for acquisitions), and facilities costs. • Product development expense - consists primarily of compensation expense (including stock-based compensation expense) and other employee-related costs that are not capitalized for personnel engaged in the design, development, testing, and enhancement of service offerings and related technology. 34 Long-term debt: • Credit Facility - The revolving credit facility under the credit agreement of MG Holdings II. At December 31, 2023, there was $0.4 million outstanding in letters of credit and $749.6 million of availability under the Credit Facility. • Term Loan - The term loan facility under the credit agreement of MG Holdings II. At December 31, 2022, the Term Loan bore interest at LIBOR plus 1.75% and the then applicable rate was 6.49%. Effective June 30, 2023, we entered into an amendment to replace the LIBOR rate with a term secured overnight financing rate plus an applicable adjustment (“Adjusted Term SOFR”) for future repricing events under the Term Loan. As of December 31, 2023, $425 million was outstanding under the Term Loan, which bore interest at 7.27% based on the Adjusted Term SOFR plus 1.75%. • 5.00% Senior Notes - MG Holdings II’s 5.00% Senior Notes due December 15, 2027, with interest payable each June 15 and December 15, which were issued on December 4, 2017. At December 31, 2023, $450 million aggregate principal amount was outstanding. • 4.625% Senior Notes - MG Holdings II’s 4.625% Senior Notes due June 1, 2028, with interest payable each June 1 and December 1, which were issued on May 19, 2020. At December 31, 2023, $500 million aggregate principal amount was outstanding. • 5.625% Senior Notes - MG Holdings II’s 5.625% Senior Notes due February 15, 2029, with interest payable each February 15 and August 15, which were issued on February 15, 2019. At December 31, 2023, $350 million aggregate principal amount was outstanding. • 4.125% Senior Notes - MG Holdings II’s 4.125% Senior Notes due August 1, 2030, with interest payable each February 1 and August 1, which were issued on February 11, 2020. At December 31, 2023, $500 million aggregate principal amount was outstanding. • 3.625% Senior Notes - MG Holdings II’s 3.625% Senior Notes due October 1, 2031, with interest payable each April 1 and October 1, which were issued on October 4, 2021. At December 31, 2023, $500 million aggregate principal amount was outstanding. • 2022 Exchangeable Notes - The 0.875% Exchangeable Senior Notes issued by Match Group FinanceCo, Inc., a subsidiary of the Company, which were settled prior to December 31, 2022 and are no longer outstanding. • 2026 Exchangeable Notes - The 0.875% Exchangeable Senior Notes due June 15, 2026 issued by Match Group FinanceCo 2, Inc., a subsidiary of the Company, which are exchangeable into shares of the Company's common stock. Interest is payable each June 15 and December 15. At December 31, 2023, $575 million aggregate principal amount was outstanding. • 2030 Exchangeable Notes - The 2.00% Exchangeable Senior Notes due January 15, 2030 issued by Match Group FinanceCo 3, Inc., a subsidiary of the Company, which are exchangeable into shares of the Company's common stock. Interest is payable each January 15 and July 15. At December 31, 2023, $575 million aggregate principal amount was outstanding. Non-GAAP financial measure: • Adjusted Operating Income - is a Non-GAAP financial measure. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for the definition of Adjusted Operating Income and a reconciliation of net earnings attributable to Match Group, Inc. shareholders to operating income and Adjusted Operating Income. 35 MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW Match Group, Inc., through its portfolio companies, is a leading provider of digital technologies designed to help people make meaningful connections. Our global portfolio of brands includes Tinder ® , Hinge ® , Match ® , Meetic ® , OkCupid ® , Pairs™, Plenty Of Fish ® , Azar ® , BLK®, and more, each built to increase our users’ likelihood of connecting with others. Through our trusted brands, we provide tailored services to meet the varying preferences of our users. Our services are available in over 40 languages to our users all over the world. As used herein, “Match Group,” the “Company,” “we,” “our,” “us,” and similar terms refer to Match Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. Sources of Revenue All of our services provide the use of certain features for free as well as a variety of additional features through a subscription or, for certain features, on a pay-per-use, or à la carte, basis. Our revenue is primarily derived directly from users in the form of recurring subscription fees and à la carte purchases. Subscription revenue is presented net of credits and credit card chargebacks. Payers who purchase subscriptions or à la carte features pay in advance, primarily by using a credit card or through mobile app stores, and, subject to certain conditions identified in our terms and conditions, all purchases are final and nonrefundable. Fees collected, or contractually due, in advance for subscriptions are deferred and recognized as revenue using the straight-line method over the term of the applicable subscription period, which primarily ranges from one week to six months, and corresponding in-app purchase fees incurred on such transactions, if any, are deferred and expensed over the same period. Revenue from the purchase of à la carte features is recognized based on usage. We also earn revenue from online advertising, which is recognized every time an ad is displayed. Trends affecting our business Each brand in our portfolio has the goal of using technology to help people make meaningful connections. While the goal is the same for each brand, the means to achieve that goal can be differentiated by how a specific brand targets their primary demographic. With users of our apps often utilizing multiple apps, our brands can often have overlap on targeted users. The overall trends affecting all brands within our portfolio, include the following: Increase in acceptance and growth of technologies to meet people globally. Over the past decade, there has been meaningful growth in the use of technologies to meet people in North America and Western Europe, and we see the potential for similar growth in the rest of the world in the years ahead. As more internet-connected people seeking connections utilize technologies to meet people, we believe there remains potential for accelerating growth in the use of these technologies in certain global markets where adoption lags more developed countries. As a result, new services, entrants to the market, and business models are likely to continue to emerge, sometimes at the expense of our existing brands, by harnessing a new technology, such as generative artificial intelligence (“AI”) or a new or existing distribution channel, creating a new or different approach to connecting people, or some other means. In-App Purchase Fees. Purchases made by our customers through mobile applications, as opposed to desktop or mobile web, continue to increase, and are required in most cases to be processed through the in-app payment systems provided by Apple and Google. Where we are required to use Apple’s or Google’s payment systems, we pay Apple and Google, as applicable, a meaningful share (generally 30% or, for subscriptions purchased on Android devices, 15%) of the revenue we receive from these transactions. Where payments on Android devices are processed through other payment systems, we are also required to pay Google a meaningful share of our revenue. However we have entered into a partnership with Google that will provide value exchange across our broad relationship with them, which we expect to help offset the additional costs that our brands expect to incur over the three years starting in 2024 associated with implementing Google’s User Choice Billing system, which allows application developers to offer an additional billing system alongside Google Play’s billing system. Additionally, while Apple was recently forced to change its rules in the U.S. marketplace on anti-steering to allow for payment processing outside its payment systems, Apple has stated that it will still charge up to 27% for those transactions. We do not expect to realize any meaningful decrease in app store fees in the U.S. market as a result of this change. In the EU, the Digital Markets Act is set to go into effect in March 2024. Apple has 36 submitted its plan for compliance, which would lower the 30% service fee in the EU to 17% for our applications, but would also add a payment processing fee of 3%, as well as a 0.50 Euro fee per download (including updates) per year. Apple’s plan is subject to approval by EU regulators. For additional information, see “Item 1 Business—Dependencies on services provided by others—App Stores.” Implementing new technologies that enhance our user experience. We expect new technologies, including those utilizing generative AI, to continue to drive user engagement. As new technologies develop we evaluate whether those technologies can be incorporated into our apps to enhance the user experience. We are planning to further integrate AI technologies into our services, which integrations may become important to our operations over time. The rapid evolution of AI will require the dedication of significant resources to develop, test, and maintain these technologies. We expect other technologies to evolve and be tested in our services and incorporated into our apps in the future. In addition to the trends affecting our overall portfolio, some of our individual brands are affected by certain other trends, including the following: Tinder. When Tinder was first developed, the smart phone provided a unique way of offering connections that traditional desktop-based services did not offer. Tinder was able to capitalize on the rise in the use of smart phones and with its younger audience was able to achieve considerable scale through word-of-mouth and viral moments on social media without the need to supplement with significant brand marketing. As the availability of services catering to human connections has increased, we have begun to supplement Tinder’s viral growth with brand marketing to build out Tinder’s brand narrative and grow the size of its user base, which has resulted in an increase in selling and marketing expense at Tinder. Recently, Tinder has experienced a decline in user growth, with plans to return to growth with product initiatives that focus on the female experience and younger users. Hinge. Hinge has developed a strong user base in English speaking markets and began expanding into European markets in the latter half of 2022. Its strong user growth in English speaking and other European markets has helped to contribute to a high level of revenue growth, which we expect will continue into the coming years. As Hinge continues to expand its footprint globally, we intend to continue to focus on adding new features to its service to continue to drive user satisfaction for its target audience of intentioned daters, and to drive additional opportunities for monetization. In the near term, we expect to continue to make investments in the business to support this growth, including investments in product development as well as brand marketing. MG Asia. The focus of the MG Asia brands has primarily been to serve various Asian and Middle Eastern markets. Plans to grow revenue include further expansion by certain brands into the European and U.S. markets. In Japan, our Pairs brand recently won approval to begin advertising on television. While the results of that advertising are still preliminary, early signs have been encouraging. We expect the advertising to increase Pairs’ brand recognition while we work to grow users through various product initiatives and by partnering with local government to improve declining marriage rates in the country. Our Azar app, which provides one to one video chat, has a strong presence in Asia and the Middle East and is expanding in Europe and to the U.S. Our Hakuna app provides live streaming services primarily in Korea and Japan. Evergreen & Emerging. Our collections of brands within E&E include well-known pioneers in online relationships (which we refer to as Evergreen brands) and newer bets which target specific demographics (which we refer to as Emerging brands). Revenues from the Evergreen brands have declined in recent years, while Emerging brands are in the early stages of growth and in many cases are relying on marketing to increase the size of their user base. In 2023, we began a multi-year process of consolidating technology platforms across various Evergreen brands to enable faster feature releases and to reduce the cost to further develop and maintain those platforms. Other trends or factors affecting the comparability of our results Advertising spend. Our advertising spend, which is included in our selling and marketing expense, has consistently been one of our larger operating expenses. How we deploy our advertising spend varies among brands, with the majority of our advertising spend taking place online, including social media sites, streaming services, search engines, and influencers. Additionally, some brands utilize out-of-home marketing campaigns, such as on television and outdoor billboards. For established brands, we seek to optimize for total return on advertising spend by frequently analyzing and adjusting spend to focus on marketing channels and markets that generate returns above our thresholds. Our data-driven approach provides us the flexibility to scale and optimize 37 our advertising spend. We spend advertising dollars against an expected lifetime value of a Payer that is realized over a multi-year period. While this advertising spend is intended to be profitable on that basis, it is nearly always negative during the period in which the expense is incurred. For newer brands that are gaining scale, or existing brands that are expanding into new geographies, we may make incremental advertising investments to establish the brand before optimizing monetization of the brand. In general, our more established brands spend a higher proportion of their revenue on advertising while our newer brands spend a lower proportion and tend to rely more on word of mouth and other viral marketing. Our advertising spend may be incurred unevenly throughout the year. International markets. Our services are available across the world. Our international revenue represented 54% and 55% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. We vary our pricing to align with local market conditions and our international businesses typically earn revenue in local currencies. As foreign currency exchange rates change, translation of the statement of operations of our international businesses into U.S. dollars affects year-over-year comparability of operating results. 2023 Consolidated Results In 2023, total revenue grew 6%, operating income increased 78%, and Adjusted Operating Income grew 11% year-over-year. Revenue growth was primarily due to strong growth at Tinder and Hinge. Operating income and Adjusted Operating Income were positively affected by the increase in revenue and decreases in general and administrative expenses primarily related to decreases in legal and other professional fees. Those positive effects were partially offset by increases in selling and marketing spend at Tinder and Hinge and increases in product development expense primarily due to an increase in compensation expense. Operating income further benefited from decreases in impairment and amortization expense compared to 2022, during which there was an impairment of certain intangible assets. That benefit was partially offset by increased stock-based compensation expense primarily due to new stock-based awards granted during the year. 38 Results of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 The following discussion should be read in conjunction with “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” For a discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, please refer to Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, filed with the SEC on February 24, 2023. Revenue 39 For the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 Americas Direct Revenue grew $115.5 million, or 7%, in 2023 versus 2022, driven by 15% growth in RPP, partially offset by a 7% decrease in Payers. RPP growth was driven by both higher average prices paid for subscriptions at Tinder due to pricing optimizations and the introduction of weekly subscription offerings. Additionally, we saw increased average prices paid by subscribers at Hinge and increased average á la carte purchases per Payer at Tinder. The decrease in Payers was primarily driven by decreases at Tinder due to pricing optimizations, as well as decreases in Payers at Match and OkCupid, partially offset by increased Payers at Hinge. Europe Direct Revenue grew $84.5 million, or 10%, in 2023 versus 2022, driven by 13% growth in RPP, partially offset by a 3% decrease in Payers. RPP growth was driven by higher average prices paid for subscriptions at Tinder and Hinge. Additionally, we saw increased average á la carte purchases per Payer at Tinder. RPP growth was favorably impacted by the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the Euro compared to 2022. The decrease in Payers was primarily due to decreases at Tinder and Meetic, partially offset by increases at Hinge. APAC and Other Direct Revenue decreased $22.1 million, or 3%, in 2023 versus 2022, primarily due to a 3% decrease in RPP, which was unfavorably impacted by the strength of the U.S. dollar compared to the Japanese Yen and Turkish Lira. Tinder Direct Revenue grew 7% in 2023 versus 2022, driven by growth in RPP due to pricing optimizations in the U.S. market and new weekly subscription offerings, partially offset by a decrease in Payers partially attributed to the pricing optimizations. Hinge Direct Revenue grew 40% in 2023 versus 2022, driven by 27% growth in Payers and 10% growth in RPP. The Payer growth at Hinge was across geographies, but in particular in the Americas and Europe, which was a focus of international expansion in 2023 for Hinge. RPP increased as a result of pricing optimizations in the U.S. MG Asia Direct Revenue declined 6% in 2023 versus 2022, driven by declines at Hakuna and Pairs, partially offset by growth at Azar. E&E Direct Revenue declined 5% in 2023 versus 2022, as we continued to moderate marketing spend at our Evergreen brands. The decline at our Evergreen brands was partially offset by growth at our Emerging brands. Indirect Revenue decreased $2.2 million primarily due to a lower rate per ad impression compared to the prior year, partially offset by higher ad impressions. Cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation) For the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 Cost of revenue decreased 1% primarily due to a decrease in live video costs of $22.6 million, a decrease in employee compensation of $6.4 million, and net decreases in other expenses of $8.3 million, all of which were partially offset by an increase in in-app purchase fees of $24.2 million and an increase in hosting fees of $7.1 million. In-app fees were $646.7 million in 2023. 40 Selling and marketing expense For the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 Selling and marketing expense increased primarily due to higher marketing spend at Tinder, Hinge, and certain Emerging brands, partially offset by lower marketing spend at a number of our other brands. General and administrative expense For the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 General and administrative expense declined primarily due to a decrease in legal and other professional fees of $25.5 million and a decrease in stock-based compensation expense of $7.6 million due to forfeitures of equity awards and modification of certain stock-based awards in the prior year, partially offset by an increase in employee compensation of $15.7 million. Product development expense For the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 Product development expense increased primarily due to an increase in compensation expense of $52.0 million, including stock-based compensation, due to increased headcount at both Hinge and Tinder. Depreciation For the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 Depreciation was higher in 2023 as compared to 2022 primarily due to an increase in internally developed software placed in service. 41 Impairments and amortization of intangibles For the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 Impairments and amortization of intangibles decreased primarily due to impairments of both indefinite-lived intangible assets and definite-lived intangible assets in the prior period. Operating Income and Adjusted Operating Income For a reconciliation of net earnings attributable to Match Group, Inc. shareholders to operating income and Adjusted Operating Income, see “Non-GAAP Financial Measures.” For the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 Operating income increased 78% or $401.9 million, and Adjusted Operating Income increased 11% or $129.8 million. Operating income and Adjusted Operated Income each benefited from the increase in revenue of $175.7 million which was driven by growth at Tinder and Hinge, and lower general and administrative expense primarily related to decreases in legal and other professional fees. That benefit was partially offset by increases in selling and marketing spend and an increase in product development expense primarily due to increased compensation expense. Operating income further benefited from decreases in impairments of intangible assets of $316.1 million, partially offset by increased stock-based compensation expense primarily due to new stock-based awards granted during the year. At December 31, 2023, there was $368.9 million of unrecognized compensation cost, net of estimated forfeitures, related to all stock-based awards, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 2.0 years. Interest expense For the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 Interest expense increased primarily due to a higher interest rate on the Term Loan in the current period. 42 Other income (expense), net ________________________ NM = not meaningful Other income, net, in 2023 includes interest income of $26.8 million, partially offset by $7.9 million in net foreign currency losses. Other income, net, in 2022 includes interest income of $4.4 million, gains of $3.5 million related to finalization of a legal settlement, and gains of $2.7 million related to mark-to-market adjustments pertaining to liability classified equity instruments. These items were partially offset by $2.0 million in net foreign currency losses. Income tax provision (benefit) For discussion of income taxes, see “Note 3—Income Taxes” to the consolidated financial statements included in “Item 8—Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” For the year ended December 31, 2023, the Company recorded an income tax provision from continuing operations of $125.3 million at an effective tax rate of 16%, which is lower than the statutory rate primarily due to (i) a release of a valuation allowance associated with U.S. foreign tax credits that we now expect to utilize, (ii) a lower tax rate on U.S. income derived from foreign sources, and (iii) the generation of federal and state research credits. These benefits were partially offset by state income taxes and nondeductible stock-based compensation. For the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company recorded an income tax provision from continuing operations of $15.4 million at an effective tax rate of 4%, which is lower than the statutory rate primarily due to (i) excess tax benefits generated by the exercise and vesting of stock-based awards, (ii) a release of a valuation allowance on certain foreign deferred tax assets that we expect to utilize, (iii) favorable outcomes of tax audits and (iv) a lower tax rate on U.S. income derived from foreign sources. The benefits were partially offset by higher state income taxes due to higher taxable income in the U.S. A number of countries are actively drafting legislation to implement the OECD international tax framework, including the Pillar II minimum tax regime with effect from January 1, 2024 or later. The Company is continuing to monitor these developments and any potential impact on its results of operations. 43 NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES Match Group reports Adjusted Operating Income and Revenue excluding foreign exchange effects, both of which are supplemental measures to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). Adjusted Operating Income is among the primary metrics by which we evaluate the performance of our business, on which our internal budget is based, and by which management is compensated. Revenue excluding foreign exchange effects provides a comparable framework for assessing how our business performed without the effect of exchange rate differences when compared to prior periods. We believe that investors should have access to the same set of tools that we use in analyzing our results. These non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for or superior to GAAP results. Match Group endeavors to compensate for the limitations of the non-GAAP measures presented by providing the comparable GAAP measures with equal or greater prominence and descriptions of the reconciling items, including quantifying such items, to derive the non-GAAP measures. We encourage investors to examine the reconciling adjustments between the GAAP and non-GAAP measures, which we discuss below. Adjusted Operating Income Adjusted Operating Income is defined as operating income excluding: (1) stock-based compensation expense; (2) depreciation; and (3) acquisition-related items consisting of (i) amortization of intangible assets and impairments of goodwill and intangible assets, if applicable, and (ii) gains and losses recognized on changes in the fair value of contingent consideration arrangements, as applicable. We believe this measure is useful to analysts and investors as this measure allows a more meaningful comparison between our performance and that of our competitors. The above items are excluded from our Adjusted Operating Income measure because they are non-cash in nature. Adjusted Operating Income has certain limitations because it excludes the impact of certain expenses. Non-Cash Expenses That Are Excluded From Adjusted Operating Income Stock-based compensation expense consists principally of expense associated with the grants of stock options, restricted stock units (“RSUs”), performance-based RSUs, and market-based awards. These expenses are not paid in cash, and we include the related shares in our fully diluted shares outstanding using the treasury stock method; however, performance-based RSUs and market-based awards are included only to the extent the applicable performance or market condition(s) have been met (assuming the end of the reporting period is the end of the contingency period). To the extent stock-based awards are settled on a net basis, we remit the required tax-withholding amounts from current funds. Depreciation is a non-cash expense relating to our property and equipment and is computed using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of depreciable assets to operations over their estimated useful lives, or, in the case of leasehold improvements, the lease term, if shorter. Amortization of intangible assets and impairments of goodwill and intangible assets are non-cash expenses related primarily to acquisitions. At the time of an acquisition, the identifiable definite-lived intangible assets of the acquired company, such as customer lists, trade names, and technology, are valued and amortized over their estimated lives. Value is also assigned to (i) acquired indefinite-lived intangible assets, which consist of trade names and trademarks, and (ii) goodwill, which are not subject to amortization. An impairment is recorded when the carrying value of an intangible asset or goodwill exceeds its fair value. We believe that intangible assets represent costs incurred by the acquired company to build value prior to acquisition and the related amortization and impairment charges of intangible assets or goodwill, if applicable, are not ongoing costs of doing business. 44 The following table reconciles net earnings attributable to Match Group, Inc. shareholders to operating income and Adjusted Operating Income: Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates on Revenue The impact of foreign exchange rates on the Company, due to its global reach, may be an important factor in understanding period over period comparisons if movement in exchange rates is significant. Since our results are reported in U.S. dollars, international revenue is favorably impacted as the U.S. dollar weakens relative to other currencies, and unfavorably impacted as the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies. We believe the presentation of revenue excluding the effects from foreign exchange, in addition to reported revenue, helps improve investors’ ability to understand the Company’s performance because it excludes the impact of foreign currency volatility that is not indicative of Match Group’s core operating results. Revenue excluding foreign exchange effects compares results between periods as if exchange rates had remained constant period over period. Revenue excluding foreign exchange effects is calculated by translating current period revenue using prior period exchange rates. The percentage change in revenue excluding foreign exchange effects is calculated by determining the change in current period revenue over prior period revenue where current period revenue is translated using prior period exchange rates. 45 The following tables present the impact of foreign exchange effects on total revenue and Direct Revenue by geographic region, and RPP on a total basis and by geographic region, for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022: 46 FINANCIAL POSITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Financial Position Long-term Debt For a detailed description of long-term debt, see “Note 7—Long-term Debt, net” to the consolidated financial statements included in “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Cash Flow Information In summary, the Company’s cash flows from continuing operations are as follows: 2023 Net cash provided by operating activities attributable to continuing operations in 2023 includes adjustments to earnings consisting primarily of $232.1 million of stock-based compensation expense; $61.8 million of depreciation; $47.7 million of impairments and amortization of intangibles; deferred income taxes of 47 $26.6 million; and other adjustments of $9.9 million, which includes amortization of deferred financing costs of $6.5 million. The decrease in cash from changes in working capital primarily consists of an increase in accounts receivable of $107.4 million primarily related to the timing of receipts and an increase in revenue from app stores, and a decrease in deferred revenue of $41.2 million as weekly subscriptions have increased. These decreases in cash were partially offset by an increase to working capital from other assets of $25.1 million. Net cash used in investing activities attributable to continuing operations in 2023 consists primarily of capital expenditures of $67.4 million that are primarily related to internal development of software and computer hardware to support our services. Net cash used in financing activities attributable to continuing operations in 2023 is primarily due to purchases of treasury stock of $546.2 million and payments of $5.9 million of withholding taxes paid on behalf of employees for net-settled stock-based awards. These uses of cash were partially offset by $19.9 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock pursuant to stock-based awards. 2022 Net cash provided by operating activities attributable to continuing operations in 2022 includes adjustments to earnings consisting primarily of $366.3 million of impairments and amortization of intangibles; $203.9 million of stock-based compensation expense; $43.6 million of depreciation; and other adjustments of $7.0 million, which includes amortization of deferred financing costs of $6.7 million. Partially offsetting these adjustments was a deferred income tax benefit of $30.0 million. The decrease in cash from changes in working capital primarily consists of a decrease in accounts payable and other liabilities of $472.6 million due mainly to the settlement payment for Rad, et al. v. IAC/InterActiveCorp, et al. and related arbitrations, and timing of other payments; an increase in accounts receivable of $6.7 million primarily related to increased revenue from mobile applications; and a decrease in deferred revenue of $6.5 million. These uses of cash were partially offset by an increase from other assets of $59.6 million primarily due to the amortization of prepaid hosting services. Net cash used in investing activities attributable to continuing operations in 2022 consists primarily of capital expenditures of $49.1 million that are primarily related to internal development of software and computer hardware to support our services, and cash used in an acquisition, net of cash acquired, of $25.7 million. Net cash used in financing activities attributable to continuing operations in 2022 is primarily due to purchases of treasury stock of $482.0 million, payments of $176.3 million to settle the outstanding 2022 Exchangeable Notes, payments of $109.3 million of withholding taxes paid on behalf of employees for net-settled stock-based awards, purchases of non-controlling interests for $10.6 million, and payments of $7.5 million to settle outstanding warrants associated with the 2022 Exchangeable Notes. These uses of cash were partially offset by proceeds of $75.9 million related to the settlement of certain note hedges associated with the 2022 Exchangeable Notes, and $20.5 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock pursuant to stock-based awards. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company’s principal sources of liquidity are its cash and cash equivalents as well as cash flows generated from operations. At December 31, 2023, $749.6 million was available under the Credit Facility that expires on February 13, 2025. The Company has various obligations related to long-term debt instruments and operating leases. For additional information on long-term debt, including maturity dates and interest rates, see “Note 7—Long-term Debt, net” to the consolidated financial statements included in “Item 8—Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” For additional information on the operating leases, including a schedule of obligations by year, see “Note 13—Leases” to the consolidated financial statements included in “Item 8—Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” The Company believes it has sufficient cash flows from operations to satisfy these future obligations. The Company anticipates that it will need to make capital and other expenditures in connection with the development and expansion of its operations. The Company expects that 2024 cash capital expenditures will be between $55 million and $65 million, relatively flat to 2023 cash capital expenditures. 48 We have entered into various purchase commitments, primarily consisting of web hosting services that are currently committed through December 2026. Our obligations under these various purchase commitments, which were impacted by usage rates in 2023, are $103.2 million for 2024, $85.0 million for 2025, and $14.2 million for 2026. The Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements at December 31, 2023, other than those described above. In May 2022, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program (the “2022 Share Repurchase Program”) to repurchase up to 12.5 million shares of our common stock. On April 28, 2023, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program (the “2023 Share Repurchase Program”) for the repurchase of up to $1.0 billion in aggregate value of shares of Match Group stock, which replaced the 2022 Share Repurchase Program. During the year ended December 31, 2023, we repurchased 13.5 million shares for $546.2 million, on a trade date basis, under the 2022 and 2023 Share Repurchase Programs. On January 30, 2024, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a new share repurchase program (the “2024 Share Repurchase Program”) for the repurchase of up to $1.0 billion in aggregate value of shares of Match Group stock. The 2024 Share Repurchase Program replaces the 2023 Share Repurchase Program. Under the 2024 Share Repurchase Program, shares of our common stock may be purchased on a discretionary basis from time to time, subject to general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or other means, including through Rule 10b5-1 trading plans. The 2024 Share Repurchase Program may be commenced, suspended or discontinued at any time. At December 31, 2023, all of the Company’s international cash can be repatriated without significant tax consequences. Our indebtedness could limit our ability to: (i) obtain additional financing to fund working capital needs, acquisitions, capital expenditures, debt service, or other requirements; and (ii) use operating cash flow to pursue acquisitions or invest in other areas, such as developing properties and exploiting business opportunities. The Company may need to raise additional capital through future debt or equity financing to make additional acquisitions and investments or to provide for greater financial flexibility. Additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to the Company or at all. 49 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The following disclosure is provided to supplement the descriptions of Match Group’s accounting policies contained in “Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the consolidated financial statements included in “Item 8—Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in regard to significant areas of judgment. Management of the Company is required to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions during the preparation of its consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. These estimates, judgments and assumptions impact the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Because of the size of the financial statement elements to which they relate, some of our accounting policies and estimates have a more significant impact on our consolidated financial statements than others. What follows is a discussion of some of our more significant accounting policies and estimates. Business Combinations Acquisitions have historically been an important part of our growth strategy. The purchase price of each acquisition is attributed to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their fair values at the date of acquisition, including identifiable intangible assets that either arise from a contractual or legal right or are separable from goodwill. The fair value of these intangible assets is based on valuations that use information and assumptions provided by management. The excess purchase price over the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets is recorded as goodwill and is assigned to the reporting unit that is expected to benefit from the combination as of the acquisition date. Recoverability of Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets Goodwill is the Company’s largest asset with a carrying value of $2.3 billion at each of December 31, 2023 and 2022, representing 52% and 56%, respectively, of the Company’s total assets. Indefinite-lived intangible assets, which consist of certain of the Company’s acquired trade names and trademarks, have a carrying value of $183.1 million and $189.0 million at December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are assessed annually for impairment as of October 1, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit or the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset below its carrying value. In performing its annual goodwill impairment assessment, the Company has the option under GAAP to qualitatively assess whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value; if the conclusion of the qualitative assessment is that there are no indicators of impairment, the Company does not perform a quantitative test, which would require a valuation of the reporting unit, as of October 1. If needed, the annual or interim quantitative test of the recovery of goodwill involves a comparison of the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, an impairment loss equal to the excess is recorded. The 2023 and 2022 annual assessments did not identify any goodwill impairments. The Company has a negative carrying value for the Company’s annual goodwill test at both October 1, 2023 and 2022. Additionally, an impairment test of goodwill was not necessary because there were no factors identified that would indicate an impairment loss. The Company continued to have a negative carrying value at December 31, 2023. The Company has the option to qualitatively assess whether it is more likely than not that the fair values of its indefinite-lived intangible assets are less than their carrying values. For certain indefinite-lived intangible assets, for which the fair value as of the most recent assessment date significantly exceeded the carrying value, the Company performed a qualitative impairment assessment as of October 1, 2023 and concluded that it was more likely than not that the fair values of those indefinite-lived intangible assets continued to exceed the carrying values. For assets in which a quantitative assessment is performed, the Company determines the fair value of its indefinite-lived intangible assets using an avoided royalty discounted cash flow (“DCF”) valuation analysis. Significant judgments inherent in this analysis include the selection of appropriate royalty and discount rates and estimating the amount and timing of expected future cash flows. The discount rates used in the DCF analyses are intended to reflect the risks inherent in the expected future cash flows generated by the respective 50 intangible assets. The royalty rates used in the DCF analyses are based upon an estimate of the royalty rates that a market participant would pay to license the specific trade names and trademarks. The future cash flows are based on the Company’s most recent forecast and budget and, for years beyond the budget, the Company’s estimates are based, in part, on forecasted growth rates. Assumptions used in the avoided royalty DCF analyses, including the discount rate and royalty rate, are assessed at least annually based on the actual and projected cash flows related to the asset, as well as macroeconomic and industry specific factors. The discount rates used in the Company’s quantitative assessments as part of the annual indefinite-lived impairment assessment ranged from 15% to 18% in 2023 and 12% to 16% in 2022, and the royalty rates used ranged from 3% to 8% in both 2023 and 2022. If the carrying value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its estimated fair value, an impairment equal to the excess is recorded. During the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company recognized impairment charges of $244.3 million related to the Azar and Hakuna brands at Hyperconnect, $43.9 million related to the Meetic and Match brands in Europe, and $5.5 million related to certain affinity brands in the U.S. These impairments were primarily due to a decline in projections related to a lower outlook for the businesses at that time, including foreign currency impacts in certain of Hyperconnect’s key markets, as well as the use of increased discount rates as a result of an increase in risk-free rates and overall market volatility in general. At December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, the aggregate indefinite-lived intangible asset balance for which the estimate of fair value at that time was less than 110% of their carrying values was approximately $76.5 million and $84.3 million, respectively. In connection with the annual impairment assessment, the Company reviews the useful lives for intangible assets and whether events or changes in circumstances indicate that an indefinite life may no longer be appropriate. As of October 1, 2022, the Company reclassified certain indefinite-lived intangible assets with a carrying value of $49.9 million to the definite-lived intangible asset category because these assets were no longer considered to have an indefinite life. Recoverability and Estimated Useful Lives of Definite-lived Intangible Assets We review the carrying value of all definite-lived intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. The carrying value of a definite-lived intangible asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. If the carrying value is deemed not to be recoverable, an impairment loss is recorded equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the definite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value. In addition, the Company reviews the useful lives of its definite-lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that these lives may be changed. During the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company recognized an impairment charge related to Hyperconnect intangible assets with definitive lives of $25.8 million, which is included within impairment and amortization of intangibles. The carrying value of definite-lived intangible assets was $122.7 million and $168.7 million, at December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Income Taxes Match Group is subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and income tax assets and liabilities, including evaluating uncertainties in the application of accounting principles and complex tax laws. We record a provision for income taxes for the anticipated tax consequences of our reported results of operations using the asset and liability method. Under this method, we recognize deferred income tax assets and liabilities for the future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of asset and liabilities, as well as for net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be realized or settled. We recognize the deferred income tax effects of a change in tax rates in the period of enactment. A valuation allowance is provided on deferred tax assets if it is determined that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset will not be realized. We consider all available evidence, both positive and negative, 51 including historical levels of income, expectations and risks associated with estimates of future taxable income, and tax planning strategies in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. We recognize tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only if we believe that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained based on the technical merits of the position. Such tax benefits are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement. This measurement step is inherently difficult and requires subjective estimations of such amounts to determine the probability of various possible outcomes. We consider many factors when evaluating and estimating our tax positions and tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustment. We make adjustments to our unrecognized tax benefits when facts and circumstances change, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. Although we believe that we have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions, the final outcome of these matters may vary significantly from our estimates. To the extent that the final outcome of these matters is different from the amounts recorded, such differences will affect the income tax provision in the period in which such determination is made, and could have a material impact on our financial condition and operating results. Stock-Based Compensation The Company recorded stock-based compensation expense of $232.1 million and $203.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Accounting for stock-based compensation at the Company is often complex due to our desire to attract, retain, and reward employees at many of our brands by allowing them to benefit from the value they help to create. We also utilize stock-based awards as part of our acquisition strategy. We accomplish these objectives, in part, by issuing awards denominated in the equity of our non-public subsidiaries as well as in Match Group, Inc. We further refine this approach by tailoring the terms of awards as appropriate. For example, we issue certain awards with vesting conditioned on the achievement of specified performance targets such as revenue or profits; these awards are referred to as performance awards. In other cases, we condition the vesting of awards to the achievement of value targets for a specific subsidiary or the Company’s stock price; these awards are referred to as market-based awards. The Company issues RSUs and performance-based RSUs (“PSUs”). The value of RSUs with vesting subject only to continued service is based on the fair value of Match Group common stock on the grant date. The value of RSUs that include a market condition is based on fair value estimated using a lattice model. The value of RSUs is expensed as stock-based compensation expense over the applicable vesting term. For PSU awards, the expense is measured at the grant date as the fair value of Match Group common stock and expensed as stock-based compensation over the vesting term if the performance targets are considered probable of being achieved. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements, see “Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the consolidated financial statements included in “Item 8—Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 52