********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or operating results could be adversely affected. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY Economic conditions and market factors, which are beyond our control, may adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our business performance is impacted by a number of factors, including general economic conditions, current or expected inflation, interest rate fluctuations, market volatility, changes in investment patterns and priorities, pandemics and other factors that are generally beyond our control. To the extent that global or national economic conditions weaken and result in slower growth or recessions, our business may be negatively impacted. Adverse market conditions could reduce customer demand for our services and the ability of our customers, lenders and other counterparties to meet their obligations to us. Poor economic conditions may result in a reduction in the demand for our products and services, including our market technology, fraud detection, AML and surveillance solutions, data, indices and corporate solutions, or could result in a decline in the number of IPOs, reduced trading volumes or values and deterioration of the economic welfare of our listed companies, which could cause an increase in delistings. Trading volumes and values are driven primarily by general market conditions and declines in trading volumes or values may affect our market share and impact our pricing. In addition, our Market Services businesses receive revenues from a relatively small number of customers concentrated in the financial industry, so any event that impacts one or more customers or the financial industry in general could impact our revenues. The number of listings on our markets is primarily influenced by factors such as investor demand, the global economy, available sources of financing, and tax and regulatory policies. Adverse conditions may jeopardize the ability of our listed companies to comply with the continued listing requirements of our exchanges, or reduce the number of issuers launching IPOs, including SPACs, and direct listings. The number of IPOs on our exchanges decreased in both 2023 and 2022, and the number of delistings increased in 2023. Our Capital Access Platforms revenues may be significantly affected by global economic conditions. Professional subscriptions to our data products are at risk if staff reductions occur in financial services companies or if our customers consolidate, which could result in significant reductions in our professional user revenue or expose us to increased risks relating to dependence on a smaller number of 18 customers. In addition, adverse market conditions may cause reductions in the number of non-professional investors with investments in the market and in ETP AUM tracking Nasdaq indices as well as trading in futures linked to Nasdaq indices. There may be less demand for our analytics, corporate solutions, market technology and risk and regulatory products and services if global economic conditions remain weak. Our customers historically reduce purchases of new services and technology when growth rates decline, thereby diminishing our opportunities to sell new products and services or upgrade existing products and services. Additionally, during a global economic downturn, or periods of economic, political or regulatory uncertainty, our sales cycle may become longer or more unpredictable due to customer budget constraints or unplanned administrative delays to approve purchases. A reduction in trading volumes or values, market share of trading, the number of our listed companies, or demand for our products and services due to economic conditions or other market factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. The industries we operate in are highly competitive. We face significant competition in our Capital Access Platforms, Financial Technology and Market Services segments from other market participants. We face intense competition from other exchanges and markets for market share of trading activity and listings. This competition includes both product and price competition. The liberalization and globalization of world markets has resulted in greater mobility of capital, greater international participation in local markets and more competition. As a result, both in the U.S. and in other countries, the competition among exchanges and other execution venues has become more intense. Marketplaces in both Europe and the U.S. have also merged to achieve greater economies of scale and scope. Regulatory changes also have facilitated the entry of new participants in the European Union that compete with our European markets. The regulatory environment, both in the U.S. and in Europe, is structured to maintain this environment of intense competition. In addition, a high proportion of business in the securities markets is becoming concentrated in a smaller number of institutions and our revenue may therefore become concentrated in a smaller number of customers. We also compete globally with other regulated exchanges and markets, ATSs, MTFs and other traditional and non-traditional execution venues. Some of these competitors also are our customers. Competitors may develop market trading platforms that are more competitive than ours. Competitors may leverage data more effectively or enter into strategic partnerships, mergers or acquisitions that could make their trading, listings, clearing, data or technology businesses more competitive than ours. We face intense price competition in all areas of our business. In particular, the trading industry is characterized by price competition. We have in the past lowered prices, and in the U.S., increased rebates for trade executions to attempt to gain or maintain market share. These strategies have not always been successful and have at times hurt operating performance. Additionally, we have also been, and may once again be, required to adjust pricing to respond to actions by competitors and new entrants, or due to new SEC regulations, which could adversely impact operating results. We also compete with respect to the pricing of data products and with respect to products for pre-trade book data and for post-trade last sale data. If we are unable to compete successfully in the industries in which we do business, our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected. System limitations or failures could harm our business. Our businesses depend on the integrity and performance of the technology, computer and communications systems supporting them. If new systems fail to operate as intended or our existing systems cannot expand to cope with increased demand or otherwise fail to perform, we could experience unanticipated disruptions in service, slower response times and delays in the introduction of new products and services. We could experience a systems failure due to human error by our employees, contractors or vendors, electrical or telecommunications failures or disruptions, hardware or software failures or defects, cyberattacks, sabotage or similar unexpected events. These consequences could result in service outages, lower trading volumes or values, financial losses, decreased customer satisfaction, litigation and regulatory sanctions. Our markets and the markets that rely on our technology have experienced systems failures and delays in the past and we could experience future systems failures and delays. Although we currently maintain and expect to maintain multiple computer facilities, and leverage third party cloud providers, that are designed to provide redundancy and back-up to reduce the risk of system disruptions and have facilities in place that are expected to maintain service during a system disruption, such systems and facilities may prove inadequate. If trading volumes increase unexpectedly or other unanticipated events occur, we may need to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure. We do not know whether we will be able to accurately project the rate, timing or cost of any volume increases, or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate any increases in a timely manner. 19 While we have programs in place to identify and minimize our exposure to vulnerabilities and work in collaboration with the technology industry to share corrective measures with our business partners, we cannot guarantee that such events will not occur in the future. Any system issue that causes an interruption in services, decreases the responsiveness of our services or otherwise affects our services could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and negatively impact our business, financial condition and operating results. We must continue to introduce new products, initiatives and enhancements to maintain our competitive position. We intend to launch new products and initiatives and continue to explore and pursue opportunities to strengthen our business and grow our company. We may spend substantial time and money developing new products, initiatives and enhancements to existing products. If these products and initiatives are not successful or their launches are delayed, we may not be able to offset their costs, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In our technology operations, we have invested substantial amounts in the development of system platforms, the rollout of our platforms and the adoption of new technologies, including cloud-based infrastructure and artificial intelligence for certain of our offerings. Although investments are carefully planned, there can be no assurance that the demand for such platforms or technologies will justify the related investments. If we fail to generate adequate revenue from planned system platforms or the adoption of new technologies, or if we fail to do so within the envisioned timeframe, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, clients may delay purchases in anticipation of new products or enhancements. We may allocate significant amounts of cash and other resources to product technologies or business models for which market demand is lower than anticipated. In addition, the introduction of new products by competitors, the emergence of new industry standards or the development of entirely new technologies to replace existing product offerings could render our existing or future products obsolete. A decline in trading and clearing volumes or values or market share will decrease our trading and clearing revenues. Trading and clearing volumes and values are directly affected by economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in business and finance, unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading, the level and volatility of interest rates, inflation, changes in price levels of securities and the overall level of investor confidence. Over the past several years, trading and clearing volumes and values across our markets have fluctuated significantly depending on market conditions and other factors beyond our control. Because a significant percentage of our revenues is tied directly to the volume or value of securities traded and cleared on our markets, it is likely that a general decline in trading and clearing volumes or values would lower revenues and may adversely affect our operating results if we are unable to offset falling volumes or values through pricing changes. Declines in trading and clearing volumes or values may also impact our market share or pricing structures and adversely affect our business and financial condition. If our total market share in securities decreases relative to our competitors, our venues may be viewed as less attractive sources of liquidity. If our exchanges are perceived to be less liquid, then our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Since some of our exchanges offer clearing services in addition to trading services, a decline in market share of trading could lead to a decline in clearing and depository revenues. Declines in market share also could result in issuers viewing the value of a listing on our exchanges as less attractive, thereby adversely affecting our listing business. Finally, declines in market share of Nasdaq-listed securities, or recently adopted SEC rules and regulations, could lower The Nasdaq Stock Market’s share of tape pool revenues under the consolidated data plans, thereby reducing the revenues of our U.S. Tape plans business. Our role in the global marketplace positions us at greater risk for a cyberattack. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or disruption from security breaches. Due to our adoption of a hybrid work environment, we have a broader and more distributed network footprint and increased reliance on the home networks of employees, and such remote work may cause heightened cybersecurity and operational risks. Some of these threats include attacks from foreign governments, hacktivists, insiders and criminal organizations. Foreign governments may seek to obtain a foothold in U.S. critical infrastructure, hacktivists may seek to deploy denial of service attacks to bring attention to their cause, insiders may pose a risk of human error or malicious activity and criminal organizations may seek to profit from stolen data. Computer malware, such as viruses and worms, also continue to be a threat with ransomware increasingly being used by criminals to extort money. Given our position in the global securities industry, we may be more likely than other companies to be a direct target, or an indirect casualty, of such events. While we continue to employ and invest additional resources to monitor our systems and protect our infrastructure, these measures may prove insufficient depending upon the attack or threat posed. Any system issue, whether as a result of an intentional breach, collateral damage from a new virus or a non-malicious act, the use of artificial intelligence by bad actors, including the use of such tools to engage in social engineering or similar activities, or due to a cybersecurity breach of a customer that results in a loss of our data or compromises our systems or those of our other customers utilizing the same products, could damage our reputation and result in: a loss of customers; disrupted customer relationships; the loss of our intellectual property or sensitive 20 data; lower trading volumes or values, significant liabilities, litigation or regulatory fines or otherwise have a negative impact on our business, our products and services, financial condition and operating results. Further, cybersecurity incidents that impact our vendors and other third parties that support our organization and industry could directly or indirectly impact us. For example, a data breach involving one of our vendors occurred in 2023, and was identified and mitigated by the vendor before material damage to Nasdaq occurred. There can be no assurance we will be able to identify and mitigate every incident involving cybersecurity attacks, breaches or incidents. A system breach may go undetected for an extended period of time. Expanded cybersecurity regulations, and increased cybersecurity infrastructure and compliance costs, may adversely impact our results of operations. As cybersecurity threats continue to increase in frequency and sophistication, and as the domestic and international regulatory and compliance structure related to information, cybersecurity, data privacy and data usage becomes increasingly complex and exacting, we may be required to devote significant additional resources to strengthen our cybersecurity capabilities, and to identify and remediate any security vulnerabilities. Compliance with laws and regulations concerning cybersecurity, data privacy and data usage could result in significant expense, and any failure to comply could result in proceedings against us by regulatory authorities or other third parties. Costs for bolstering cybersecurity capabilities, and increased cybersecurity and data privacy compliance costs, could adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. Additionally, our clients increasingly demand rigorous contractual, certification and audit provisions regarding cybersecurity, data protection and data usage, which may also increase our overall compliance burden and costs in meeting such obligations. The success of our business depends on our ability to keep up with rapid technological and other competitive changes affecting our industry. Specifically, we must complete development of, successfully implement and maintain platforms that have the functionality, performance, capacity, reliability and speed required by our business and our regulators, as well as by our customers. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards, frequent enhancements to existing products and services, the adoption of new services and products and changing customer demands. We are reliant on our customers that purchase our on-premise solutions to maintain a certain level of network infrastructure for our products to operate and to allow for our support of those products, and there is no assurance that a customer will implement such measures. We may not be able to keep up with rapid technological and other competitive changes affecting our industry. For example, we must continue to enhance our platforms to remain competitive as well as to address our regulatory responsibilities, and our business will be negatively affected if our platforms or the technology solutions we sell to our customers fail to function as expected. If we are unable to develop our platforms to include other products and markets, or if our platforms do not have the required functionality, performance, capacity, reliability and speed required by our business and our regulators, as well as by our customers, we may not be able to compete successfully. Further, our failure to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and customer preferences or any significant delays in product development efforts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our artificial intelligence initiatives under development and the use of artificial intelligence in certain of our existing products may be unsuccessful and may give rise to various risks, which could adversely affect our business, reputation, or operating results. We are making significant investments in artificial intelligence, or AI, including generative AI, to, among other things, develop new products or features for our existing products, including our anti-financial crime, investor relations and investment analytics solutions, and to enhance and refine our internal business operations. As AI is a new and evolving technology in the early stages of commercial use, there are significant risks involved in the development and deployment of AI, and there can be no assurance that the use of AI will enhance our products or services or augment our business or operating results. Market acceptance of AI technologies is uncertain, and we may be unsuccessful in our product development efforts. Moreover, our AI-related product initiatives and offerings, or use in our internal business operations, may give rise to risks related to harmful content, accuracy, bias, discrimination, intellectual property infringement, the ability to obtain intellectual property protection, misappropriation or leakage, defamation, data privacy, and cybersecurity, among others. In addition, these risks include the possibility of new or enhanced laws or regulations, for which compliance may be costly and burdensome or involve litigation or other legal liability, or additional oversight, audits or enforcement under existing laws or regulations. The use of AI may also give rise to ethical concerns or negative public perceptions, which may cause brand or reputational harm. Additionally, our competitors may be developing their own AI products and technologies, which may be superior in features or functionality, or cost, to our offerings. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business, reputation, or operating results. Failure to attract and retain key personnel may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Our future success depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified and skilled professional personnel that can learn and embrace new technologies. In the current tight labor market, we have intensified our efforts to recruit and retain talent. Competition for key personnel in 21 the various localities and business segments in which we operate is intense. We have, and may continue to, experience higher compensation costs to retain personnel, and hire new talent, that may not be offset by improved productivity, higher revenues or increased sales. Our ability to attract and retain key personnel, in particular senior officers or technology personnel, including from companies that we acquire, will be dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market conditions, office/remote working arrangements and compensation and benefit packages offered by companies competing for the same talent. There is no guarantee that we will have the continued service of key employees who we rely upon to execute our business strategy and identify and pursue strategic opportunities and initiatives. Our ability to execute our business strategy could be impaired if we are unable to replace such persons without incurring significant costs or in a timely manner or at all. Our clearinghouse operations expose us to risks, including credit or liquidity risks that may include defaults by clearing members, or insufficiencies in margins or default funds. We are subject to risks relating to our operation of a clearinghouse, including counterparty and liquidity risks, risk of defaults by clearing members and risks associated with adequacy of the customer margin and of default funds. Our clearinghouse operations expose us to counterparties with differing risk profiles. We may be adversely impacted by the financial distress or failure of a clearing member, which may cause us negative financial impact, reputational harm or regulatory consequences, including litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. We are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. We are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. We clear a range of equity-related and fixed-income-related derivative products, commodities and resale and repurchase agreements. We assume the counterparty risk for all transactions that are cleared through Nasdaq Clearing on our markets and guarantee that our cleared contracts will be honored. We enforce minimum financial and operational criteria for membership eligibility, require members and investors to provide collateral, and maintain established risk policies and procedures to ensure that the counterparty risks are properly monitored and proactively managed; however, none of these measures provides absolute assurance against experiencing financial losses from defaults by our counterparties on their obligations. No guarantee can be given that the collateral provided will at all times be sufficient. Although we maintain clearing capital resources to serve as an additional layer of protection to help ensure that we are able to meet our obligations, these resources also may not be sufficient. We also have credit risk related to transaction and subscription-based revenues that are billed to customers on a monthly or quarterly basis, in arrears. Credit losses such as those described above could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. Technology issues relating to our role as exclusive processor for Nasdaq-listed stocks could affect our business. Nasdaq, as technology provider to the UTP Operating Committee, has implemented measures to enhance the resiliency of the existing processor system. Nasdaq transferred the processor technology platform to our INET platform and this migration further enhanced the resiliency of the processor systems. However, if future outages occur or the processor systems fail to function properly while we are operating the systems, it could have an adverse effect on our business, reputation and financial condition. Stagnation or decline in the listings market could have an adverse effect on our revenues. The market for listings is dependent on the prosperity of companies and the availability of risk capital. A stagnation or decline in the number of new listings, or an increase in the number of delistings, on The Nasdaq Stock Market and the Nasdaq Nordic and Nasdaq Baltic exchanges could cause a decrease in revenues for future years. In 2023, we again experienced a decrease in new listings from IPOs, including SPACs, and an increase in delistings. A prolonged decrease in the number of listings, or failure of existing SPACs to successfully complete transactions with target companies and dissolve, could negatively impact the growth of our revenues. Our Corporate Solutions business is also impacted by declines in the listings market or increases in acquisitions activity as there may be fewer publicly-traded customers that need our products. RISKS RELATED TO TRANSACTIONAL ACTIVITIES AND STRATEGIC RELATIONSHIPS We may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses, which may result in an inability to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. We must rationalize, coordinate and integrate the operations of our acquired businesses, including the acquisition of Adenza, which was completed in November 2023. This process involves complex technological, operational and personnel-related challenges, which are time-consuming and expensive and may disrupt our business. The difficulties, costs and delays that could be encountered may include: • difficulties, costs or complications in combining the companies’ operations, including technology platforms, and security measures and infrastructure that may need greater remediation than anticipated, which could lead to us not achieving the synergies we anticipate or customers not renewing their contracts with us as we migrate platforms; 22 • incompatibility of systems and operating methods; • reliance on, or provision of, transition services; • inability to use capital assets efficiently to develop the business of the combined company; • difficulties of complying with government-imposed regulations in the U.S. and abroad, which may be conflicting; • resolving possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures; • the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns and other strategic opportunities; • difficulties in operating businesses we have not operated before; • difficulties of integrating multiple acquired businesses simultaneously; • the retention of key employees and management; • the implementation of disclosure controls, internal controls and financial reporting systems at non-U.S. subsidiaries to enable us to comply with U.S. GAAP and U.S. securities laws and regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, required as a result of our status as a reporting company under the Exchange Act; • the coordination of geographically separate organizations; • the coordination and consolidation of ongoing and future research and development efforts; • possible tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of a combined company; • pre-tax restructuring and revenue investment costs; • the retention of strategic partners and attracting new strategic partners; and • negative impacts on employee morale and performance as a result of job changes and reassignments. Foreign acquisitions, or acquisitions involving companies with numerous foreign subsidiaries, involve risks in addition to those mentioned above, including those related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, our ability to enforce contracts in various jurisdictions, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. We may not be able to address these risks successfully, or at all, without incurring significant costs, delays or other operating problems that could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. For these reasons, we may not achieve the anticipated financial and strategic benefits from our acquisitions and strategic initiatives. Any actual cost savings and synergies may be lower than we expect and may take a longer time to achieve than we anticipate, and we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions. We rely on third parties to perform certain functions, and our business could be adversely affected if these third parties fail to perform as expected or experience service interruptions affecting our operations. We rely on third parties for regulatory, data center, cloud computing, data storage and processing, connectivity, data content, clearing, maintaining markets and exchange liquidity and other services. Interruptions or delays in services from our third-party providers could impair the delivery of our services and harm our business. To the extent that any of our vendors or other third-party service providers experiences difficulties or a significant disruption, breach or outage, materially changes their business relationship with us or is unable for any reason to perform their obligations, including due to geopolitical instability, our business or our reputation may be materially adversely affected. Our access to cloud service provider infrastructure could be limited by a number of events, including technical or infrastructure failures, natural disasters or cybersecurity attacks. As we continue to grow our SaaS businesses, our dependency on the continuing operation and availability of these cloud service providers increases. If our cloud services from third party providers are unavailable to us for any reason, or there are cloud service disruptions or a delay or inability to access our exchanges, platforms or certain of our cloud products or features, such unavailability or delays may adversely affect our clients, which could significantly impact our reputation, operations, business, and financial results. For example, in 2023, we continued to migrate our North American markets to AWS in a phased approach, as we added two additional exchanges to our cloud-enabled infrastructure. AWS operates a platform that we use to provide services to our clients, and therefore we are vulnerable to service outages on the AWS platform that affect Nasdaq workloads running or stored in the AWS environment. If AWS does not deliver our system requirements on time, fails to provide maintenance and support to our specifications or a migration experiences integration challenges, the successful migration of our exchanges to the AWS cloud platform may be significantly delayed, which may adversely affect our reputation and financial results. We also rely on members of our trading community to maintain markets and add liquidity. To the extent that any of our largest members experience difficulties, materially change their business relationship with us or are unable for any reason to perform market making activities, our business or our reputation may be materially adversely affected. 23 We may be required to recognize impairments of our goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets in the future. Our business acquisitions typically result in the recording of goodwill and intangible assets, and the recorded values of those assets may become impaired in the future. As of December 31, 2023, goodwill totaled $14.1 billion and intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, totaled $7.4 billion. The determination of the value of such goodwill and intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. We assess goodwill and intangible assets, as well as other long-lived assets, including equity method investments, equity securities, and property and equipment, for potential impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if indicators of impairment arise. We estimate the fair value of such assets by assessing many factors, including historical performance and projected cash flows. Considerable management judgment is necessary to project future cash flows and evaluate the impact of expected operating and macroeconomic changes on these cash flows. The estimates and assumptions we use are consistent with our internal planning process. However, there are inherent uncertainties in these estimates. There were no impairment charges recorded relating to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets and there were no material impairment charges recorded relating to other long-lived assets in 2023, 2022 and 2021. We may experience future events that may result in asset impairments. Future disruptions to our business, prolonged economic weakness, due to pandemics or otherwise, or significant declines in operating results at any of our reporting units or businesses, may result in impairment charges to goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets. A significant impairment charge in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Acquisitions, divestments, investments, joint ventures and other transactional activities may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities. Over the past several years, acquisitions, such as Adenza, have been, or are expected to be, significant factors in our growth. We have divested businesses and may continue to divest additional businesses or assets in the future. Although we cannot predict our transactional activities, we believe that additional acquisitions, divestments, investments, joint ventures and other transactional activities will be important to our strategy. Such transactions may be material in size and scope. Other potential purchasers of assets in our industry may have greater financial resources than we have. Therefore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to complete future transactions on terms favorable to us. We also invest in early-stage companies through our Nasdaq Ventures program and hold minority interests in other entities. Given the size of these investments, we do not have operational control of these entities and may have limited visibility into risk management practices. Thus, we may be subject to additional capital requirements in certain circumstances and financial and reputational risks if there are operational failures. We may finance future transactions by issuing additional equity and/or debt. The issuance of additional equity in connection with any such transaction could be substantially dilutive to existing shareholders. In addition, the announcement or implementation of future transactions by us or others could have a material effect on the price of our common stock. The issuance of additional debt could increase our leverage substantially. Additional debt may reduce our liquidity, curtail our access to financing markets, impact our standing with credit rating agencies and increase the cash flow required for debt service. Any incremental debt incurred to finance a transaction could also place significant constraints on the operation of our business. Furthermore, any future transactions could entail a number of additional risks, including: • the inability to maintain key pre-transaction business relationships; • increased operating costs; • the inability to meet our target for return on invested capital; • increased debt obligations, which may adversely affect our targeted debt ratios; • risks to the continued achievement of our strategic direction; • risks associated with divesting employees, customers or vendors when divesting businesses or assets; • declines in the value of investments; • exposure to unanticipated liabilities, including after a transaction is completed; • incurred but unreported claims for an acquired company; • difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; and • changes in our credit rating and financing costs. RISKS RELATED TO LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES A downgrade of our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets. Our debt is currently rated investment grade by two of the major rating agencies. These rating agencies regularly evaluate us, and their ratings of our long-term debt and commercial paper are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength and corporate development activity, as well as factors not entirely within our control, including 24 conditions affecting our industry generally. There can be no assurance that we will maintain our current ratings. Our failure to maintain such ratings could reduce or eliminate our ability to issue commercial paper and adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. A reduction in credit ratings would also result in increases in the cost of our commercial paper and other outstanding debt as the interest rate on the outstanding amounts under our credit facilities and our senior notes fluctuates based on our credit ratings. Our leverage limits our financial flexibility, increases our exposure to weakening economic conditions and may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing. Our indebtedness as of December 31, 2023 was $10.5 billion. We may borrow additional amounts by utilizing available liquidity under our existing credit facilities, issuing additional debt securities or issuing short-term, unsecured commercial paper notes through our commercial paper program. Our leverage and reliance on the capital markets could: • reduce funds available to us for operations and general corporate purposes or for capital expenditures as a result of the dedication of a substantial portion of our consolidated cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness; • increase our exposure to a continued downturn in general economic conditions; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors with less debt; • affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for refinancing indebtedness, acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes; and • increase our cost of debt and reduce or eliminate our ability to issue commercial paper. In addition, we must comply with the covenants in our credit facilities. Among other things, these covenants restrict our ability to effect certain fundamental transactions, dispose of certain assets, incur additional indebtedness and grant liens on assets. Failure to meet any of the covenant terms of our credit facilities could result in an event of default. If an event of default occurs, and we are unable to receive a waiver of default, our lenders may increase our borrowing costs, restrict our ability to obtain additional borrowings and accelerate repayment of all amounts outstanding. We will need to invest in our operations to maintain and grow our business and to integrate acquisitions, and we may need additional funds, which may not be readily available. We depend on the availability of adequate capital to maintain and develop our business. Although we believe that we can meet our current capital requirements from internally generated funds, cash on hand and borrowings under our revolving credit facility and commercial paper program, if the capital and credit markets experience volatility, access to capital or credit may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Rising interest rates could adversely affect our ability to pursue new financing opportunities, and it may be more expensive for us to issue new debt securities. Limited access to capital or credit in the future could have an impact on our ability to refinance debt, maintain our credit rating, meet our regulatory capital requirements, engage in strategic initiatives, make acquisitions or strategic investments in other companies, pay dividends, repurchase our stock or react to changing economic and business conditions. If we are unable to fund our capital or credit requirements, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition to our debt obligations, we will need to continue to invest in our operations for the foreseeable future to integrate acquired businesses and to fund new initiatives. If we do not achieve the expected operating results, we will need to reallocate our cash resources. This may include borrowing additional funds to service debt payments, which may impair our ability to make investments in our business or to integrate acquired businesses. If we need to raise funds through incurring additional debt, we may become subject to covenants more restrictive than those contained in our credit facilities, the indentures governing our notes and our other debt instruments. Furthermore, if adverse economic conditions occur, we could experience decreased revenues from our operations which could affect our ability to satisfy financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing indebtedness. RISKS RELATED TO LEGAL AND REGULATORY MATTERS We operate in a highly regulated industry and may be subject to censures, fines and enforcement proceedings if we fail to comply with regulatory obligations that can be ambiguous and can change unexpectedly. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to extensive regulation in the U.S., Europe and Canada. The securities trading industry is subject to significant regulatory oversight and could be subject to increased governmental and public scrutiny in the future that can change in response to global conditions and events, or due to changes in trading patterns, such as due to the recent volatility involving the trading of certain stocks. Our ability to comply with complex and changing regulation is largely dependent on our establishment and maintenance of compliance, audit and reporting systems that can quickly adapt and respond, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance and other risk management personnel. There is no assurance that our policies and procedures will always be effective or that we will always be successful in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are or may be exposed. 25 Our regulated markets are subject to audits, investigations, administrative proceedings and enforcement actions relating to compliance with applicable rules and regulations. Regulators have broad powers to impose fines, penalties or censure, issue cease-and-desist orders, prohibit operations, revoke licenses or registrations and impose other sanctions on our exchanges, broker-dealers, central securities depositories, clearinghouse and markets for violations of applicable requirements. In the future, we could be subject to regulatory investigations or enforcement proceedings that could result in substantial sanctions, including revocation of our operating licenses. Any such investigations or proceedings, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs, the diversion of resources, including management time, and potential harm to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, our exchanges could be required to modify or restructure their regulatory functions in response to any changes in the regulatory environment, or they may be required to rely on third parties to perform regulatory and oversight functions, each of which may require us to incur substantial expenses and may harm our reputation if our regulatory services are deemed inadequate. The regulatory framework under which we operate and new regulatory requirements or new interpretations of existing regulatory requirements could require substantial time and resources for compliance, which could make it difficult and costly for us to operate our business. Under current U.S. federal securities laws, changes in the rules and operations of our securities markets, including our pricing structure, must be reviewed and in many cases explicitly approved by the SEC. The SEC may approve, disapprove, or recommend changes to proposals that we submit. In addition, the SEC may delay either the approval process or the initiation of the public comment process. Favorable SEC rulings and interpretations can be challenged in and reversed by federal courts of appeals, reducing or eliminating the value of such prior interpretations. Any delay in approving changes, or the altering of any proposed change, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We must compete not only with non-exchanges, such as ATSs that are not subject to the same SEC approval requirements and processes, but also with other exchanges that may have lower regulation and surveillance costs than us. There is a risk that trading will shift to exchanges or non-exchanges that charge lower fees because, among other reasons, they spend significantly less on regulation. In 2016, the SEC approved a plan for Nasdaq and other exchanges to establish a CAT to improve regulators’ ability to monitor trading activity. In addition to increased regulatory obligations, implementation of a CAT has resulted in significant additional expenditures, including to implement the new technology to meet many of the plan’s requirements. Creating the CAT has required the development and implementation of complex and costly technology. This development effort has been funded by the SROs (including Nasdaq) in exchange for promissory notes. In September 2023, the SEC approved a “Funding Model” for the CAT that allocated one-third of CAT expenses to the SROs, including Nasdaq, and two-thirds of CAT expenses to the industry. This SEC approval order has been appealed to the 11th Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals, and the appeal remains pending. In January 2024, the SROs submitted filings, which remain pending, to the SEC to establish the rate at which the industry would reimburse the SROs for its two-thirds share of CAT expenses. Those two pending matters could be resolved unfavorably to the SEC and to the SROs, resulting in a delay in recovering expenses or the inability to recover those expenses. As of December 31, 2023, we have accrued a net receivable of $115 million in connection with our portion of expenses related to the CAT implementation. In addition, the ongoing failure to timely launch or properly operate such technology exposes Nasdaq and other exchanges to SEC fines. In addition, our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the SEC, FINRA and other SROs. These subsidiaries are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which require that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. The SEC and FINRA impose rules that require notification when a broker-dealer’s net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. Additionally, the SEC’s Uniform Net Capital Rule and FINRA rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the SEC and FINRA for certain withdrawals of capital. Any failure to comply with these broker-dealer regulations could have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business, financial condition and operating results. Our non-U.S. business is subject to regulatory oversight in all the countries in which we operate regulated businesses, such as exchanges, clearinghouses or central securities depositories. In these countries, we have received authorization from the relevant authorities to conduct our regulated business activities. The authorities may issue regulatory fines or may ultimately revoke our authorizations if we do not suitably carry out our regulated business activities. The authorities are also entitled to request that we adopt measures in order to ensure that we continue to fulfill the authorities’ requirements. We are also subject to current and forthcoming regulations applicable to the financial services sector generally including, but not limited to, the Digital Operational Resilience Act, or DORA, which will become effective in 2025. Such regulations may impact our operational, contracting and compliance costs by requiring the implementation of new risk management procedures, requirements for procuring information and communication 26 technology services, and ongoing processes to monitor compliance; failure to maintain compliance may cause us to be subject to regulatory actions and fines. Additionally, we are subject to the obligations under the Benchmark Regulation ((EU) 2016/1011), compliance with which could be costly or cause a change in our business practices. Certain of our customers operate in a highly regulated industry. Regulatory authorities could impose regulatory changes that could impact the ability of our customers to use our exchanges. The loss of a significant number of customers or a reduction in trading activity on any of our exchanges as a result of such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, regulatory changes could impact the ability of current or prospective customers to procure commercial services from us, increase our cost of delivery or performance due to regulatory-driven changes to services or related business processes and lengthen sales cycles as customers are required to conduct additional diligence and contracting processes prior to procuring our services. Regulatory changes and changes in market structure and proprietary data could have a material adverse effect on our business. Regulatory changes adopted by the SEC or other regulators of our markets, and regulatory changes that our markets may adopt in fulfillment of their regulatory obligations, could materially affect our business operations. In recent years, there has been increased regulatory and governmental focus on issues affecting the securities markets, including market structure, technological oversight and fees for proprietary market data, connectivity and transactions. The SEC, FINRA and the national securities exchanges have introduced several initiatives to ensure the oversight, integrity and resilience of markets. In December 2022, the SEC proposed significant rule changes that, if adopted in their current form, would substantially alter how stocks are traded in the United States. In October 2023, the SEC proposed to require exchanges to modify their pricing practices for certain types of transactions. While we and other market participants have the opportunity to submit comments on these proposals, and we will adjust our business model in accordance with any new SEC regulations implemented, the adoption of these proposals regarding trading may negatively impact our business and revenue. With respect to our regulated businesses, our business model can be severely impacted by policy decisions. In May 2020, the SEC adopted an order to require changes to the governance of securities information processors. In December 2020, the SEC adopted a rule to modify the infrastructure for the collection, consolidation and dissemination of market data for exchange-listed national market stocks. In 2022, the U.S. Court of Appeals for District of Columbia Circuit vacated portions of the governance order but upheld the remainder of the SEC’s 2022 actions. If the remaining aspects of the order and rule are fully implemented, they may adversely affect our revenues. The timing for the implementation is currently unknown, and we believe they may take two or more years to fully implement. If the remaining aspects of the order and rule are ultimately implemented as set forth in their adopting releases, demand for certain of our proprietary tape share data products may be reduced, or we may have to reduce our pricing to compete with other entrants into the market for consolidated data. Our opponents in some markets are larger and better funded and, if successful in influencing certain policies, may successfully advocate for positions that adversely impact our business. These regulatory changes could impose significant costs, including litigation costs, and other obligations on the operation of our exchanges and processor systems and have other impacts on our business. In Canada, all new marketplace fees and changes to existing fees, including trading and market data fees, must be filed with and approved by the Ontario Securities Commission. The Canadian Securities Administrators adopted a Data Fees Methodology that restricts the total amount of fees that can be charged for professional uses by all marketplaces to a reference benchmark. Currently, all marketplaces are subject to annual reviews of their market data fees tying market data revenues to pre- and post- trade market share metrics. Permitted fee ranges are based on an interim domestic benchmark that is subject to change to an international benchmark, which could lower the permitted fees charged by marketplaces, which could adversely impact our revenues. Our European exchanges currently offer market data products to customers on a non-discriminatory and reasonable commercial basis. The MiFID II/MiFIR rules entail that the price for regulated market data such as pre- and post-trade data shall be based on cost plus a reasonable margin. However, these terms are not clearly defined. There is a risk that a different interpretation of these terms may influence the fees for European market data products adversely. In addition, any future actions by European Union institutions could affect our ability to offer market data products in the same manner as today, thereby causing an adverse effect on our market data revenues. 27 We are subject to litigation risks and other liabilities. Many aspects of our business potentially involve substantial liability risks. Although under current law we are immune from private suits arising from conduct within our regulatory authority and from acts and forbearances incident to the exercise of our regulatory authority, this immunity only covers certain of our activities in the U.S., and we could be exposed to liability under national and local laws, court decisions and rules and regulations promulgated by regulatory agencies. We face risks related to compliance with economic sanctions (including those administered by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control), export controls, corruption (including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act) and money laundering. While we maintain compliance programs to prevent and detect potential violations, such programs cannot completely eliminate the risk of non-compliance. Since our Financial Crime Management Technology and surveillance solutions are important offerings, a significant compliance event involving one of these areas could more negatively impact our business than a comparable business without this service offering. Liability could also result from disputes over the terms of a trade, claims that a system failure or delay cost a customer money, claims we entered into an unauthorized transaction or claims that we provided materially false or misleading statements in connection with a securities transaction. Although we carry insurance that may limit our risk of damages in some cases, we still may incur significant legal expenses and may sustain uncovered losses or losses in excess of available insurance that would affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have self-regulatory obligations and also operate for-profit businesses, and these two roles may create conflicts of interest. We have obligations to regulate and monitor activities on our markets and ensure compliance with applicable law and the rules of our markets by market participants and listed companies. In the U.S., some have expressed concern about potential conflicts of interest of “for-profit” markets performing the regulatory functions of an SRO. We perform regulatory functions and bear regulatory responsibility related to our listed companies and our markets. Any failure by us to diligently and fairly regulate our markets or to otherwise fulfill our regulatory obligations could significantly harm our reputation, prompt SEC scrutiny and adversely affect our business and reputation. Our Nordic and Baltic exchanges monitor trading and compliance with listing standards in accordance with the European Union’s Market Abuse Regulation and other applicable laws. As further described in Note 18, “Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements of this Form 10-K, during 2023, the SFSA initiated a review of the Nasdaq Stockholm exchange regarding the obligation of Nasdaq Stockholm to report suspected market abuse. Any failure to diligently and fairly regulate the Nordic and Baltic exchanges could significantly harm our reputation, prompt scrutiny from regulators and adversely affect our business and reputation. Laws and regulations regarding security and safeguarding of our systems and services, protection of sensitive customer data and the handling of personal data and information may affect our services or result in increased costs, legal claims or fines against us. Our business operates certain systems that may be considered “critical infrastructure” under certain regulations and licenses or sells certain systems or services to customers that are used by customers in their role as providers of critical infrastructure or to fulfill certain core business requirements or process certain sensitive data. New cybersecurity regulations may impact the requirements and cost of delivery for impacted systems and services and, in the event of an incident, increase the cost and complexity of our response and the potential financial and reputation impact from fines or private litigation. These regulations may also impact customer decision making and conditions on contracting for our services. Our businesses and internal operations rely on the processing of data in many jurisdictions and the movement of data, including personal data, across national borders. Legal and contractual requirements relating to the processing, including, but not limited to, collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer and security, of personal data continue to evolve and regulatory scrutiny and customer requirements in this area are increasing around the world. Significant uncertainty exists as privacy and data protection laws may be interpreted and applied differently across jurisdictions and may create inconsistent or conflicting requirements with privacy and other laws to which we are subject. Laws and regulations such as the European Union and United Kingdom General Data Protection Regulation, the California Privacy Rights Act and other comparable laws and regulations adopted globally and within the United States and Canada can apply to our processing of their residents’ personal data by Nasdaq legal entities regardless of the location of such entities; such laws may also require our customers located in such jurisdictions to contractually obligate our compliance. 28 In addition to directly applying to some of our business activities, these laws and industry-specific regulations, such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act and the Gramm Leach Bliley Act, impact many of our customers, which may affect their decisions to purchase our services. As a supplier to such customers, regulators may engage in direct enforcement actions or seek to impose liability on us if we do not comply with applicable regulations. Our efforts to comply with privacy and data protection laws may entail substantial expenses, may divert resources from other initiatives and projects, and could impact the services that we offer. The enactment of more restrictive laws, rules or regulations, future enforcement actions or investigations, or the creation of new rights to pursue damages could impact us through increased costs or restrictions on our business, and noncompliance could result in regulatory penalties and significant legal liability. Changes in tax laws, regulations or policies could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Changes in tax laws, regulations or policies could result in us having to pay higher taxes, which may reduce our net income, or could adversely affect our ability to continue our capital allocation program or effect strategic transactions in a tax-favorable manner. In addition, such changes, including federal or state financial transaction taxes, may increase the cost of our offerings or services, which may cause our clients to reduce their use of our services. Some of our subsidiaries are subject to tax in the jurisdictions in which they are organized or operate, and in computing our tax obligation in these jurisdictions, we take various tax positions. We cannot ensure that upon review of these positions, the applicable authorities will agree with our positions. A successful challenge by a tax authority could result in additional taxes imposed on our clients or our subsidiaries. RISKS RELATED TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND BRAND REPUTATION Damage to our reputation or brand name could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. One of our competitive strengths is our strong reputation and brand name. Various issues may give rise to reputational risk, including issues relating to: • our ability to maintain the security of our data and systems; • the quality and reliability of our technology platforms and systems; • the ability to fulfill our regulatory obligations; • the ability to execute our business plan, key initiatives or new business ventures and the ability to keep up with changing customer demand; • the representation of our business in the media; • the accuracy of our financial statements, other financial and statistical information or ESG-related disclosures; • the accuracy of our financial guidance or other information provided to our investors; • the quality of our corporate governance structure; • the quality of our products the reliability of our solutions and the accuracy of our information and data offerings; • the quality of our disclosure controls or internal controls over financial reporting, including any failures in supervision; • extreme price volatility on our markets; • any negative publicity surrounding our listed companies or our listing rules; • any negative publicity surrounding the use of our products and/or services by our customers, including in connection with emerging asset classes such as crypto assets; and • any misconduct, fraudulent activity or theft by our employees or other persons formerly or currently associated with us. Negative publicity or misrepresentations by third parties, particularly on social media, may adversely impact our credibility as a leader in the global capital markets and as a source for data and analytics. This may have an adverse effect on our brands, business and operating results. Damage to our reputation could cause some issuers not to list their securities on our exchanges or switch to a different exchange. Reputational damage may also reduce trading volumes or values on our exchanges or cause us to lose customers. This may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Failure to meet customer expectations or deadlines for the implementation of our products could result in negative publicity, losses and reduced sales, each of which may harm our reputation, business and results of operations. We generally mutually agree with our customers on the duration, budget and costs associated with the implementation of certain of our products, particularly our market technology large-scale market infrastructure projects. Various factors may cause implementations to be delayed, inefficient or otherwise unsuccessful, including due to unforeseen project complexities, our deployment of insufficient resources or other external factors. The effects of a failure to meet an implementation schedule could include monetary credits for current or future service engagements, a reduction in fees for the project, or the expenditure of additional expenses to mitigate such delays. In addition, time-consuming implementations may also increase the personnel we must allocate to such customer, thereby increasing our costs and diverting attention from other projects. Unsuccessful, lengthy, or costly customer implementation projects could result in claims from customers, decreased customer satisfaction, harm to our reputation, and opportunities for competitors to displace us, each of which could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations. 29 Our reputation or business could be negatively impacted by ESG matters and our reporting of such matters. We communicate certain ESG-related initiatives, goals, and/or commitments regarding environmental matters, social matters, vendors and suppliers and other matters in our annual Sustainability Report, Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, on our website, in our filings with the SEC and elsewhere. These initiatives, goals, or commitments, such as our commitment to achieve net-zero for Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, could be difficult to achieve and costly to implement. We could fail to achieve, or be perceived to fail to achieve, these initiatives, goals, or commitments. In addition, we could be criticized for the timing, scope or nature of these initiatives, goals, or commitments, or for any revisions to them. We could be subject to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions regarding the accuracy, adequacy, or completeness of our ESG-related disclosures. Our actual or perceived failure to achieve our ESG-related initiatives, goals, or commitments could negatively impact our reputation or otherwise materially harm our business. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights, or allegations that we have infringed on the intellectual property rights of others, could harm our brand-building efforts and ability to compete effectively. To protect our intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of trademark laws, copyright laws, patent laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our affiliates, clients, strategic partners, employees and others. However, the efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights might not be sufficient, or effective, at stopping unauthorized use of those rights. We may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. We have registered, or applied to register, our trademarks in the United States and in over 50 foreign jurisdictions and have pending U.S. and foreign applications for other trademarks. We also maintain copyright protection for software products and pursue patent protection for inventions developed by us. We hold a number of patents, patent applications and licenses in the United States and other foreign jurisdictions. However, effective trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection might not be available or cost-effective in every country in which we offer our services and products. Moreover, changes in patent law, regulation or practices at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and/or analogous offices in other jurisdictions, such as changes in the law regarding patentable subject matter, could also impact our ability to obtain patent protection for our innovations. The scope of protection under our patents may not be sufficient in some cases, or existing patents may be deemed invalid or unenforceable. Failure to protect our intellectual property adequately could harm our brand and affect our ability to compete effectively. Further, defending our intellectual property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Third parties may assert intellectual property rights claims against us, which may be costly to defend, could require the payment of damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies, trademarks or other intellectual property. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management resources and attention. Successful challenges against us could require us to modify or discontinue our use of technology or business processes where such use is found to infringe or violate the rights of others, or require us to purchase licenses from third parties, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. GENERAL RISK FACTORS We are a holding company that depends on cash flow from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations, and any restrictions on our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. As a holding company, we require dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to meet cash requirements. Minimum capital requirements mandated by regulatory authorities having jurisdiction over some of our regulated subsidiaries indirectly restrict the amount of dividends that can be paid upstream. If our subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends and make other payments to us when needed, or if regulators or counterparties require us to increase capital deployed in certain of our regulated subsidiaries, we may be unable to satisfy our obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may experience fluctuations in our operating results, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our industry is risky and unpredictable and is directly affected by many national and international factors beyond our control, including: • economic, political and geopolitical market conditions; • natural disasters, terrorism, pandemics, war or other catastrophes; • broad trends in finance and technology; • changes in price levels and volatility in the stock markets; • the level and volatility of interest rates; • volatility in commodity markets, including the energy markets; • inflation; • disruptions or delays in our supply chains; 30 • changes in government monetary or tax policy; • the imposition of governmental economic sanctions on countries in which we do business or where we plan to expand our business; and • the perceived attractiveness of the U.S. or European capital markets. Any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results by causing a substantial decline in the financial services markets and reducing trading volumes or values. Additionally, since borrowings under our credit facilities bear interest at variable rates and commercial paper is issued at prevailing interest rates, any increase in interest rates on debt that we have not fixed using interest rate hedges will increase our interest expense, reduce our cash flow or increase the cost of future borrowings or refinancings. Other than variable rate debt, we believe our business has relatively large fixed costs and low variable costs, which magnifies the impact of revenue fluctuations on our operating results. As a result, a decline in our revenue may lead to a relatively larger impact on operating results. A substantial portion of our operating expenses is related to personnel costs, regulation and corporate overhead, none of which can be adjusted quickly and some of which cannot be adjusted at all. Our operating expense levels are based on our expectations for future revenue. If actual revenue is below management’s expectations, or if our expenses increase before revenues do, both revenues less transaction-based expenses and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. Because of these factors, it is possible that our operating results or other operating metrics may fail to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. If this happens, the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Our operational processes are subject to the risk of error, which may result in financial loss or reputational damage. We have instituted extensive controls to reduce the risk of error inherent in our operations; however, such risk cannot completely be eliminated. Our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process and report, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets. Some of our operations require complex processes, and the introduction of new products or services or changes in processes or reporting due to regulatory requirements may result in an increased risk of errors for a period after implementation. Additionally, the likelihood of such errors or vulnerabilities is heightened as we acquire new products from third parties, whether as a result of acquisitions or otherwise. Data, other content or information that we distribute may contain errors or be delayed, causing reputational harm. Use of our products and services as part of the investment process creates the risk that clients, or the parties whose assets are managed by our clients, may pursue claims against us in the event of such delay or error, and significant litigation against us might unduly burden management, personnel, financial and other resources. In addition, the sophisticated software we sell to our customers may contain undetected errors or vulnerabilities, some of which may be discovered only after delivery, or could fail to perform its intended purpose. Because our clients depend on our solutions for critical business functions, any service interruptions, failures or other issues may result in lost or delayed market acceptance and lost sales, or negative customer experiences that could damage our reputation, resulting in the loss of customers, loss of revenues and liability for damages, which may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Climate change may have a long-term adverse impact on our business, and climate and ESG-related disclosure requirements may reduce demand for listings on our exchanges. While we seek to mitigate our business risks associated with climate change by establishing robust environmental and sustainability programs, there are inherent climate related risks wherever our business is conducted. There is an increased focus from our regulators, investors, clients, employees, and other stakeholders concerning corporate citizenship and sustainability matters. Access to clean water and reliable energy in the communities where we conduct our business, whether for our offices, data centers, vendors, clients or other stakeholders, is a priority. For example, changes in weather where we operate may increase the costs of powering and cooling our data centers or the facilities that we use to operate our exchanges and clearinghouses, develop our products or provide cloud-based services. Climate related events, including extreme weather events and their impact on the critical infrastructure in the United States and elsewhere, have the potential to disrupt our business or the business of our clients; cause increased volatility in commodity markets in which Nasdaq Clearing operates as a clearinghouse, which may result in Nasdaq Clearing holding insufficient collateral for such volatility; lead to an increase in costs of raw materials, which may adversely affect certain of our listed companies operating in certain sectors and create adverse market conditions, including trading volatility beyond historical levels, any of which could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition and operating results. Additionally, if the SEC or other federal, state or international regulatory agencies impose comprehensive reporting obligations regarding climate change on U.S. public companies, there may be a decrease in new listings or an increase in delistings of our listed companies, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Such new regulations, whether in the U.S. 31 or in other countries in which we operate, could also cause us to incur additional compliance and reporting costs. Our businesses operate in various international markets, which are subject to political, economic and social uncertainties. Our businesses operate in various international markets, including but not limited to Northern Europe, the Baltics, the Middle East, Latin America, Africa and Asia, and our non-U.S. operations are subject to the risk inherent in the international environment. Political, economic or social events or developments in one or more of our non-U.S. locations or in the U.S. arising from such international developments, such as limitations imposed on securing new listings on our exchanges or restrictions on entering into transactions with new or existing customers, could adversely affect our sales, operations and financial results. Some locations, such as Lithuania, India, the Philippines and in other emerging markets, have economies that may be subject to greater political, economic and social uncertainties than countries with more developed institutional structures, which may increase our operational risk. Unforeseen or catastrophic events could interrupt our critical business functions. In addition, our U.S. and European businesses are heavily concentrated in particular areas and may be adversely affected by events in those areas. We may incur losses as a result of unforeseen or catastrophic events, such as terrorist attacks, natural disasters, pandemics, extreme weather, fire, power loss, telecommunications failures, human error, theft, sabotage and vandalism. Given our position in the global capital markets, we may be more likely than other companies to be a target for malicious disruption activities. In addition, our U.S. and European business operations are heavily concentrated in the east coast of the U.S., and Stockholm, Sweden, respectively. Any event that impacts either of those geographic areas could potentially affect our ability to operate our businesses. We have disaster recovery and business continuity plans and capabilities for critical systems and business functions to mitigate the risk of an interruption. Any interruption in our critical business functions or systems could negatively impact our financial condition and operating results. Additionally, some colocation customers may lack adequate disaster recovery solutions to avoid loss of trade flow from a sustained interruption of our critical systems. Because we have operations in numerous countries, we are exposed to currency risk. We have operations in the U.S., the Nordic and Baltic countries, Canada, the United Kingdom, Australia and many other foreign countries. We therefore have significant exposure to exchange rate movements between the Euro, Swedish Krona, the Canadian dollar and other foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar. Significant inflation or disproportionate changes in foreign exchange rates with respect to one or more of these currencies could occur as a result of general economic conditions, acts of war or terrorism, changes in governmental monetary or tax policy, changes in local interest rates or other factors. These exchange rate differences will affect the translation of our non-U.S. results of operations, interest expense and financial condition into U.S. dollars as part of the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. If our risk management methods are not effective, our business, reputation and financial results may be adversely affected. We utilize widely-accepted methods to identify, assess, monitor and manage our risks, including oversight of risk management by Nasdaq’s Global Risk Management Committee, which comprises senior executives and has the responsibility for regularly reviewing risks and referring significant risks to the board of directors or specific board committees. Local risk management committees in our international offices provide local risk oversight and escalation to local boards, as appropriate. Certain risk management methods require subjective evaluation of dynamic information regarding markets, customers or other matters. That variable information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. If we do not successfully identify, assess, monitor or manage the risks to which we are exposed, our business, reputation, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Decisions to declare future dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and there can be no guarantee that we will pay future dividends to our stockholders. Our board of directors regularly declares quarterly cash dividend payments on our outstanding common stock. Future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to approval by Nasdaq’s board of directors. The board’s determination to declare dividends will depend upon our profitability and financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors that the board deems relevant. Based on an evaluation of these factors, the board may determine not to declare future dividends at all or to declare future dividends at a reduced amount. 32 Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, exchange rules (including provisions included to address SEC concerns) and governing law restrict the ownership and voting of our common stock. In addition, such provisions could delay or prevent a change in control of us and entrench current management. Our organizational documents place restrictions on the voting rights of certain stockholders. The holders of our common stock are entitled to one vote per share on all matters to be voted upon by the stockholders except that no person may exercise voting rights in respect of any shares in excess of 5% of the then outstanding shares of our common stock. Any change to the 5% voting limitation would require SEC approval. In response to the SEC’s concern about a concentration of our ownership, the rules of some of our exchange subsidiaries include a prohibition on any member or any person associated with a member of the exchange from beneficially owning more than 20% of our outstanding voting interests. SEC consent would be required before any investor could obtain more than a 20% voting interest in us. The rules of some of our exchange subsidiaries also require the SEC’s approval of any business ventures with exchange members, subject to exceptions. Our organizational documents contain provisions that may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of us, such as a tender offer or takeover proposal that might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. Additionally, certain of these provisions make it more difficult to bring about a change in the composition of our board of directors, which could result in entrenchment of current management. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws: • do not permit stockholders to act by written consent; • require certain advance notice for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings; and • authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, or “blank check” preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more (or, in some cases, a holder who previously held 15% or more) of our common stock. In general, Delaware law prohibits a publicly held corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for three years after the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless the corporation’s board of directors and stockholders approve the business combination in a prescribed manner. Finally, many of the European countries where we operate regulated entities require prior governmental approval before an investor acquires 10% or greater of our common stock.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations of Nasdaq refers to the year-over-year comparison for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022 and should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Form 10-K, as well as the discussion under “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” For further discussion of our growth strategy, products and services, and competitive strengths, see “Item 1. Business.” Discussion of fiscal year 2022 items and the year-over year comparison of changes in our financial condition and results of operations as of and for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021 can be found in Part II, “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, which was previously filed with the SEC on February 23, 2023. For the Financial Technology segment, which was impacted by the new divisional structure subsequent to the Adenza acquisition, the comparisons presented in this discussion and analysis also include the year-over-year comparison of results of operations for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021. Business Segments Our organizational structure aligns our businesses with the foundational shifts that are driving the evolution of the global financial system. Following the acquisition of Adenza, we further refined the divisional structure into Capital Access Platforms, Financial Technology and Market Services reportable segments. All prior periods have been restated to conform to the current period presentation. See Note 1, “Organization and Nature of Operations,” and Note 19, “Business Segments,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our reportable segments and geographic data, as well as how management allocates resources, assesses performance and manages these businesses as three separate segments. See “Part I, Item 1. Business” for additional discussion on recent developments and highlights. Nasdaq ’ s Operating Results The following tables summarize our financial performance for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the same period in 2022 and for the year ended December 31, 2022 when compared to the same period in 2021. The comparability of our results of operations between reported periods is impacted by the acquisition of Adenza in November 2023. See “2023 Acquisition,” of Note 4, “Acquisitions,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. For a detailed discussion of our results of operations, see “Segment Operating Results” below. In countries with currencies other than the U.S. dollar, revenues and expenses are translated using monthly average exchange rates. Impacts on our revenues less transaction-based expenses and operating income associated with fluctuations in foreign currency are discussed in more detail under “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” 37 The following chart summarizes our ARR (in millions): ARR for a given period is the current annualized value derived from subscription contracts with a defined contract value. This excludes contracts that are not recurring, are one-time in nature, or where the contract value fluctuates based on defined metrics. ARR is currently one of our key performance metrics to assess the health and trajectory of our recurring business. ARR does not have any standardized definition and is therefore unlikely to be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies. ARR should be viewed independently of revenue and deferred revenue and is not intended to be combined with or to replace either of those items. For Adenza recurring revenue contracts, the amount included in ARR is consistent with the amount that we invoice the customer during the current period. Additionally, for Adenza recurring revenue contracts that include annual values that increase over time, we include in ARR only the annualized value of components of the contract that are considered active as of the date of the ARR calculation. We do not include the future committed increases in the contract value as of the date of the ARR calculation. ARR is not a forecast and the active contracts at the end of a reporting period used in calculating ARR may or may not be extended or renewed by our customers. The ARR chart includes: The following chart summarizes our quarterly annualized SaaS revenues for Solutions, which comprises our Capital Access Platforms and Financial Technology segments, for December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 (in millions): 38 Segment Operating Results The following table presents our revenues by segment: The following chart presents our Capital Access Platforms, Financial Technology and Market Services segments as a percentage of our total revenues, less transaction-based expenses. CAPITAL ACCESS PLATFORMS The following table presents revenues from our Capital Access Platforms segment: Data & Listing Services Revenues The following table presents key drivers from our Data & Listing Services business: In the tables above: • Number of total listed companies on The Nasdaq Stock Market for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 included 600, 528 and 441 ETPs, respectively. • IPOs, new listings (which includes IPOs) and total listed companies for exchanges that comprise Nasdaq Nordic and Nasdaq Baltic represent companies listed on the Nasdaq Nordic and Nasdaq Baltic exchanges and companies on the alternative markets of Nasdaq First North. 39 Data & Listing Services revenues increased in 2023 compared with 2022 primarily due to an increase in proprietary data revenues driven largely by higher international demand and annual listing fee growth, partially offset by lower initial listings fees. Index Revenues The following table presents key drivers from our Index business: In the table above, TTM represents trailing twelve months. Index revenues increased in 2023 compared with 2022 primarily due to higher AUM in exchange traded products linked to Nasdaq indices. Workflow & Insights Revenues The following table presents key drivers from our Workflow & Insights business: Workflow & Insights revenues increased in 2023 compared with 2022 due to an increase in both analytics and corporate solutions revenues. The increase in analytics revenues was primarily due to the growth in our eVestment and Solovis product offerings. The increase in our corporate solutions revenues was primarily due to continued demand for our ESG solutions. FINANCIAL TECHNOLOGY The following table presents revenues from our Financial Technology segment: Financial Crime Management Technology Revenues The following table presents key drivers for Financial Crime Management Technology business: Financial Crime Management Technology revenues increased in 2023 compared with 2022 and 2022 compared with 2021 due to an increase in demand related to new sales to existing clients and new customer acquisitions. The 2022 increase was also driven by a $28 million purchase price adjustment from the Verafin acquisition on deferred revenue in 2021 and the inclusion of a full year of Verafin revenues in 2022. Regulatory Technology Revenues The following table presents key drivers for Regulatory Technology business: Regulatory Technology revenues increased in 2023 compared with 2022 primarily due to the inclusion of revenues from our acquisition of Adenza and strong performance from our surveillance offerings in new sales to existing clients and new customer acquisitions. The strong performance of our surveillance offerings was also the key driver of the increase in 2022 compared with 2021. 40 Capital Markets Technology Revenues The following table presents key drivers for Capital Markets Technology business: Capital Markets Technology revenues increased in 2023 compared with 2022 and 2022 compared with 2021. The increase in 2023 was primarily due to the inclusion of revenues from our acquisition of Adenza, higher trade management services revenues mainly driven by demand for colocation and connectivity services and higher market technology revenues due to higher support revenues and higher professional services fees. The increase in 2022 was primarily due to higher trade management services revenues associated with increased demand for connectivity services, partially offset by lower market technology revenues. The decrease in market technology revenues in 2022 was due to the successful completion of long-term contracts in 2021 and the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign exchange rates of $10 million, partially offset by growth in SaaS-based revenues. MARKET SERVICES The following table presents revenues from our Market Services segment: Our Market Services segment includes equity derivatives trading, cash equity trading, Nordic fixed income trading & clearing, U.S. Tape plans and other revenues. The following tables present net revenues by product from our Market Services segment: In the table above, Other includes Nordic fixed income trading & clearing, Nordic derivatives and Canadian cash equities trading. U.S. Equity Derivative Trading The following tables present total revenues, transaction-based expenses, and total revenues less transaction-based expenses as well as key drivers from our U.S. Equity Derivative Trading business: Section 31 fees are recorded as U.S. equity derivative and cash equity trading revenues with a corresponding amount recorded in transaction-based expenses. We are assessed these fees from the SEC and pass them through to our customers in the form of incremental fees. Pass-through fees can increase or decrease due to rate changes by the SEC, our percentage of the overall industry volumes processed on our systems, and differences in actual dollar value traded. Section 31 fees decreased in 2023 compared with 2022 primarily due to lower average SEC fee rates. Since the amount recorded in revenues is equal to the amount recorded as Section 31 fees, there is no impact on our net revenues. 41 U.S. equity derivative trading revenues, transaction rebates, in which we credit a portion of the execution charge to the market participant, and U.S. equity derivative trading revenues less transaction-based expenses remained relatively flat in 2023 compared with 2022 primarily due to higher industry trading volumes, partially offset by lower overall matched market share executed on Nasdaq’s exchanges and lower gross capture rate. Cash Equity Trading Revenues The following tables present total revenues, transaction-based expenses, and total revenues less transaction-based expenses as well as key drivers and other metrics from our Cash Equity Trading business: See the discussion in "U.S. Equity Derivative Trading" for an explanation of Section 31 fees for 2023 as compared to 2022. Since the amount recorded in revenues is equal to the amount recorded as Section 31 fees, there is no impact on our net revenues. In the tables above, total market share includes transactions executed on The Nasdaq Stock Market’s, Nasdaq BX’s and Nasdaq PSX’s systems plus trades reported through the FINRA/Nasdaq Trade Reporting Facility. Cash equity trading revenues decreased in 2023 compared with 2022 primarily due to lower industry trading volumes, lower overall U.S. matched market share executed on Nasdaq’s exchanges, as well as lower gross capture rates. Cash equity trading revenues less transaction-based expenses remained flat in 2023 compared with 2022 primarily due to lower industry trading volumes and lower overall U.S. matched market share executed on Nasdaq’s exchanges, partially offset by higher U.S. capture rate. Transaction rebates decreased in 2023 compared with 2022. For The Nasdaq Stock Market and Nasdaq PSX, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that provides the liquidity, and for Nasdaq BX, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that takes the liquidity. The decrease was primarily due to lower rebate capture rate, lower U.S. 42 industry volumes, and lower U.S. matched market share executed on Nasdaq's exchanges. U.S. Tape Plans The following table presents revenues from our U.S. Tape plans business: U.S. Tape plans revenues decreased in 2023 compared with 2022 primarily due to lower market share and usage. Other Other includes Nordic fixed income trading and clearing, Nordic derivatives and Canadian cash equities trading. The following tables present revenue and a key driver from our Other business: In the table above, other includes transaction rebates of $20 million, $30 million, and $32 million in 2023, 2022, and 2021 respectively. In the tables above, Nasdaq Nordic and Nasdaq Baltic total average daily volume of options and futures contracts include Finnish option contracts traded on Eurex for which Nasdaq and Eurex have a revenue sharing arrangement. Other revenues increased in 2023 compared with 2022 primarily due to increased revenues in our Nordic derivatives trading, higher collateral management services revenues, partially offset by lower revenue from Canadian cash equities trading. OTHER REVENUES For the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, other revenues include revenues related to our European power trading and clearing business, following our announcement in June 2023 to sell this business to the European Energy Exchange, subject to regulatory approval. Prior to June 2023, these revenues were included in our Market Services and Capital Access Platforms segments. Also for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, other revenues include a transitional services agreement associated with a divested business. For the year ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, other revenues also include revenues related to our Nordic broker services business for which we completed the wind-down in June 2022. Prior to June 2022, these revenues were included in our Market Services segment. Additionally, for the year ended December 31, 2021, other revenues include revenues associated with the NPM business which we contributed in July 2021 to a standalone, independent company, of which we own the largest minority interest, together with a consortium of third-party financial institutions. Prior to July 2021, these revenues were included in our Capital Access Platforms segment. EXPENSES Operating Expenses The following table presents our operating expenses: The increase in compensation and benefits expense for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared with the same period in 2022 was primarily driven by increased headcount. The increase in the year ended December 31, 2023 was partially offset by a favorable impact from foreign exchange rates of $12 million. Headcount, including employees of non-wholly owned consolidated subsidiaries, increased to 8,525 employees as of December 31, 2023 from 6,377 as of December 31, 2022, primarily due to our acquisition of Adenza. Professional and contract services expense decreased in 2023 compared with 2022 primarily due to reduced consulting costs and reduced legal fees. Computer operations and data communications expense increased in 2023 compared with 2022 primarily due to higher costs related to our cloud initiatives. 43 Occupancy expense increased in 2023 compared with 2022 primarily due to a review of our real estate and facility capacity requirements due to our new and evolving work models initiated in the first quarter of 2023. As a result of this ongoing review, for the year ended December 31, 2023, we recorded $18 million in impairment charges and exit related costs following the abandonment of leased office space. General, administrative and other expense decreased in 2023 compared with the same period in 2022 primarily due to an insurance recovery related to a legal matter in 2023 and a loss on extinguishment of debt recorded in 2022. Marketing and advertising expense decreased in 2023 compared with 2022 primarily due to lower client incentives resulting from lower IPO activity. Depreciation and amortization expense increased in 2023 compared with 2022 primarily due to an increase in amortization due to the intangible assets acquired as part of the Adenza acquisition. Regulatory expense remained relatively flat in 2023 compared with 2022. We have pursued various strategic initiatives and completed acquisitions and divestitures i n recent years, which have resulted in expenses which would not have otherwise been incurred. These expenses generally include integration costs, as well as legal, due diligence and other third-party transaction costs and vary based on the size and frequency of the activities described above. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared with 2022 primarily reflects higher expenses related to the Adenza acquisition. Restructuring charges increased in 2023 compared with 2022 as a result of charges from our 2022 divisional alignment program as well as the launch of our 2023 Adenza restructuring program. See Note 20, “Restructuring Charges,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. By 2025, we expect to achieve benefits of the 2022 divisional alignment program through combined annual run-rate operating efficiencies and revenue synergies of approximately $30 million annually. We expect to achieve $80 million of net expense synergies two years following the closing of the Adenza acquisition. Non-operating Income and Expenses The following table presents our non-operating income and expenses: The following table presents our interest expense: Interest income increased in 2023 compared with 2022 primarily due to a higher average cash balance during the period between the issuance of the senior unsecured notes in June 2023 and the closing of the Adenza acquisition, and an increase in interest rates. Interest expense increased in 2023 compared with 2022 primarily due to debt issued in June 2023 to finance the Adenza acquisition as well as an increase in interest rates. See “Financing of the Adenza Acquisition,” of Note 9, “Debt Obligations,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. The net gain on divestiture of business in 2021 relates to the sale of our U.S. Fixed Income business, which was part of our FICC business within our Market Services segment. We recognized a pre-tax gain on the sale of $84 million, net of disposal costs. 44 Other income (loss) primarily represents realized and unrealized gains and losses from strategic investments related to our corporate venture program. Net income (loss) from unconsolidated investees decreased in 2023 compared with 2022 primarily due to lower income recognized from our equity method investments in OCC and NPM. See “Equity Method Investments,” of Note 6, “Investments,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. Tax Matters The following table presents our income tax provision and effective tax rate: For further discussion of our tax matters, see Note 17, “Income Taxes,” to the consolidated financial statements. NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES In addition to disclosing results determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, we also provide non-GAAP net income attributable to Nasdaq and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Management uses this non-GAAP information internally, along with U.S. GAAP information, in evaluating our performance and in making financial and operational decisions. We believe our presentation of these measures provides investors with greater transparency and supplemental data relating to our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we believe the presentation of these measures is useful to investors for period-to-period comparisons of our ongoing operating performance. These measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, U.S. GAAP, and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate such measures differently, which reduces their usefulness as comparative measures. Investors should not rely on any single financial measure when evaluating our business. This non-GAAP information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant as a substitute for our operating results in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We recommend investors review the U.S. GAAP financial measures included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. When viewed in conjunction with our U.S. GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliation, we believe these non-GAAP measures provide greater transparency and a more complete understanding of factors affecting our business than U.S. GAAP measures alone. We understand that analysts and investors regularly rely on non-GAAP financial measures, such as non-GAAP net income attributable to Nasdaq and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, to assess operating performance. We use non-GAAP net income attributable to Nasdaq and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share because they highlight trends more clearly in our business that may not otherwise be apparent when relying solely on U.S. GAAP financial measures, since these measures eliminate from our results specific financial items that have less bearing on our ongoing operating performance. We believe that excluding the following items from the non-GAAP net income attributable to Nasdaq provides a more meaningful analysis of Nasdaq’s ongoing operating performance and comparisons in Nasdaq’s performance between periods: • Amortization expense of acquired intangible assets: We amortize intangible assets acquired in connection with various acquisitions. Intangible asset amortization expense can vary from period to period due to episodic acquisitions completed, rather than from our ongoing business operations. As such, if intangible asset amortization is included in performance measures, it is more difficult to assess the day-to-day operating performance of the businesses and the relative operating performance of the businesses between periods. • Merger and strategic initiatives expense: We have pursued various strategic initiatives and completed acquisitions and divestitures in recent years that have resulted in expenses which would not have otherwise been incurred. The frequency and the amount of such expenses vary significantly based on the size, timing and complexity of the transaction. These expenses primarily include integration costs, as well as legal, due diligence and other third-party transaction costs. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to 2022 primarily reflects costs related to the Adenza acquisition. • Restructuring charges: In the fourth quarter of 2023, following the closing of the Adenza acquisition, our management approved, committed to and initiated a restructuring program, “Adenza Restructuring” to optimize our efficiencies as a combined organization. In October 2022, following our September 2022 announcement to realign our segments and leadership, we initiated a divisional alignment program with a focus on realizing the full potential of this structure. In 2019, we initiated the transition of certain technology platforms to advance our strategic opportunities as a technology and analytics provider and continue the realignment of certain business areas. The 2019 restructuring plan was completed in June 2021. See Note 20, “Restructuring Charges,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our 2023 Adenza restructuring program, our 2022 divisional alignment program and our 2019 restructuring plan. 45 • Net loss (income) from unconsolidated investees : We exclude our share of the earnings and losses of our equity method investments, primarily our equity interest in OCC and NPM. This provides a more meaningful analysis of Nasdaq’s ongoing operating performance or comparisons in Nasdaq’s performance between periods. See “Equity Method Investments,” of Note 6, “Investments,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. • Other items: We have excluded certain other charges or gains, including certain tax items, that are the result of other non-comparable events to measure operating performance. We believe the exclusion of such amounts allows management and investors to better understand the ongoing financial results of Nasdaq. Other significant items include: ◦ Lease asset impairments: For 2023, this includes impairment charges related to our operating lease assets and leasehold improvements associated with vacating certain leased office space, which are recorded in occupancy and depreciation and amortization expense in our Consolidated Statements of Income. ◦ Extinguishment of debt: For 2022 and 2021 this includes a loss on extinguishment of debt, which is recorded under general, administrative and other expense in our Consolidated Statements of Income. ◦ Legal and regulatory matters: For 2023 and 2022, this includes accruals related to certain legal matters. For 2023, these charges were partially offset by insurance recoveries related to certain legal matters. The charges and related insurance recoveries are recorded in professional and contract services and general, administrative and other expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income. For 2022 and 2021, this also includes a charge related to an administrative fine imposed by the SFSA. related to the clearing default that occurred in 2018. This charge was included in regulatory expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income. ◦ Net gain on divestiture of business: For 2021, this represents our pre-tax net gain of $84 million on the sale of our U.S. Fixed Income business. ◦ Pension settlement charge: For 2023, we terminated our U.S. pension plan and recorded a partial settlement charge under compensation and benefits in the Consolidated Statements of Income. See Note 10, “Retirement Plans,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. ◦ Other loss (income): For 2023, this includes certain financing costs related to the Adenza acquisition. For 2023, 2022 and 2021 this also includes net gains and losses from strategic investments entered into through our corporate venture program, which are included in other income (loss) in our Consolidated Statements of Income. • Significant tax items: The non-GAAP adjustment to the income tax provision for all periods primarily includes the tax impact of each non-GAAP adjustment. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2021, the non-GAAP adjustment to the income tax provision includes adjustments related to return-to-provision. The following tables present reconciliations between U.S. GAAP net income attributable to Nasdaq and diluted earnings per share and non-GAAP net income attributable to Nasdaq and diluted earnings per share: 46 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Historically, we have funded our operating activities and met our commitments through cash generated by operations, augmented by the periodic issuance of debt. Currently, our cost and availability of funding remain healthy. We continue to prudently assess our capital deployment strategy through balancing acquisitions, internal investments, debt repayments, and shareholder return activity, including share repurchases and dividends. We expect that our current cash and cash equivalents combined with cash flows provided by operating activities, supplemented with our borrowing capacity and access to additional financing, including our revolving credit facility and our commercial paper program, provides us additional flexibility to meet our ongoing obligations and the capital deployment strategic actions described above, while allowing us to invest in activities and product development that support the long-term growth of our operations. Principal factors that could affect the availability of our internally-generated funds include: •    deterioration of our revenues in any of our business segments; •    changes in regulatory and working capital requirements; and • an increase in our expenses. Principal factors that could affect our ability to obtain cash from external sources include: •    operating covenants contained in our credit facilities that limit our total borrowing capacity; •    credit rating downgrades, which could limit our access to additional debt; •    a significant decrease in the market price of our common stock; and •    volatility or disruption in the public debt and equity markets. The following table summarizes selected measures of our liquidity and capital resources: Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes all non-restricted cash in banks and highly liquid investments with original maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. The balance retained in cash and cash equivalents is a function of anticipated or possible short-term cash needs, prevailing interest rates, our investment policy, and alternative investment choices. As of December 31, 2023, our cash and cash equivalents of $453 million were primarily invested in money market funds, commercial paper, municipal bonds and bank deposits. Repatriation of Cash Our cash and cash equivalents held outside of the U.S. in various foreign subsidiaries totaled $236 million as of December 31, 2023 and $275 million as of December 31, 2022. The remaining balance held in the U.S. totaled $217 million as of December 31, 2023 and $227 million as of December 31, 2022. Cash Flow Analysis The following table summarizes the changes in cash flows: Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities primarily consists of net income adjusted for certain non-cash items, including depreciation and amortization expense, expense associated with share-based compensation, deferred income taxes and the effects of changes in working capital. Changes in working capital include changes in accounts receivable and deferred revenue which are impacted by the timing of customer billings and related collections from our customers; accounts payable and accrued expenses due to timing of payments; accrued personnel costs, which are impacted by employee performance targets and the timing of payments related to employee bonus incentives; and Section 31 fees payable to the SEC, which is impacted by the changes in SEC fee rates and the timing of collections from customers and payments to the SEC. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased $10 million for 2023 compared with 2022, excluding the impact of the Adenza acquisition, which is reflected in net cash provided by (used in) investing activities. The decrease was primarily driven by changes in our working capital and timing of various payments and receipts of $(129) million, partially offset by an increase of $119 million driven by the increase in net income adjusted for certain noncash operating activities. The changes in working capital primarily included a decrease in Section 31 fees payable to the SEC, partially offset by lower receivables largely due to a decrease in Section 31 fees receivable as well as timing of collection and an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses primarily due to an increase in our accrued interest payable from issuances of senior unsecured notes in connection with the Adenza acquisition. Non-cash charges in 2023 primarily included $323 million of depreciation and amortization and $122 million of share-based compensation. Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2023 primarily related to $5,766 million paid for the acquisition of Adenza, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired, purchases of property and equipment of 47 $158 million, net purchases of investments related to default funds and margin deposits of $74 million and $3 million from other investing activities, partially offset by proceeds from the sales and redemptions of trading securities, net of $7 million. Net cash provided by investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily related to net proceeds from sales and redemptions of defa ult fund s and margin deposits of $211 million and proceeds of $33 million from other investing activities, partially offset by purchases of property and equipment of $152 million and $41 million cash used for acquisitions, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired. Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2023 primarily related to $5,608 million proceeds from issuances of senior unsecured notes and the 2023 Term Loan, in connection with the Adenza acquisition, net of debt issuance costs, partially offset by $441 million of dividend payments to our shareholders, $371 million from repayments of our commercial paper, net, $269 million in repurchases of common stock and $260 million relating to partial repayment of the 2023 Term Loan. Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily related to an increase in default funds and margin deposits of $2,440 million, proceeds of $541 million from the issuances of long-term-debt and proceeds of $238 million from the issuances of our commercial paper, net, partially offset by $1,097 million related to the repayment of our 2022 and 2024 Notes, $383 million of dividend payments to our shareholders, $325 million of repurchases of common stock pursuant to the ASR agreement and $308 million in other repurchases of common stock. See Note 4, “Acquisitions,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. See Note 9, “Debt Obligations,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt obligations. See “Share Repurchase Program,” and “Cash Dividends on Common Stock,” of Note 12, “Nasdaq Stockholders’ Equity,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our share repurchase program and cash dividends declared and paid on our common stock. Financial Investments Our financial investments totaled $188 million as of December 31, 2023 and $181 million as of December 31, 2022. Of these securities, $168 million as of December 31, 2023 and $161 million as of December 31, 2022 are assets primarily utilized to meet regulatory capital requirements, mainly for our clearing operations at Nasdaq Clearing. See Note 6, “Investments,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. Regulatory Capital Requirements Clearing Operations Regulatory Capital Requirements We are required to maintain minimum levels of regulatory capital for the clearing operations of Nasdaq Clearing. The level of regulatory capital required to be maintained is dependent upon many factors, including market conditions and creditworthiness of the counterparty. As of December 31, 2023, our required regulatory capital of $123 million was primarily comprised of highly rated European government debt securities that are included in financial investments in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Broker-Dealer Net Capital Requirements Our broker-dealer subsidiaries, Nasdaq Execution Services, NFSTX, LLC, and Nasdaq Capital Markets Advisory, are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity. These requirements obligate these subsidiaries to comply with minimum net capital requirements. As of December 31, 2023, the combined required minimum net capital totaled $1 million and the combined excess capital totaled $27 million, substantially all of which is held in cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The required minimum net capital is included in restricted cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Nordic and Baltic Exchange Regulatory Capital Requirements The entities that operate trading venues in the Nordic and Baltic countries are each subject to local regulations and are required to maintain regulatory capital intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity. As of December 31, 2023, our required regulatory capital of $37 million was primarily invested in European government bills and mortgage bonds and Icelandic government bonds that are included in financial investments in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and cash, which is included in restricted cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Other Capital Requirements We operate several other businesses which are subject to local regulation and are required to maintain certain levels of regulatory capital. As of December 31, 2023, other required regulatory capital of $16 million, primarily related to Nasdaq Central Securities Depository, was primarily invested in European government debt securities that are included in financial investments in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Equity and dividends Share Repurchase Program See “Share Repurchase Program,” of Note 12, “Nasdaq Stockholders’ Equity,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our share repurchase program. 48 Cash Dividends on Common Stock The following table presents our quarterly cash dividends paid per common share on our outstanding common stock: See “Cash Dividends on Common Stock,” of Note 12, “Nasdaq Stockholders’ Equity,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the dividends. Debt Obligations The following table summarizes our debt obligations by contractual maturity: For the year ended December 31, 2023, the weighted average interest rate on our debt obligations was approximately 3.5%. This rate can fluctuate based on changes in interest rates for our variable rate debts, changes in foreign currency exchange rates and changes in the amount and duration of outstanding debt. In December 2022, Nasdaq amended and restated its previously issued $1.25 billion five-year revolving credit facility, with a new maturity date of December 16, 2027. In addition to the 2022 Revolving Credit Facility, we also have other credit facilities primarily to support our Nasdaq Clearing operations in Europe, as well as to provide a cash pool credit line for one subsidiary. These European credit facilities, which are available in multiple currencies, totaled $191 million as of December 31, 2023 and $184 million as of December 31, 2022 in available liquidity, none of which was utilized. Financing of the Adenza Acquisition In June 2023, Nasdaq issued six series of notes for total proceeds of $5,016 million, net of debt issuance costs of $38 million, with various maturity dates ranging from 2025 to 2063. During the second half of 2023, we incurred an additional $6 million in debt issuance costs, for a total net proceeds from the issuance of the six series of notes of $5,010 million as of December 31, 2023. The net proceeds from these notes were used to finance the majority of the cash consideration due in connection with the Adenza acquisition. In addition, in connection with the financing of the Adenza acquisition, we entered into the 2023 Term Loan agreement. The 2023 Term Loan provided us with the ability to borrow up to $600 million to finance a portion of the cash consideration for the Adenza acquisition and other amounts incurred in connection with this transaction. Under the 2023 Term Loan, borrowings bear interest on the principal amount outstanding at a variable interest rate based on the SOFR plus an applicable margin that varies with Nasdaq’s debt rating. On November 1, 2023, we borrowed $599 million, net of fees, under this term loan towards payment of the cash consideration due in connection with the Adenza acquisition. We made a partial repayment during the fourth quarter of $260 million. As of December 31, 2023, we had $339 million outstanding under this term loan. As of December 31, 2023, we were in compliance with the covenants of all of our debt obligations. See Note 9, “Debt Obligations,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt obligations. 49 Contractual Obligations and Contingent Commitments Nasdaq has contractual obligations to make future payments under debt obligations by contract maturity, minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases and other obligations. The following table shows these contractual obligations as of December 31, 2023: In the preceding table: • Debt obligations by contractual maturity include both principal and interest obligations. As of December 31, 2023, an interest rate of 4.8% was used to compute the amount of the contractual obligations for interest on the 2022 Revolving Credit Facility and 6.7% was used to compute the amount of the contractual obligations for interest on the 2023 Term Loan. For our Euro denominated notes interest is calculated on an actual basis while all other debt is calculated on a 360-day basis at the contractual fixed rate multiplied by the aggregate principal amount as of December 31, 2023. See Note 9, “Debt Obligations,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. • Operating lease obligations represent our undiscounted operating lease liabilities as of December 31, 2023, as well as legally binding minimum lease payments for leases signed but not yet commenced. See Note 16, “Leases,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our leases. • Purchase obligations primarily represent minimum outstanding obligations due under software license agreements, of which the majority relates to our multi-year AWS partnership contract. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements For discussion of off-balance sheet arrangements see: •    Note 15, “Clearing Operations,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our non-cash default fund contributions and margin deposits received for clearing operations; and •    Note 18, “Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of: ◦ Guarantees issued and credit facilities available; ◦ Other guarantees; and ◦ Routing brokerage activities. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk As a result of our operating, investing and financing activities, we are exposed to market risks such as interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. We are also exposed to credit risk as a result of our normal business activities. We have implemented policies and procedures to measure, manage, monitor and report risk exposures, which are reviewed regularly by management and the board of directors. We identify risk exposures and monitor and manage such risks on a daily basis. We perform sensitivity analyses to determine the effects of market risk exposures. We may use derivative instruments solely to hedge financial risks related to our financial positions or risks that are incurred during the normal course of business. We do not use derivative instruments for speculative purposes. Interest Rate Risk We are subject to the risk of fluctuating interest rates in the normal course of business. Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our financial investments and debt obligations, which are discussed below. Financial Investments As of December 31, 2023, our investment portfolio was primarily comprised of highly rated European government debt securities, which pay a fixed rate of interest. These securities are subject to interest rate risk and the fair value of these securities will decrease if market interest rates increase. If market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by a hypothetical 100 basis points from levels as of December 31, 2023, the fair value of this portfolio would decline by $3 million. Debt Obligations As of December 31, 2023, substantially all of our debt obligations were fixed-rate obligations. Interest rates on certain tranches of notes are subject to adjustment to the extent our debt rating is downgraded below investment grade, as further discussed in Note 9, “Debt Obligations,” to the consolidated financial statements. While changes in interest rates will have no impact on the interest we pay on fixed-rate obligations, we are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of the borrowings under our 2022 Revolving Credit Facility, our commercial paper program and the 2023 Term Loan as these facilities have a variable interest rate. As of December 31, 2023, we have $291 million outstanding borrowings under our commercial paper program and $339 million outstanding under the 2023 Term Loan. A hypothetical 100 basis points increase in interest rates on our outstanding commercial paper and our 2023 Term Loan would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $6 million based on borrowings as of December 31, 2023. We may utilize interest rate swap agreements to achieve a desired mix of variable and fixed rate debt. 50 Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk We are subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk. Our primary transactional exposure to foreign currency denominated revenues less transaction-based expenses and operating income for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 are presented in the following tables: __________ #    Represents multiple foreign currency rates. N/A    Not applicable. The adverse impacts shown above should be viewed individually by currency and not in aggregate due to the correlation between changes in exchanges rates for certain currencies. Our investments in foreign subsidiaries are exposed to volatility in currency exchange rates through translation of the foreign subsidiaries’ net assets or equity to U.S. dollars. Substantially all of our foreign subsidiaries operate in functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The financial statements of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars for consolidated reporting using a current rate of exchange, with net gains or losses recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders’ equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Our primary exposure to net assets in foreign currencies as of December 31, 2023 is presented in the following table: In the table above, Swedish Krona includes goodwill of $2,230 million and intangible assets, net of $498 million. Credit Risk Credit risk is the potential loss due to the default or deterioration in credit quality of customers or counterparties. We are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. We limit our exposure to credit risk by evaluating the counterparties with which we make investments and execute agreements. For our investment portfolio, our objective is to invest in securities to preserve principal while maximizing yields, without significantly increasing risk. Credit risk associated with investments is minimized substantially by ensuring that these financial assets are placed with governments which have investment grade ratings, well-capitalized financial institutions and other creditworthy counterparties. Our subsidiary, Nasdaq Execution Services, may be exposed to credit risk due to the default of trading counterparties in connection with the routing services it provides for our trading customers. System trades in cash equities routed to other market centers for members of our cash equity exchanges are routed by Nasdaq Execution Services for clearing to the NSCC. In this function, Nasdaq Execution Services is to be neutral by the end of the trading day, but may be exposed to intraday risk if a trade extends beyond the trading day and into the next day, thereby leaving Nasdaq Execution Services susceptible to counterparty risk in the period between accepting the trade and routing it to the clearinghouse. In this interim period, Nasdaq Execution Services is not novating like a clearing broker but instead is subject to the short-term risk of counterparty failure before 51 the clearinghouse enters the transaction. Once the clearinghouse officially accepts the trade for novation, Nasdaq Execution Services is legally removed from trade execution risk. However, Nasdaq has membership obligations to NSCC independent of Nasdaq Execution Services’ arrangements. Pursuant to the rules of the NSCC and Nasdaq Execution Services’ clearing agreement, Nasdaq Execution Services is liable for any losses incurred due to a counterparty or a clearing agent’s failure to satisfy its contractual obligations, either by making payment or delivering securities. Adverse movements in the prices of securities that are subject to these transactions can increase our credit risk. However, we believe that the risk of material loss is limited, as Nasdaq Execution Services’ customers are not permitted to trade on margin and NSCC rules limit counterparty risk on self-cleared transactions by establishing credit limits and capital deposit requirements for all brokers that clear with NSCC. Historically, Nasdaq Execution Services has never incurred a liability due to a customer’s failure to satisfy its contractual obligations as counterparty to a system trade. Credit difficulties or insolvency, or the perceived possibility of credit difficulties or insolvency, of one or more larger or visible market participants could also result in market-wide credit difficulties or other market disruptions. We have credit risk related to transaction and subscription-based revenues that are billed to customers on a monthly or quarterly basis, in arrears. Our potential exposure to credit losses on these transactions is represented by the receivable balances in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We review and evaluate changes in the status of our counterparties’ creditworthiness. Credit losses such as those described above could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. We also are exposed to credit risk through our clearing operations with Nasdaq Clearing. See Note 15, “Clearing Operations,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. Our clearinghouse holds material amounts of clearing member cash deposits, which are held or invested primarily to provide security of capital while minimizing credit, market and liquidity risks. While we seek to achieve a reasonable rate of return, we are primarily concerned with preservation of capital and managing the risks associated with these deposits. As the clearinghouse may pass on interest revenues (minus costs) to the members, this could include negative or reduced yield due to market conditions. The following is a summary of the risks associated with these deposits and how these risks are mitigated. • Credit Risk. When the clearinghouse has the ability to hold cash collateral at a central bank, the clearinghouse utilizes its access to the central bank system to minimize credit risk exposures. When funds are not held at a central bank, we seek to substantially mitigate credit risk by ensuring that investments are primarily placed in large, highly rated financial institutions, highly rated government debt instruments and other creditworthy counterparties. • Liquidity Risk. Liquidity risk is the risk a clearinghouse may not be able to meet its payment obligations in the right currency, in the right place and the right time. To mitigate this risk, the clearinghouse monitors liquidity requirements closely and maintains funds and assets in a manner which minimizes the risk of loss or delay in the access by the clearinghouse to such funds and assets. For example, holding funds with a central bank where possible or investing in highly liquid government debt instruments serves to reduce liquidity risks. • Interest Rate Risk. Interest rate risk is the risk that interest rates rise causing the value of purchased securities to decline. If we were required to sell securities prior to maturity, and interest rates had risen, the sale of the securities might be made at a loss relative to the latest market price. Our clearinghouse seeks to manage this risk by making short term investments of members’ cash deposits. In addition, the clearinghouse investment guidelines allow for direct purchases or repurchase agreements with short dated maturities of high quality sovereign debt (for example, European government and U.S. Treasury securities), central bank certificates and multilateral development bank debt instruments. • Security Issuer Risk. Security issuer risk is the risk that an issuer of a security defaults on its payment when the security matures. This risk is mitigated by limiting allowable investments and collateral under reverse repurchase agreements to high quality sovereign, government agency or multilateral development bank debt instruments. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” to the consolidated financial statements describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. The accounting policies described below are significantly affected by critical accounting estimates. Such accounting policies require significant judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, and actual results could differ materially from the amounts reported based on these policies . Revenue Recognition As part of our market technology product offering, we enter into certain long-term contracts with customers to develop customized technology solutions, license the right to use software and provide support and other services to our customers which results in these contracts containing multiple performance obligations. We allocate the contract transaction price to each performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price of each distinct 52 good or service in the contract. In instances where standalone selling price is not directly observable, such as when we do not sell the product or service separately, we determine the standalone selling price predominantly through an expected cost plus a margin approach. We generally recognize revenue over time as our customers simultaneously receive and consume the benefits provided by our performance because our customer controls the asset for which we are creating, our performance does not create an asset with alternative use, and we have a right to payment for performance completed to date. For these services, we recognize revenue over time using costs incurred to date relative to total estimated costs at completion to measure progress toward satisfying our performance obligation. Incurred costs represent work performed, which corresponds with, and thereby depicts, the transfer of control to the customer. Accounting for our long-term contracts requires judgment relative to assessing risks and their impact on the estimate of revenues and costs. Our estimates are impacted by factors such as the potential for schedule and technical issues, productivity and the complexity of work performed. Revenue and cost estimates for our long-term contracts are reviewed and reassessed at least quarterly. When adjustments in estimated total contract costs are required, any changes in the estimated revenues from prior estimates are recognized in the current period for the effect of such change. If estimates of total costs to be incurred on a contract exceed estimates of total revenues, a provision for the entire estimated loss on the contract is recorded in the period in which the loss is determined. Due to the significance of judgment in the estimation process, as discussed above, changes in assumptions and estimates may adversely or positively affect financial performance in future periods. For further discussion related to recognition of these revenues, see “Revenue From Contracts with Customers - Revenue Recognition - Market Technology,” of Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” to the consolidated financial statements. Business combination We account for business acquisitions under the acquisition method of accounting. The assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with business acquisitions are recorded at the date of acquisition at their estimated fair values, with any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired recorded as goodwill. Within one year from the date of acquisition, we may update the value allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, and the resulting goodwill balance, based on information received regarding the valuation of such assets and liabilities that was not available at the time of purchase. We use various methods to determine fair value depending on the type of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. We make estimates and assumptions about projected future cash flows including, but not limited to, forecasted revenue, cash flows, attrition rates, long term growth rates, royalty rates, EBITDA margin and discount rates. Significant judgment is required in estimating the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed and in assigning useful lives to certain definite-lived intangible and tangible assets. Accordingly, we may engage third-party valuation specialists to assist in these determinations. The fair value estimates are based on available information as of the acquisition date and assumptions deemed reasonable by management but are inherently uncertain. See Note 4, “Acquisitions,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the Adenza Acquisition. During 2023, 2022 and 2021, we have not recorded any material measurement period adjustments to purchase price allocations. Goodwill, Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets and Related Impairment Testing Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over the value assigned to the net assets, including identifiable intangible assets, of a business acquired. Goodwill is allocated to our reporting units based on the assignment of the fair values of each reporting unit of the acquired company. We recognize specifically identifiable intangibles, such as customer relationships, technology, exchange and clearing registrations, trade names and licenses when a specific right or contract is acquired. Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives, primarily exchange and clearing registrations, are not amortized but instead are tested for impairment at least annually as of October 1 and more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the fair value of the asset may be less than its carrying amount, such as changes in the business climate, poor indicators of operating performance or the sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. In November 2023, following the acquisition of Adenza, we refined our divisional structure. Our three previous reportable segments, Market Platforms, Capital Access Platforms and Anti-Financial Crime, have been changed to align with our new corporate structure that includes the following three segments: Capital Access Platforms, Financial Technology and Market Services. Under ASC 350-20, “Intangibles Goodwill and Other,” when a company reorganizes its reporting structure, an impairment test must be performed both before and after the change, and goodwill must be reassigned to reporting units. Accordingly, goodwill was reassigned based on relative fair value of each reporting unit. 53 We perform our goodwill impairment test at the reporting unit level. For 2023, we performed the goodwill impairment test under our previous organizational structure which included three reporting units: Market Platforms, Capital Access Platforms and Anti-Financial Crime segments and under our current organization structure, which includes the following three reporting units: Capital Access Platforms, Financial Technology and Market Services segments. When testing goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, we have the option of first performing a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit or indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than their respective carrying amounts as the basis to determine if it is necessary to perform a quantitative impairment test. If we choose not to complete a qualitative assessment, or if the initial assessment indicates that it is more likely than not that the carrying amount of a reporting unit or the carrying amount of an indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds their respective estimated fair values, a quantitative test is required. Our decision to perform a qualitative impairment assessment in a given year is influenced by a number of factors, including but not limited to, the size of the reporting unit’s goodwill, the significance of the excess of the reporting unit’s estimated fair value or the indefinite-lived intangible asset’s fair value over their respective carrying amounts at the last quantitative assessment date, and the amount of time in between quantitative fair value assessments. In performing a quantitative impairment test, we compare the fair value of each reporting unit and indefinite-lived intangible asset with their respective carrying amounts. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated using a combination of a discounted cash flow valuation, which incorporates assumptions regarding future growth rates, terminal values, and discount rates, as well as guideline public company valuations, which incorporates relevant trading multiples of comparable companies and other factors. The estimates and assumptions used consider historical performance and are consistent with the assumptions used in determining future profit plans for each reporting unit, which are approved by our board of directors. The fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets is primarily determined on the basis of estimated discounted value, using the Greenfield Approach for exchange and clearing registrations and licenses, and the relief from royalty approach or excess earnings approach for trade names, both of which incorporate assumptions regarding future revenue projections and discount rates. If the carrying amounts of the reporting unit or the indefinite-lived intangible asset exceed their respective fair values, an impairment charge is recognized in an amount equal to the difference, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit or the total carrying value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset. The following table presents the balances of goodwill for our reportable segments pre-segment realignment at the time of our 2023 annual impairment test: The following table presents the balances of goodwill for our reportable segments post segment realignment, excluding the goodwill acquired as part of the Adenza acquisition. The carrying value of goodwill was reassigned to our new reportable segments based on a relative fair value allocation approach. In 2023 and 2022, we elected to perform a quantitative impairment test for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. In conducting the quantitative assessment, we determined that the fair value of our goodwill for each of our reporting units and the fair value of our indefinite-lived intangible assets sufficiently exceed their respective carrying amounts. As a result, there were no goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment charges recorded in any of those years. Although we believe our estimates of fair value are reasonable, the determination of certain valuation inputs is subject to management’s judgment. Changes in these inputs could materially affect the results of our impairment review. If our forecasts of cash flows or other key inputs are negatively revised in the future, the estimated fair value of each reporting unit and of our indefinite-lived intangible assets would be adversely impacted, potentially leading to an impairment in the future that could materially affect our operating results. Subsequent to our annual impairment test, no indications of impairment were identified. Other Long-Lived Assets and Related Impairment We review our other long-lived assets, such as finite-lived intangible assets, property and equipment, and operating lease assets for potential impairment when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The carrying amount of an asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. Fair value of finite-lived intangible assets and property and equipment is based on various valuation techniques. Any required impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value and is recorded as a reduction in the carrying amount of the related asset and a charge to operating results. 54 There were no material finite-lived intangible assets impairment charges in 2023 and 2022. We recorded an impairment charge of $14 million in 2021 related to a finite-lived intangible asset for customer relationships associated with the wind down of a previous acquisition included in depreciation and amortization expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income. We recorded pre-tax, non-cash property and equipment asset impairment charges of $12 million in 2023, $14 million in 2022 and $4 million in 2021. See Note 20, “Restructuring Charges,” to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of these plans. In the first quarter of 2023, we initiated a review of our real estate and facility capacity requirements due to our new and evolving work models. As a result of this ongoing review, we recorded impairment charges of $23 million in 2023 of which $18 million related to operating lease asset impairment and exit costs and is included in occupancy expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income and $5 million related to impairment of leasehold improvements, which are recorded in depreciation and amortization expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income. We fully impaired our lease assets for locations that we vacated with no intention to sublease. Substantially all of the property, equipment and leasehold improvements associated with the vacated leased office space were fully impaired as there are no expected future cash flows for these items. No material impairments were recorded to reduce the carrying value of our other long-lived assets during 2023, 2022 or 2021. Income Taxes Estimates and judgments are required in the calculation of certain tax liabilities and in the determination of the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets, which arise from net operating loss carryforwards, tax credit carryforwards and temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenues and expenses. Our deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the recorded deferred tax assets will not be realized in future periods. Management is required to determine whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. Once it is determined that a position meets the recognition thresholds, the position is measured to determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in the consolidated financial statements. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence including past operating results, the existence of cumulative losses in the most recent fiscal years, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. In the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. In addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves uncertainties in the application of tax regulations in the U.S. and other tax jurisdictions. We recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in such jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest may be due. While we believe that our tax liabilities reflect the probable outcome of identified tax uncertainties, it is reasonably possible that the ultimate resolution of any tax matter may be greater or less than the amount accrued. If events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. If our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would result.