********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Risks Relating to NEE's and FPL's Business The business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of NEE and FPL are subject to a variety of risks, many of which are beyond the control of NEE and FPL. These risks, whether or not expressly stated with respect to any particular risk factor, as well as additional risks and uncertainties either not presently known or that are currently believed to not be material to the business, may materially adversely affect the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of NEE and FPL and may cause actual results of NEE and FPL to differ substantially from those that NEE or FPL currently expects or seeks. In that event, the market price for the securities of NEE or FPL could decline. Accordingly, the risks described below should be carefully considered together with the other information set forth in this report and in future reports that NEE and FPL file with the SEC. Regulatory, Legislative and Legal Risks NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected by the extensive regulation of their business. The operations of NEE and FPL are subject to complex and comprehensive federal, state and other regulation. This extensive regulatory framework, portions of which are more specifically identified in the following risk factors, regulates, among other things and to varying degrees, NEE's and FPL's industry, businesses, operations, and rates and cost structures, including: permitting, planning, construction and operation of electric generation, storage, transmission and distribution facilities and natural gas, oil and other fuel production, transportation, processing and storage facilities; acquisitions, disposals, depreciation and amortization of facilities and other assets; decommissioning costs and funding; service reliability; wholesale and retail competition; and commodities trading and derivatives transactions. In their business planning and in the management of their operations, NEE and FPL must address the effects of regulation on their business and any inability or failure to do so adequately could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected if they are unable to recover in a timely manner any significant amount of costs, a return on certain assets or a reasonable return on invested capital through base rates, cost recovery clauses, other regulatory mechanisms or otherwise. FPL operates as an electric utility and is subject to the jurisdiction of the FPSC over a wide range of business activities, including, among other items, the retail rates charged to its customers through base rates and cost recovery clauses, the terms and conditions of its services, procurement of electricity for its customers and fuel for its plant operations, issuances of securities, and aspects of the siting, planning, construction and operation of its generation plants and transmission and distribution systems for the sale of electric energy. The FPSC has the authority to disallow recovery by FPL of costs that it considers excessive or imprudently incurred, including those incurred to transition to lower carbon emission technology, and to determine the level of return that FPL is permitted to earn on invested capital. The regulatory process, which may be adversely affected by the geopolitical, political, regulatory, operational and economic environment in Florida and elsewhere, limits or could otherwise adversely impact FPL's earnings. The regulatory process also does not provide any assurance as to achievement of authorized or other earnings levels, or that FPL will be permitted to earn an acceptable return on capital investments it wishes to make. NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected if any material amount of costs, a return on certain assets or a reasonable return on invested capital cannot be recovered through base rates, cost recovery clauses, other regulatory mechanisms or otherwise. Certain other subsidiaries of NEE are utilities subject to the jurisdiction of their regulators and are subject to similar risks. Regulatory decisions that are important to NEE and FPL may be materially adversely affected by political, regulatory, operational and economic factors. The local and national political, regulatory and economic environment has had, and may in the future have, an adverse effect on regulatory decisions with negative consequences for NEE and FPL. These decisions, which may come from any level of government, may require, for example, FPL or NEER to cancel or delay planned development activities, to reduce or delay other planned capital expenditures or to pay for investments or otherwise incur costs that it may not be able to recover through rates or otherwise, each of which could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of NEE and FPL. Any reductions or modifications to, or the elimination of, governmental incentives or policies that support utility scale renewable energy, including, but not limited to, tax laws, policies and incentives, RPS and feed-in-tariffs, or the imposition of additional taxes, tariffs, duties or other assessments on renewable energy or the equipment necessary to generate or deliver it, could result in, among other items, the lack of a satisfactory market for the development and/or financing of new renewable energy projects, NEE and FPL abandoning the development of renewable energy projects, a loss of investments in renewable energy projects and reduced project returns, any of which could have a material adverse effect on NEE and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 21 NEE depends heavily on government policies that support utility scale renewable energy and enhance the economic feasibility of developing and operating wind and solar energy projects in regions in which NEER and FPL operate or plan to develop and operate renewable energy facilities. The federal government, a majority of state governments in the U.S. and portions of Canada provide incentives, such as tax incentives, RPS or feed-in-tariffs, that support or are designed to support the sale of energy from utility scale renewable energy facilities, such as wind and solar energy facilities. The development of renewable energy facilities at acceptable prices has not historically been burdened by actions taken by the U.S. government. However, as a result of budgetary constraints, geopolitical factors, political factors or otherwise, governments from time to time may review their laws and policies that support, or do not overly burden, the development and operation of renewable energy facilities and, instead, consider actions that would make the laws and policies less conducive to the development and operation of renewable energy facilities. Any reductions or modifications to, or the elimination of, governmental incentives or policies that support renewable energy, such as the IRA, or the imposition of additional taxes, tariffs, duties or other assessments on renewable energy or the equipment necessary to generate or deliver it, such as policies in place that limit certain imports from China and other Southeast Asian countries, could result in, among other items, the lack of a satisfactory market for the development and/or financing of new renewable energy projects, NEE and FPL abandoning the development of renewable energy projects, a loss of investments in the projects and reduced project returns, any of which could have a material adverse effect on NEE and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected as a result of new or revised laws or regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations. NEE's and FPL's business is influenced by various legislative and regulatory initiatives, including, but not limited to, new or revised laws, including international trade laws, regulations and interpretations, constitutional ballot and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation or restructuring of the energy industry, regulation of the commodities trading and derivatives markets, and regulation of environmental matters, such as regulation of air emissions, regulation of water consumption and water discharges, and regulation of gas and oil infrastructure operations, as well as associated environmental permitting. Changes in the nature of the regulation of NEE's and FPL's business could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE and FPL are unable to predict future legislative or regulatory changes, including through constitutional ballot initiatives or changed legal or regulatory interpretations, although any such changes may increase costs and competitive pressures on NEE and FPL, which could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. FPL has limited, but growing, competition in the Florida market for retail electricity customers and is not subject to a RPS. Any changes in Florida law or regulation, whether through new or modified legislation or regulation or through citizen-approved state constitutional ballot initiatives, which increase competition in the Florida retail electricity market, such as government incentives that would further facilitate the installation of solar generation facilities on residential or other rooftops, would permit third-party sales of electricity or would mandate the transition to renewable energy at FPL, could have a material adverse effect on FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. There can be no assurance that FPL would be able to respond adequately to such regulatory changes, which could have a material adverse effect on FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEER is subject to FERC rules related to transmission that are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale market on practically a nationwide basis. NEE cannot predict the impact of changing FERC rules or policies of the RTOs and ISOs, such as rules governing generator interconnection procedures and transmission planning requirements and cost allocation methodologies, or the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are typically driven by factors beyond NEE's control. There can be no assurance that NEER will be able to respond adequately or sufficiently quickly to such rules and developments, which may impact the ability, timeline and cost of interconnecting new or repowered energy projects to the transmission system and the availability of transmission system capacity to deliver energy products to market, or to any changes that reverse or restrict the competitive restructuring of the energy industry in those jurisdictions in which such restructuring has occurred. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on NEE's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE and FPL are subject to numerous environmental laws, regulations and other standards that may result in capital expenditures, increased operating costs and various liabilities, and may require NEE and FPL to limit or eliminate certain operations. NEE and FPL are subject to domestic environmental laws, regulations and other standards, including, but not limited to, extensive federal, state and local environmental statutes, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality and usage, soil quality, climate change, emissions of greenhouse gases, waste management, hazardous wastes, marine, avian, bat and other wildlife mortality and habitat protection, historical artifact preservation, natural resources, health (including, but not limited to, electric and magnetic fields from power lines and substations), safety and RPS, that could, among other things, prevent or delay the development of power generation, power or natural gas transmission, or other infrastructure projects, restrict or enjoin the output of some existing facilities, limit the availability and use of some fuels required for the production of electricity, require additional pollution control equipment, and otherwise increase costs, increase capital expenditures and limit or eliminate certain 22 operations. Certain subsidiaries of NEE are also subject to foreign environmental laws, regulations and other standards and, as such, are subject to similar risks. There are significant capital, operating and other costs associated with compliance with these environmental statutes, rules and regulations, and those costs could be even more significant in the future as a result of new requirements, stricter or more expansive application of existing environmental laws and regulations, and the addition of species, such as additional bat species, to the endangered species list. Violations of current or future laws, rules, regulations or other standards could expose NEE and FPL to regulatory and legal proceedings, disputes with, and legal challenges by, governmental entities and third parties, and potentially significant civil fines, criminal penalties and other sanctions, such as restrictions on how NextEra Energy Resources develops, sites and operates wind facilities. These violations could result in, without limitation, litigation regarding property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance and enforcement by citizens or governmental authorities of environmental requirements. For example, one of NextEra Energy Resources' subsidiaries is currently on probation as a result of accidental collisions of eagles into wind turbines at a number of NextEra Energy Resources' wind facilities. If NextEra Energy Resources' subsidiary violates the terms of the probation, or fails to obtain eagle “take” permits under the BGEPA or incidental take permits under the ESA for certain of its wind facilities and additional eagles or listed species, like cave bats, perish in collisions with facility turbines, NextEra Energy Resources or its subsidiaries could face criminal prosecution under these laws. NEE's and FPL's business could be negatively affected by federal or state laws or regulations mandating new or additional limits on the production of greenhouse gas emissions. Federal or state laws or regulations may be adopted that would impose new or additional limits on the emissions of greenhouse gases, including, but not limited to, carbon dioxide and methane, from electric generation units using fuels, such as natural gas. The potential effects of greenhouse gas emission limits on NEE's and FPL's electric generation units are subject to significant uncertainties based on, among other things, the timing of the implementation of any new requirements, the required levels of emission reductions, the nature of any market-based or tax-based mechanisms adopted to facilitate reductions, the relative availability of greenhouse gas emission reduction offsets, the development of cost-effective, commercial-scale carbon capture and storage technology and supporting regulations and liability mitigation measures, and the range of available compliance alternatives. While NEE's and FPL's electric generation portfolio emits greenhouse gases at a lower rate of emissions than most of the U.S. electric generation sector, the results of operations of NEE and FPL could be materially adversely affected to the extent that new federal or state laws or regulations impose any new greenhouse gas emission limits. Any future limits on greenhouse gas emissions could: • create substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emissions allowances; • make some of NEE's and FPL's electric generation units uneconomical to operate in the long term; • require significant capital investment in carbon capture and storage technology, fuel switching, or the replacement of high-emitting generation facilities with lower-emitting generation facilities; or • affect the availability or cost of fuel, such as natural gas. There can be no assurance that NEE or FPL would be able to completely recover any such costs or investments, which could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Extensive federal regulation of the operations and businesses of NEE and FPL exposes NEE and FPL to significant and increasing compliance costs and may also expose them to substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions for compliance failures. NEE's and FPL's operations and businesses are subject to extensive federal regulation, which generally imposes significant and increasing compliance costs on their operations and businesses. Additionally, any actual or alleged compliance failures could result in significant costs and other potentially adverse effects of regulatory investigations, proceedings, settlements, decisions and claims, including, among other items, potentially significant monetary penalties. As an example, under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, NEE and FPL, as owners and operators of bulk-power transmission systems and/or electric generation facilities, are subject to mandatory reliability standards. Compliance with these mandatory reliability standards may subject NEE and FPL to higher operating costs and may result in increased capital expenditures. If FPL or NEE is found not to be in compliance with these standards, they may incur substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions. Both the costs of regulatory compliance and the costs that may be imposed as a result of any actual or alleged compliance failures could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 23 Changes in tax laws, guidance or policies, including but not limited to changes in corporate income tax rates, as well as judgments and estimates used in the determination of tax-related asset and liability amounts, could materially adversely affect NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE's and FPL's provision for income taxes and reporting of tax-related assets and liabilities require significant judgments and the use of estimates. Amounts of tax-related assets and liabilities involve judgments and estimates of the timing and probability of recognition of income, deductions and tax credits, including, but not limited to, estimates for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken and the ability to utilize tax benefit carryforwards, such as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Actual income taxes could vary significantly from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of, among other things, changes in tax laws, guidance or policies, including changes in corporate income tax rates, the issuance of guidance related to the qualification for renewable energy tax credits, the financial condition and results of operations of NEE and FPL, and the resolution of audit issues raised by taxing authorities. These factors, including the ultimate resolution of income tax matters, may result in material adjustments to tax-related assets and liabilities, which could materially adversely affect NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially adversely affected due to adverse results of litigation. NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially affected by adverse results of litigation. Unfavorable resolution of legal or administrative proceedings in which NEE or FPL is involved or other future legal or administrative proceedings may have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of NEE and FPL. Allegations of violations of law by FPL or NEE have the potential to result in fines, penalties, or other sanctions or effects, as well as cause reputational damage for FPL and NEE, and could hamper FPL’s and NEE’s effectiveness in interacting with governmental authorities. FPL’s and NEE’s business and reputation could be adversely affected by allegations that FPL or NEE has violated laws, by any investigations or proceedings that arise from such allegations, or by ultimate determinations of legal violations. For example, media articles have been published that allege, among other things, Florida state and federal campaign finance law violations by FPL. These articles are referenced in a complaint subsequently filed with the Federal Election Commission (FEC) that alleges certain violations of the Federal Election Campaign Act. FPL and NEE cannot guarantee that the FEC complaint process will not ultimately result in a finding that FPL or NEE violated federal campaign finance or other laws, that applicable federal or state governmental authorities may not investigate or take enforcement actions with respect to the allegations or assert that legal violations by FPL or NEE have occurred, or that violations may not ultimately be found by a court of competent jurisdiction or other authorities to have occurred. In addition, notwithstanding the completion or pendency of any internal review or investigation by FPL or NEE of any allegations of legal violations, including of the allegations regarding campaign finance laws set forth in the media articles or FEC complaint, FPL and NEE cannot provide assurance that any of the foregoing will not result in the imposition of material fines, penalties, or otherwise result in other sanctions or effects on FPL or NEE, or will not have a material adverse impact on the reputation of NEE or FPL or on the effectiveness of their interactions with governmental regulators or other authorities. Development and Operational Risks NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could suffer if NEE and FPL do not proceed with projects under development or are unable to complete the construction of, or capital improvements to, electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities or other facilities on schedule or within budget. NEE's and FPL's ability to proceed with projects under development and to complete construction of, and capital improvement projects for, their electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities and other facilities on schedule and within budget have been, in limited instances, and in the future may be, adversely affected by escalating costs for materials and labor and regulatory compliance, inability to obtain or renew necessary licenses, rights-of-way, permits or other approvals on acceptable terms or on schedule, disputes involving contractors, labor organizations, land owners, governmental entities, environmental groups, Native American and aboriginal groups, lessors, joint venture partners, suppliers and other third parties, negative publicity, transmission interconnection issues, geopolitical factors, supply chain disruptions, inflation, rising interest rates and other factors. For example, the ability of NEE and FPL to develop solar generation facilities is dependent on the international supply chain for solar panels and associated equipment, and governmental or regulatory actions have caused minor, and could in the future cause material, disruptions in the ability of NEE and FPL to acquire solar panels on time and at acceptable costs. If any development project or construction or capital improvement project is not completed, is delayed or is subject to cost overruns, certain associated costs may not be approved for recovery or otherwise be recoverable through regulatory mechanisms that may be available, and NEE and FPL could become obligated to make delay or termination payments or become obligated for other damages under contracts, could experience the loss of tax credits or tax incentives, or delayed or diminished returns, and could be required to write off all or a portion of their investment in the project. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 24 NEE and FPL face risks related to project siting, financing, construction, permitting, governmental approvals and the negotiation of project development agreements that may impede their development and operating activities. NEE and FPL own, develop, construct, manage and operate electric generation and transmission facilities and natural gas transmission facilities. A key component of NEE's and FPL's growth is their ability to construct and operate generation and transmission facilities to meet customer needs. As part of these operations, NEE and FPL must periodically apply for licenses and permits from various local, state, federal and other regulatory authorities and abide by their respective conditions. Should NEE or FPL be unsuccessful in obtaining necessary licenses or permits on acceptable terms or resolving third-party challenges to such licenses or permits, should there be a delay in obtaining or renewing necessary licenses or permits or should regulatory authorities initiate any associated investigations or enforcement actions or impose related penalties or disallowances on NEE or FPL, NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Any failure to negotiate successful project development agreements for new facilities with third parties could have similar results. The operation and maintenance of NEE's and FPL's electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities and other facilities are subject to many operational risks, the consequences of which could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE's and FPL's electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities and other facilities are subject to many operational risks. Operational risks could result in, among other things, lost revenues due to prolonged outages, increased expenses due to monetary penalties or fines for compliance failures or legal claims, liability to third parties for property and personal injury damage or loss of life, a failure to perform under applicable power sales agreements or other agreements and associated loss of revenues from terminated agreements or liability for liquidated damages under continuing agreements, and replacement equipment costs or an obligation to purchase or generate replacement power at higher prices. Uncertainties and risks inherent in operating and maintaining NEE's and FPL's facilities include, but are not limited to: • risks associated with facility start-up operations, such as whether the facility will achieve projected operating performance on schedule and otherwise as planned; • failures in the availability, acquisition or transportation of fuel or other necessary supplies; • the impact of unusual or adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, extreme temperatures, icing events, wildfires, floods, severe convective storms, earthquakes and droughts; • performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency; • breakdown or failure, including, but not limited to, explosions, fires, leaks or other major events, of equipment, transmission or distribution systems or pipelines; • availability of replacement equipment; • risks of property damage, human injury or loss of life from energized equipment, hazardous substances or explosions, fires, leaks or other events, especially where facilities are located near populated areas; • potential environmental impacts of gas infrastructure operations; • risks associated with potential harm to wildlife; • availability of adequate water resources and ability to satisfy water intake and discharge requirements; • inability to identify, manage properly or mitigate equipment defects in NEE's and FPL's facilities; • use of new or unproven technology; • risks associated with dependence on a specific type of fuel or fuel source, such as commodity price risk, availability of adequate fuel supply and transportation, and lack of available alternative fuel sources; • increased competition due to, among other factors, new facilities, excess supply, shifting demand and regulatory changes (such as the passage of the IRA); and • insufficient insurance, warranties or performance guarantees to cover any or all lost revenues or increased expenses from the foregoing. NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be negatively affected by a lack of growth, slower growth or a decline in the number of customers or in customer usage. Growth in customer accounts and growth of customer usage each directly influence the demand for electricity and the need for additional power generation and power delivery facilities, as well as the need for energy-related commodities, such as natural gas. Customer growth and customer usage are affected by a number of factors outside the control of NEE and FPL, such as mandated energy efficiency measures, demand side management requirements, installation of distributed generation technologies and economic and demographic conditions, such as population changes, job and income growth, housing starts, new business formation, inflation and the overall level of economic activity. A lack of growth, or a decline, in the number of customers or in customer demand for electricity or natural gas and other fuels may cause NEE and FPL to fail to fully realize the anticipated benefits from significant investments and expenditures and could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's growth, business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 25 NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects can be materially adversely affected by weather conditions and related impacts, including, but not limited to, the impact of severe weather. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and other fuels and affect the price of energy and energy-related commodities. In addition, severe weather and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, droughts, extreme temperatures, icing events, wildfires, severe convective storms and earthquakes, can be destructive and cause power outages, personal injury and property damage, reduce revenue, affect the availability of fuel and water, and require NEE and FPL to incur additional costs, for example, to restore service and repair damaged facilities, to obtain replacement power, to access available financing sources, to obtain insurance, to pay for any associated injuries and damages and to fund any associated legal matters and compliance penalties. Furthermore, NEE's and FPL's physical plants could be placed at greater risk of damage should changes in the global climate produce unusual variations in temperature and weather patterns, resulting in more intense, frequent and extreme weather events, abnormal levels of precipitation and, particularly relevant to FPL, a change in sea level. FPL operates in the east and lower west coasts of Florida and in northwest Florida, areas that historically have been prone to severe weather events, such as hurricanes. A disruption or failure of electric generation, transmission or distribution systems or natural gas production, transmission, storage or distribution systems in the event of a hurricane, tornado or other severe weather event, or otherwise, could prevent NEE and FPL from operating their business in the normal course and could result in any of the adverse consequences described above. Additionally, the actions taken to address the potential for severe weather such as additional winterizing of critical equipment and infrastructure, modifying or alternating plant operations and expanding load shedding options could result in significant increases in costs. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. At FPL and other businesses of NEE where cost recovery is available, recovery of costs to restore service, to repair damaged facilities or for other actions to address severe weather is or may be subject to regulatory approval, and any determination by the regulator not to permit timely and full recovery of the costs incurred could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Changes in weather can also affect the production of electricity at power generation facilities, including, but not limited to, NEER's wind and solar facilities. For example, the level of wind resource affects the revenue produced by wind generation facilities. Because the levels of wind and solar resources are variable and difficult to predict, NEER's results of operations for individual wind and solar facilities specifically, and NEE's results of operations generally, may vary significantly from period to period, depending on the level of available resources. To the extent that resources are not available at planned levels, the financial results from these facilities may be less than expected. Threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from geopolitical factors, terrorism, cyberattacks, or individuals and/or groups attempting to disrupt NEE's and FPL's business, or the businesses of third parties, may materially adversely affect NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE and FPL are subject to the potentially adverse operating and financial effects of geopolitical factors, terrorist acts and threats, as well as cyberattacks and other disruptive activities of individuals or groups. There have been cyberattacks and other physical attacks within the energy industry on energy infrastructure such as substations, gas pipelines and related assets in the past and there may be such attacks in the future. In addition, the advancement of artificial intelligence has given rise to added vulnerabilities and potential entry points for cyberattacks. NEE's and FPL's generation, transmission, storage and distribution facilities, information technology systems and other infrastructure facilities and systems could be direct targets of, or otherwise be materially adversely affected by, such activities. Geopolitical factors, terrorist acts, cyberattacks or other similar events affecting NEE's and FPL's systems and facilities, or those of third parties on which NEE and FPL rely, could harm NEE's and FPL's businesses by, for example, limiting their ability to generate, purchase, store or transmit power, natural gas or other energy-related commodities, limiting their ability to bill customers and collect and process payments, and delaying their development and construction of new generation, distribution, storage or transmission facilities or capital improvements to existing facilities. These events, and governmental actions in response, could result in a material decrease in revenues, significant additional costs (for example, to repair assets, implement additional security requirements or maintain or acquire insurance), significant fines and penalties, and reputational damage, could materially adversely affect NEE's and FPL's operations (for example, by contributing to disruption of supplies and markets for natural gas, oil and other fuels), and could impair NEE's and FPL's ability to raise capital (for example, by contributing to financial instability and lower economic activity). In addition, the implementation of security guidelines and measures has resulted in and is expected to continue to result in increased costs. Such events or actions may materially adversely affect NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The ability of NEE and FPL to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be materially adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. NEE's and FPL's insurance coverage does not provide protection against all significant losses. Insurance coverage may not continue to be available or may not be available at rates or on terms similar to those presently available to NEE and FPL. The ability of NEE and FPL to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be materially adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, including 26 impacts of actual or perceived climate-related events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. If NEE or FPL cannot or does not obtain insurance coverage, NEE or FPL may be required to pay costs associated with adverse future events. NEE and FPL generally are not fully insured against all significant losses. For example, NEE, including FPL, does not have property insurance coverage for a substantial portion of its transmission and distribution property and natural gas pipeline assets. A loss for which NEE or FPL is not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE invests in gas and oil producing and transmission assets through NEER’s gas infrastructure business. The gas infrastructure business is exposed to fluctuating market prices of natural gas, natural gas liquids, oil and other energy commodities. A prolonged period of low gas and oil prices could impact NEER’s gas infrastructure business and cause NEER to delay or cancel certain gas infrastructure projects and could result in certain projects becoming impaired, which could materially adversely affect NEE's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Natural gas and oil prices are affected by supply and demand, both globally and regionally. Factors that influence supply and demand include operational issues, natural disasters, weather, political instability, conflicts, new discoveries, technological advances, economic conditions and actions by major oil-producing countries. There can be significant volatility in market prices for gas and oil, and price fluctuations could have a material effect on the financial performance of gas and oil producing and transmission assets. For example, in a low gas and oil price environment, NEER would generate less revenue from its gas infrastructure investments in gas and oil producing properties, and as a result certain investments might become less profitable or incur losses. Prolonged periods of low oil and gas prices could also result in the delay or cancellation of oil and gas production and transmission projects, could cause projects to experience lower returns, and could result in certain projects becoming impaired, which could materially adversely affect NEE's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If supply costs necessary to provide NEER's full energy and capacity requirement services are not favorable, operating costs could increase and materially adversely affect NEE's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEER provides full energy and capacity requirements services primarily to distribution utilities, which include load-following services and various ancillary services, to satisfy all or a portion of such utilities' power supply obligations to their customers. The supply costs for these transactions may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, events that may occur after such utilities have committed to supply power, such as weather conditions, transmission constraints, fluctuating prices for, and locational disconnects in, energy and ancillary services, and the ability of the distribution utilities' customers to elect to receive service from competing suppliers. NEER may not be able to recover all of its increased supply costs, which could have a material adverse effect on NEE's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Due to the potential for significant volatility in market prices for fuel, electricity and renewable and other energy commodities, NEER's inability or failure to manage properly or hedge effectively the commodity risks within its portfolios could materially adversely affect NEE's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. There can be significant volatility in market prices for fuel, electricity and renewable and other energy commodities, both in general and across geographies. NEE's inability or failure to manage properly or hedge effectively its assets or positions against changes in commodity prices, volumes, interest rates, counterparty credit risk or other risk measures, based on factors that are either within, or wholly or partially outside of, NEE's control, may materially adversely affect NEE's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Reductions in the liquidity of energy markets may restrict the ability of NEE to manage its operational risks, which, in turn, could negatively affect NEE's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE is an active participant in energy markets. Liquidity in energy markets can be described as the degree to which a product, such as electricity, gas or transmission rights, can be quickly bought or sold without significantly affecting its price and without incurring significant transaction costs. It can be driven in part by the number of active market participants and is an important factor in NEE's ability to manage risks in its participation in these markets. Liquidity in the energy markets can be adversely affected by price volatility, restrictions on the availability of credit, inflation, rising interest rates and other factors, and any reduction in the liquidity of energy markets could have a material adverse effect on NEE's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE's and FPL's hedging and trading procedures and associated risk management tools may not protect against significant losses. NEE and FPL have hedging and trading procedures and associated risk management tools, such as separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. NEE and FPL are unable to assure that such procedures and tools will be effective against all potential risks, including, without limitation, employee misconduct or severe weather or operating conditions. If such procedures 27 and tools are not effective, this could have a material adverse effect on NEE's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If price movements significantly or persistently deviate from historical behavior, NEE's and FPL's risk management tools associated with their hedging and trading procedures may not protect against significant losses. NEE's and FPL's risk management tools and metrics associated with their hedging and trading procedures, such as daily value at risk, earnings at risk, stop loss limits and liquidity guidelines, are based on historical price movements. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in price movements and potential deviation from historical pricing behavior, NEE and FPL are unable to assure that their risk management tools and metrics will be effective to protect against material adverse effects on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If power transmission or natural gas, nuclear fuel or other commodity transportation facilities are unavailable or disrupted, the ability for subsidiaries of NEE, including FPL, to sell and deliver power or natural gas may be limited. Subsidiaries of NEE, including FPL, depend upon power transmission and natural gas, nuclear fuel and other commodity transportation facilities, many of which they do not own. Occurrences affecting the operation of these facilities that may or may not be beyond the control of subsidiaries of NEE, including FPL, (such as geopolitical factors, cyber incidents, physical attacks, severe weather or a generation or transmission facility outage, pipeline rupture, or sudden and significant increase or decrease in wind or solar generation) may limit or halt their ability to sell and deliver power and natural gas, or to purchase necessary fuels and other commodities, which could materially adversely impact NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE and FPL are subject to credit and performance risk from customers, hedging counterparties and vendors. NEE and FPL are exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness and performance of their customers, hedging counterparties and vendors under contracts for the supply of equipment, materials, fuel and other goods and services required for their business operations and for the construction and operation of, and for capital improvements to, their facilities. Adverse conditions in the energy industry or the general economy such as inflation, as well as circumstances of individual customers, hedging counterparties and vendors, may adversely affect the ability of some customers, hedging counterparties and vendors to perform as required under their contracts with NEE and FPL. If any vendor or hedging or other counterparty fails to fulfill its contractual obligations, NEE and FPL may need to make arrangements with other counterparties or vendors, which could result in material financial losses, higher costs, untimely completion of power generation facilities and other projects, and/or a disruption of their operations. If a defaulting counterparty is in poor financial condition, NEE and FPL may not be able to recover damages for any contract breach. NEE and FPL could recognize financial losses or a reduction in operating cash flows if a counterparty fails to perform or make payments in accordance with the terms of derivative contracts or if NEE or FPL is required to post margin cash collateral under derivative contracts. NEE and FPL use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, some of which are traded in the OTC markets or on exchanges, to manage their commodity and financial market risks, and for NEE to engage in trading and marketing activities. Any failures by their counterparties to perform or make payments in accordance with the terms of those transactions could have a material adverse effect on NEE's or FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Similarly, any requirement for FPL or NEE to post margin cash collateral under its derivative contracts could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. These risks may be increased during periods of adverse market or economic conditions such as inflation affecting the industry in which NEE and FPL participate. NEE and FPL are highly dependent on sensitive and complex information technology systems, and any failure or breach of those systems could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE and FPL operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continuous functioning of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. Despite NEE's and FPL's implementation of security measures, all of their technology systems are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access due to such activities. If NEE's or FPL's information technology systems were to fail or be breached, sensitive confidential and other data could be compromised and NEE and FPL could be unable to fulfill critical business functions. NEE's and FPL's businesses are highly dependent on NEE's and FPL's ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a very large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex and cross numerous and diverse markets. Due to the size, scope, complexity and geographical reach of NEE's and FPL's business, the development and maintenance of information technology systems to keep track of and process information is critical and challenging. NEE's and FPL's operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are either within, or wholly or partially outside 28 of, their control, such as operator error, severe weather, geopolitical activities, terrorist activities or cyber incidents. Any such failure or disabling event could materially adversely affect NEE's and FPL's ability to process transactions and provide services, and their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE and FPL add, modify and replace information systems on a regular basis. Modifying existing information systems or implementing new or replacement information systems is costly and involves risks, including, but not limited to, integrating the modified, new or replacement system with existing systems and processes, implementing associated changes in accounting procedures and controls, and ensuring that data conversion is accurate and consistent. Any disruptions or deficiencies in existing information systems, or disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the modification or implementation of new information systems, could result in increased costs, the inability to track or collect revenues and the diversion of management's and employees' attention and resources, and could negatively impact the effectiveness of the companies' control environment, and/or the companies' ability to timely file required regulatory reports. NEE and FPL also face the risks of operational failure or capacity constraints associated with the information systems of third parties, including, but not limited to, those who provide power transmission and natural gas transportation services. NEE's and FPL's retail businesses are subject to the risk that sensitive customer data may be compromised, which could result in a material adverse impact to their reputation and/or have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of NEE and FPL. NEE's and FPL's retail businesses require access to sensitive customer data in the ordinary course of business. NEE's and FPL's retail businesses may also need to provide sensitive customer data to vendors and service providers who require access to this information in order to provide services, such as call center services, to the retail businesses. If a significant breach occurred, the reputation of NEE and FPL could be materially adversely affected, customer confidence could be diminished, or customer information could be subject to identity theft. NEE and FPL would be subject to costs associated with the breach and/or NEE and FPL could be subject to fines and legal claims, any of which may have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of NEE and FPL. NEE and FPL could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of derivative instruments and limited liquidity in OTC markets. NEE and FPL execute transactions in derivative instruments on either recognized exchanges or via the OTC markets, depending on management's assessment of the most favorable credit and market execution factors. Transactions executed in OTC markets have the potential for greater volatility and less liquidity than transactions on recognized exchanges. As a result, NEE and FPL may not be able to execute desired OTC transactions due to such heightened volatility and limited liquidity. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of derivative instruments involves management's judgment and use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these derivative instruments and have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE and FPL may be materially adversely affected by negative publicity. From time to time, political and public sentiment may result in a significant amount of adverse press coverage and other adverse public statements affecting NEE and FPL. Adverse press coverage and other adverse statements, whether or not driven by political or public sentiment, may also result in investigations by regulators, legislators and law enforcement officials or in legal claims. Responding to the negative publicity and any resulting investigations and lawsuits, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceeding, can divert the time and effort of senior management from NEE's and FPL's business. Addressing any adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny or enforcement or other legal proceedings is time consuming and expensive and, regardless of the factual basis for the assertions being made, can have a negative impact on the reputation of NEE and FPL, on the morale and performance of their employees and on their relationships with regulators. It may also have a negative impact on their ability to take timely advantage of various business and market opportunities. The direct and indirect effects of negative publicity, and the demands of responding to and addressing it, may have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be adversely affected if FPL is unable to maintain, negotiate or renegotiate franchise agreements on acceptable terms with municipalities and counties in Florida. FPL may negotiate franchise agreements with municipalities and counties in Florida to provide electric services within such municipalities and counties, and electricity sales generated pursuant to these agreements represent a very substantial portion of FPL's revenues. If FPL is unable to maintain, negotiate or renegotiate such franchise agreements on acceptable terms, it could contribute to lower earnings and FPL may not fully realize the anticipated benefits from significant investments and expenditures, which could adversely affect NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 29 NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected by work strikes or stoppages and increasing personnel costs. Employee strikes or work stoppages could disrupt operations and lead to a loss of revenue and customers. Personnel costs may also increase due to inflationary or competitive pressures on payroll and benefits costs and revised terms of collective bargaining agreements with union employees. These consequences could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE's ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions is subject to significant risks, including, but not limited to, the effect of increased competition for acquisitions resulting from the consolidation of the energy industry. NEE is likely to encounter significant competition for acquisition opportunities that may become available as a result of the consolidation of the energy industry. In addition, NEE may be unable to identify attractive acquisition opportunities at favorable prices and to complete and integrate them successfully and in a timely manner. Nuclear Generation Risks The operation and maintenance of NEE's and FPL's nuclear generation facilities involve environmental, health and financial risks that could result in fines or the closure of the facilities and in increased costs and capital expenditures. NEE's and FPL's nuclear generation facilities are subject to environmental, health and financial risks, including, but not limited to, those relating to site storage of spent nuclear fuel, the disposition of spent nuclear fuel, leakage and emissions of tritium and other radioactive elements in the event of a nuclear accident or otherwise, the threat of a terrorist attack or cyber incident and other potential liabilities arising out of the ownership or operation of the facilities. NEE and FPL maintain decommissioning funds and external insurance coverage which are intended to reduce the financial exposure to some of these risks; however, the cost of decommissioning nuclear generation facilities could exceed the amount available in NEE's and FPL's decommissioning funds, and the exposure to liability and property damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. If NEE or FPL is unable to recover the additional costs incurred through insurance or, in the case of FPL, through regulatory mechanisms, their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. In the event of an incident at any nuclear generation facility in the U.S. or at certain nuclear generation facilities in Europe, NEE and FPL could be assessed significant retrospective assessments and/or retrospective insurance premiums as a result of their participation in a secondary financial protection system and nuclear insurance mutual companies. Liability for accidents at nuclear power plants is governed by the Price-Anderson Act, which limits the liability of nuclear reactor owners to the amount of insurance available from both private sources and an industry retrospective payment plan. In accordance with this Act, NEE maintains the maximum amount of private liability insurance obtainable, and participates in a secondary financial protection system, which provides liability insurance coverage for an incident at any nuclear reactor in the U.S. Under the secondary financial protection system, NEE is subject to retrospective assessments and/or retrospective insurance premiums, plus any applicable taxes, for an incident at any nuclear reactor in the U.S. or at certain nuclear generation facilities in Europe, regardless of fault or proximity to the incident. Such assessments, if levied, could materially adversely affect NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NRC orders or new regulations related to increased security measures and any future safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could require NEE and FPL to incur substantial operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear generation facilities and/or result in reduced revenues. The NRC has broad authority to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation and maintenance of nuclear generation facilities, the addition of capacity at existing nuclear generation facilities and the construction of new nuclear generation facilities, and these requirements are subject to change. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines and/or shut down a nuclear generation facility, depending upon the NRC's assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Any of the foregoing events could require NEE and FPL to incur increased costs and capital expenditures, and could reduce revenues. Any serious nuclear incident occurring at a NEE or FPL plant could result in substantial remediation costs and other expenses. A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear generation facility. An incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world also could cause the NRC to impose additional conditions or other requirements on the industry, or on certain types of nuclear generation units, which could increase costs, reduce revenues and result in additional capital expenditures. 30 The inability to operate any of NEE's or FPL's nuclear generation units through the end of their respective operating licenses or planned license extensions could have a mater ial adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If any of NEE's or FPL's nuclear generation facilities are not operated for any reason through the life of their respective operating licenses or planned license extensions, NEE or FPL may be required to increase depreciation rates, incur impairment charges and accelerate future decommissioning expenditures, any of which could materially adversely affect their business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. NEE's and FPL's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate planned refueling and maintenance outages, and for other purposes. If planned outages last longer than anticipated or if there are unplanned outages, NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. NEE's and FPL's nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate planned refueling and maintenance outages, including, but not limited to, inspections, repairs and certain other modifications as well as to replace equipment. In the event that a scheduled outage lasts longer than anticipated or in the event of an unplanned outage due to, for example, equipment failure, such outages could materially adversely affect NEE's or FPL's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Liquidity, Capital Requirements and Common Stock Risks Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets, among other factors, may negatively affect NEE's and FPL's ability to fund their liquidity and capital needs and to meet their growth objectives, and can also materially adversely affect the business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects of NEE and FPL. NEE and FPL rely on access to capital and credit markets as significant sources of liquidity for capital requirements, refinancing activities to support existing debt maturities and other requirements that are not satisfied by operating cash flows. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in those capital and credit markets, related to, among others, inflation, rising or sustained higher interest rates and geopolitical events, could increase NEE's and FPL's cost of capital and affect their ability to fund their liquidity and capital needs, to refinance existing indebtedness and to meet their growth objectives. If NEE or FPL is unable to access regularly the capital and credit markets on terms that are reasonable, it may have to delay raising capital, issue shorter-term securities and incur an unfavorable cost of capital, which, in turn, could adversely affect its ability to maintain and grow its business, could contribute to lower earnings and reduced financial flexibility, and could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. Although NEE's competitive energy and certain other subsidiaries have used non-recourse or limited-recourse, project-specific or other financing in the past, market conditions, changes to regulatory capital requirements and other factors could adversely affect the future availability of such financing. The inability of NEE's subsidiaries, including, without limitation, NEECH and its subsidiaries, to access the capital and credit markets to provide project-specific or other financing for electric generation or other facilities or acquisitions on favorable terms, whether because of disruptions or volatility in those markets or otherwise, could necessitate additional capital raising or borrowings by NEE and/or NEECH in the future and there can be no assurance that NEE or NEECH will have the ability to complete such borrowings. The inability of subsidiaries that have existing project-specific or other financing arrangements to meet the requirements of various agreements relating to those financings, as well as actions by third parties or lenders, could give rise to a project-specific financing default which, if not cured or waived, might result in the specific project, and potentially in some limited instances its parent companies, being required to repay the associated debt or other borrowings earlier than otherwise anticipated, and if such repayment were not made, the lenders or security holders would generally have rights to foreclose against the project assets and related collateral. Such an occurrence also could result in NEE expending additional funds or incurring additional obligations over the shorter term to ensure continuing compliance with project-specific financing arrangements based upon the expectation of improvement in the project's performance or financial returns over the longer term. Any of these actions could materially adversely affect NEE's business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects, as well as the availability or terms of future financings for NEE or its subsidiaries. NEE's, NEECH's and FPL's inability to maintain their current credit ratings may materially adversely affect NEE's and FPL's liquidity and results of operations, limit the ability of NEE and FPL to grow their business, and increase interest costs. The inability of NEE, NEECH and FPL to maintain their current credit ratings could materially adversely affect their ability to raise capital or obtain credit on favorable terms, which, in turn, could impact NEE's and FPL's ability to grow their businesses and service indebtedness and refinance or repay borrowings, and would likely increase their interest costs. In addition, certain agreements and guarantee arrangements would require posting of additional collateral in the event of a ratings downgrade. Some of the factors that can affect credit ratings are cash flows, liquidity, the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization including rating agencies' treatment of certain indebtedness, NEE's overall business mix and political, legislative 31 and regulatory actions. There can be no assurance that one or more of the ratings of NEE, NEECH and FPL will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. NEE's and FPL's liquidity may be impaired if their credit providers are unable to fund their credit commitments to the companies or to maintain their current credit ratings. The inability of NEE's, NEECH's and FPL's credit providers to fund their credit commitments or to maintain their current credit ratings could require NEE, NEECH or FPL, among other things, to renegotiate requirements in agreements, find an alternative credit provider with acceptable credit ratings to meet funding requirements, or post cash collateral and could have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's liquidity. Poor market performance and other economic factors could affect NEE's defined benefit pension plan's funded status, which may materially adversely affect NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. NEE sponsors a qualified noncontributory defined benefit pension plan for substantially all employees of NEE and its subsidiaries. A decline in the market value of the assets held in the defined benefit pension plan due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase the funding requirements for this obligation. NEE's defined benefit pension plan is sensitive to changes in interest rates, since as interest rates decrease, the funding liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefits costs and funding requirements. Any increase in benefits costs or funding requirements may have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. Poor market performance and other economic factors could adversely affect the asset values of NEE's and FPL's nuclear decommissioning funds, which may materially adversely affect NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. NEE and FPL are required to maintain decommissioning funds to satisfy their future obligations to decommission their nuclear power plants. A decline in the market value of the assets held in the decommissioning funds due to poor investment performance or other factors may increase the funding requirements for these obligations. Any increase in funding requirements may have a material adverse effect on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. Certain of NEE's investments are subject to changes in market value and other risks, which may materially adversely affect NEE's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. NEE holds certain investments where changes in the fair value affect NEE's financial results. In some cases there may be no observable market values for these investments, requiring fair value estimates to be based on other valuation techniques. This type of analysis requires significant judgment and the actual values realized in a sale of these investments could differ materially from those estimated. A sale of an investment below previously estimated value, or other decline in the fair value of an investment, could result in losses or the write-off of such investment, and may have a material adverse effect on NEE's liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. NEE may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay funds to NEE. NEE is a holding company and, as such, has no material operations of its own. Substantially all of NEE's consolidated assets are held by its subsidiaries. NEE's ability to meet its financial obligations, including, but not limited to, its guarantees, and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on its subsidiaries' net income and cash flows, which are subject to the risks of their respective businesses, and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to NEE. NEE's subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no independent obligation to provide NEE with funds for its payment obligations. The subsidiaries have financial obligations, including, but not limited to, payment of debt service, which they must satisfy before they can provide NEE with funds. In addition, in the event of a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization, NEE's right to participate in a distribution of assets is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. The dividend-paying ability of some of the subsidiaries is limited by contractual restrictions which are contained in outstanding financing agreements and which may be included in future financing agreements. The future enactment of laws or regulations also may prohibit or restrict the ability of NEE's subsidiaries to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds. NEE may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if NEE is required to perform under guarantees of obligations of its subsidiaries. NEE guarantees many of the obligations of its consolidated subsidiaries, other than FPL, through guarantee agreements with NEECH. These guarantees may require NEE to provide substantial funds to its subsidiaries or their creditors or counterparties at 32 a time when NEE is in need of liquidity to meet its own financial obligations. Funding such guarantees may materially adversely affect NEE's ability to meet its financial obligations or to pay dividends. NEP may not be able to access sources of capital on commercially reasonable terms, which would have a material adverse effect on its ability to consummate future acquisitions and on the value of NEE’s limited partner interest in NEP OpCo. Through an indirect wholly owned subsidiary, NEE owns a limited partner interest in NEP OpCo. NEP's inability to access capital on commercially reasonable terms when acquisitions, other growth opportunities or capital needs arise could have a material adverse effect on NEP's ability to deliver its cash distributions to its common unitholders, including NEE, and on the value of NEE’s limited partnership interest in NEP OpCo. In addition, NEP's issuance of additional common units or other securities in connection with acquisitions or the conversion of outstanding securities convertible into NEP common units could cause significant common unitholder dilution and reduce cash distributions to its common unitholders, including NEE. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may exert downward pressure on the market price of NEE's common stock. The market price and trading volume of NEE's common stock are subject to fluctuations as a result of, among other factors, general credit and capital market conditions and changes in market sentiment regarding the operations, business and financing strategies of NEE, its subsidiaries and its affiliates, including NEP. As a result, disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets may, for example, have a material adverse effect on the market price of NEE's common stock. Widespread public health crises and epidemics or pandemics may have material adverse impacts on NEE’s and FPL's business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. NEE and FPL are subject to the impacts of widespread public health crises, epidemics and pandemics, including, but not limited to, impacts on the global, national or local economy, capital and credit markets, NEE's and FPL's workforce, customers and suppliers. There is no assurance that NEE's and FPL's businesses will be able to operate without material adverse impacts depending on the nature of the public health crisis, epidemic or pandemic. The ultimate severity, duration and impact of public health crises, epidemics and pandemics cannot be predicted. Additionally, there is no assurance that vaccines, or other treatments, are or will be widely available or effective, or that the public will be willing to participate, in an effort to contain the spread of disease. Actions taken in response to such crises by federal, state and local government or regulatory agencies may have a material adverse impact on NEE's and FPL's business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

OVERVIEW NEE’s operating performance is driven primarily by the operations of its two principal businesses, FPL, which serves approximately 5.9 million customer accounts in Florida and is one of the largest electric utilities in the U.S., and NEER, which together with affiliated entities is the world's largest generator of renewable energy from the wind and sun based on 2023 MWh produced on a net generation basis, as well as a world leader in battery storage . The table below presents net income (loss) attributable to NEE and earnings (loss) per s hare attributable to NEE, assuming dilution, by reportable segment, FPL and NEER. Corporate and Other is primarily comprised of the operating results of other business activities, as well as other income and expense items, including interest expense, and eliminating entries, and may include the net effect of rounding. See Note 16 for additional segment information. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein and all comparisons are with the corresponding items in the prior year. ______________________ (a)    NEER’s results reflect an allocation of interest expense from NEECH based on a deemed capital structure of 70% debt and differential membership interests sold by NextEra Energy Resources' subsidiaries. For the five years ended December 31, 2023, NEE delivered a total shareholder return of approximately 56.4%, compared to the S&P 500’s 107.2% return, the S&P 500 Utilities' 41.0% return and the Dow Jones U.S. Electricity's 39.6% return. The historical stock performance of NEE's common stock shown in the performance graph below is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. 36 Adjusted Earnings NEE prepares its financial statements under GAAP. However, management uses earnings adjusted for certain items (adjusted earnings), a non-GAAP financial measure, internally for financial planning, analysis of performance, reporting of results to the Board of Directors and as an input in determining performance-based compensation under NEE’s employee incentive compensation plans. NEE also uses adjusted earnings when communicating its financial results and earnings outlook to analysts and investors. NEE ’s management believes that adjusted earnings provide a more meaningful representation of NEE's fundamental earnings power. Although these amounts are properly reflected in the determination of net income under GAAP, management believes that the amount and/or nature of such items make period to period comparisons of operations difficult and potentially confusing. Adjusted earnings do not represent a substitute for net income, as prepared under GAAP. The following table provides details of the after-tax adjustments to net income considered in computing NEE's adjusted earnings discussed above. ______________________ (a) For 2023, 2022 and 2021, approximately $1,729 million of gains, $1,257 million of losses and $1,735 million of losses, respectively, are included in NEER's net income; the balance is included in Corporate and Other. The change in non-qualifying hedge activity is primarily attributable to changes in forward power and natural gas prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, as well as the reversal of previously recognized unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses as the underlying transactions were realized. (b) See Note 4 – Nonrecurring Fair Value Measurements for a discussion of an impairment charge related to the investment in NEP in 2023. (c) Approximately $300 million of gains are included in FPL's net income; the balance is included in NEER. See Note 1 – Disposal of Businesses/Assets and Sale of Noncontrolling Ownership Interests for a discussion of the sale of FPL's ownership interest in its Florida City Gas business (FCG). (d) See Note 4 – Nonrecurring Fair Value Measurements for a discussion of the impairment charge in 2022 related to the investment in Mountain Valley Pipeline, LLC (Mountain Valley Pipeline). NEE segregates into two categories unrealized mark-to-market gains and losses and timing impacts related to derivative transactions. The first category, referred to as non-qualifying hedges, represents certain energy derivative, interest rate derivative and foreign currency transactions entered into as economic hedges, which do not meet the requirements for hedge accounting, or for which hedge accounting treatment is not elected or has been discontinued. Changes in the fair value of those transactions are marked to market and reported in the consolidated statements of income, resulting in earnings volatility because the economic offset to certain of the positions are generally not marked to market. As a consequence, NEE's net income reflects only the movement in one part of economically-linked transactions. For example, a gain (loss) in the non-qualifying hedge category for certain energy derivatives is offset by decreases (increases) in the fair value of related physical asset positions in the portfolio or contracts, which are not marked to market under GAAP. For this reason, NEE's management views results expressed excluding the impact of the non-qualifying hedges as a meaningful measure of current period performance. The second category, referred to as trading activities, which is included in adjusted earnings, represents the net unrealized effect of actively traded positions entered into to take advantage of expected market price movements and all other commodity hedging activities. At FPL, substantially all changes in the fair value of energy derivative transactions are deferred as a regulatory asset or liability until the contracts are settled, and, upon settlement, any gains or losses are passed through the fuel clause. See Note 3. 2023 Summary Net income attributable to NEE for 2023 was higher than 2022 by $3,163 million, or $1.50 per share, assuming dilution, due to higher results at NEER and FPL, partly offset by lower results at Corporate and Other. FPL's net income increased by $851 million in 2023 primarily driven by continued investments in plant in service and other property and the gain on sale of FPL's ownership interest in the FCG business. NEER's results increased in 2023 primarily driven by favorable non-qualifying hedge activity compared to 2022, higher earnings from new investments, lower impairment charges related to its investment in Mountain Valley Pipeline, partly offset by the OTTI impairment related to the investment in NEP. In 2023, NEER added approximately 1,651 MW of new wind generating capacity and 2,073 MW of solar generating capacity and increased its backlog of contracted renewable development projects. Corporate and Other's results in 2023 decreased primarily due to unfavorable non-qualifying hedge activity. 37 NEE and its subsidiaries require funds to support and grow their businesses. These funds are primarily provided by cash flows from operations, borrowings or issuances of short- and long-term debt and, from time to time, issuances of equity securities, proceeds from differential membership investors, the sale of tax credits and sales of assets to NEP or third parties. See Liquidity and Capital Resources. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Net income attributable to NEE for 2023 was $7.31 billion compared to $4.15 billion in 2022. In 2023, net income attributable to NEE increased primarily due to higher results at NEER and FPL, partly offset by lower results at Corporate and Other. The comparison of the results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 are included in Management's Discussion in NEE's and FPL's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 . In September 2022, subsidiaries of NextEra Energy Resources sold to a NEP subsidiary a 67% controlling ownership interest in a battery storage facility with storage capacity of 230 MW. In December 2022, subsidiaries of NextEra Energy Resources sold (i) a 49% controlling ownership interest in three wind generation facilities and one solar plus battery facility with a total generating capacity of 1,437 MW and 65 MW of battery storage capacity, two of which facilities were under construction and achieved commercial operations in 2023, and (ii) their 100% ownership interest in three wind generation facilities with a total generating capacity of 347 MW to a NEP subsidiary. See Note 1 – Disposal of Businesses/Assets and Sale of Noncontrolling Ownership Interests. In March 2023, a wholly owned subsidiary of NextEra Energy Resources acquired a portfolio of renewable energy projects as well as the related service provider. See Note 6 – RNG Acquisition. In June 2023, subsidiaries of NextEra Energy Resources sold to a NEP subsidiary their 100% ownership interests in five wind generation facilities and three solar generation facilities with a total generating capacity of 688 MW. In November 2023, FPL sold its ownership interests in FCG. See Note 1 – Disposal of Businesses/Assets and Sale of Noncontrolling Ownership Interests. NEE's effective income tax rate for 2023 and 2022 was approximately 14% and 15%, respectively. The rates for both years reflect the impact of renewable energy tax credits. See Note 5. In August 2022, the IRA was enacted which significantly expanded tax incentives for clean energy (see Item 1. Business – NEER – Clean Energy and Other Operations – Clean Energy – Policy Incentives for Renewable Energy Projects). FPL: Results of Operations FPL obtains its operating revenues primarily from the sale of electricity to retail customers at rates established by the FPSC through b ase rates and cost recovery clause mechanisms. FPL’s net income for 2023 and 2022 was $4,552 million and $3,701 million, respectively, representing an increase of $851 million. The increase was primarily driven by higher earnings from investments in plant in service and other property and the gain on sale of FPL's ownership interest in the FCG business. Such investments grew FPL's average rate base by approximately $6.9 billion in 2023 and reflect, among other things, solar generation additions, ongoing transmission and distribution additions, and the addition of the 1,246 MW Dania Beach Clean Energy Center which was placed in service on May 31, 2022. During 2023, the FPSC approved FPL's request to begin recovering eligible storm costs of approximately $1.3 billion, primarily related to surcharges for Hurricanes Ian and Nicole which impacted FPL's service area in 2022. FPL implemented an interim storm restoration charge in April 2023 for eligible storm restoration costs. See Note 1 – Storm Funds, Storm Reserves and Storm Cost Recovery. The use of reserve amortization is permitted by the 2021 rate agreement. See Item 1. Business – FPL – FPL Regulation – FPL Electric Rate Regulation – Base Rates – Base Rates Effective January 2022 through December 2025 for additional information on the 2021 rate agreement. In order to earn a targeted regulatory ROE, subject to limitations associated with the 2021 rate agreement, reserve amortization is calculated using a trailing thirteen-month average of retail rate base and capital structure in conjunction with the trailing twelve months regulatory retail base net operating income, which primarily includes the retail base portion of base and other revenues, net of O&M, depreciation and amortization, interest and tax expenses. In general, the net impact of these income statement line items must be adjusted, in part, by reserve amortization to earn the targeted regulatory ROE. In certain periods, reserve amortization is reversed so as not to exceed the targeted regulatory ROE. The drivers of FPL's net income not reflected in the reserve amortization calculation typically include wholesale and transmission service revenues and expenses, cost recovery clause revenues and expenses, AFUDC – equity and revenue and costs not recoverable from retail customers. FPL recorded reserve amortization of approximately $227 million in 2023 and a one-time reserve amortization adjustment of $114 million in 2022. See Depreciation and Amortization Expense below. FPL's regulatory ROE for 2023 and 2022 was approximately 11.80% and 11.74%, respectively. On September 28, 2023, the Florida Supreme Court ruled on the appeal of the FPSC’s final order regarding FPL’s 2021 rate agreement and remanded the FPSC's order back to the FPSC. See Note 1 – Base Rates Effective January 2022 through December 2025. 38 During 2023, operating revenues increased $1,083 million primarily related to an increase in storm cost recovery revenues as discussed in Cost Recovery Clauses below. Retail Base FPL’s retail base revenues for 2023 and 2022 reflect the 2021 rate agreement. Retail base revenues increased approximately $618 million during the year ended December 31, 2023 primarily related to new retail base rates under the 2021 rate agreement. Retail revenues were also impacted by an increase of approximately 1.2% in the average number of customer accounts, partly offset by a decrease of 0.6% in the average usage per retail customer. See Note 1 – Rate Regulation. Cost Recovery Clauses Revenues from fuel and other cost recovery clauses and pass-through costs, such as franchise fees, revenue taxes and storm-related surcharges, are largely a pass-through of costs. Such revenues also include a return on investment allowed to be recovered through the cost recovery clauses on certain assets, primarily related to certain solar, environmental projects, storm protection plan investments and the unamortized balance of the regulatory asset associated with FPL's acquisition of certain generation facilities. See Item 1. Business – FPL – FPL Regulation – FPL Electric Rate Regulation – Cost Recovery Clauses. Under-recovery or over-recovery of cost recovery clause and other pass-through costs (deferred clause and franchise expenses and revenues) can significantly affect NEE's and FPL's operating cash flows. The 2023 net decrease in under-recovery of cost recovery clauses impacting FPL's operating cash flows was approximately $1,104 million, primarily related to lower fuel prices and recovery of fuel cost incurred in 2022, but recovered in rates in 2023. The increase in operating revenues in 2023 reflects higher storm cost recovery revenues of approximately $1,117 million primarily associated with Hurricanes Ian and Nicole, as discussed above. The increase in operating revenues in 2023 were partly offset by decreases in fuel cost recovery revenues of approximately $714 million primarily as a result of lower fuel and energy prices. In 2023 and 2022, cost recovery clauses contributed approximately $369 million and $261 million, respectively, to FPL’s net income. Other Items Impacting FPL's Consolidated Statements of Income Fuel, Purchase Power and Interchange Expense Fuel, purchased power and interchange expense decreased $927 million in 2023 primarily related to lower fuel and energy prices. Depreciation and Amortization Expense The major components of FPL’s depreciation and amortization expense are as follows: Depreciation expense increased $1,094 million during 2023 primarily reflecting amortization of deferred storm costs expenses primarily associated with Hurricanes Ian and Nicole as discussed above, of approximately $1,114 million, partly offset by the impact of reserve amortization. In 2022, FPL recorded a one-time reserve amortization adjustment of approximately $114 million as required under the 2021 rate agreement, 50% of which was used to reduce the capital recovery regulatory asset balance and the other 50% to increase the storm reserve regulatory liability. Reserve amortization, or reversal of such amortization, reflects adjustments to accrued asset removal costs provided under the 2021 rate agreement in order to achieve the targeted regulatory ROE. Reserve amortization is recorded as either an increase or decrease to accrued asset removal costs which is reflected in noncurrent regulatory assets on NEE's and FPL's consolidated balance sheets. At December 31, 2023, approximately $1,223 million of reserve amortization remains available under the 2021 rate agreement. Gains on Disposal of Businesses/Assets – net In 2023, gains on disposal of businesses/assets – net primarily relate to the sale of ownership interests in the FCG business. See Note 1 – Disposal of Businesses/Assets and Sale of Noncontrolling Ownership Interests. Interest Expense Interest expense increased $346 million primarily due to higher average interest rates and higher average debt balances. 39 NEER: Results of Operations NEER owns, develops, constructs, manages and operates electric generation facilities in wholesale energy markets in the U.S. and Canada and also includes assets and investments in other businesses with a clean energy focus, such as battery storage and renewable fuels. NEER also provides full energy and capacity requirements services, engages in power and fuel marketing and trading activities, owns, develops, constructs and operates rate-regulated transmission facilities and transmission lines and invests in natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil production and pipeline infrastructure assets. NEER’s net income less net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests for 2023 and 2022 was $3,558 million and $285 million, respectively, resulting in an increase in 2023 of $3,273 million. The primary drivers, on an after-tax basis, of the change are in the following table. ______________________ (a)    Reflects after-tax project contributions, including the net effect of deferred income taxes and other benefits associated with renewable energy tax credits for wind, solar and storage projects, as applicable (see Note 1 – Income Taxes and – Noncontrolling Interests and Note 5), but excludes allocation of interest expense and corporate general and administrative expenses except for an allocated credit support charge related to guarantees issued to conduct business activities. Results from projects, pipelines and rate-regulated transmission facilities and transmission lines are included in new investments during the first twelve months of operation or ownership. Project results, including repowered wind projects, are included in existing clean energy, pipeline results are included in gas infrastructure and rate-regulated transmission facilities and transmission lines are included in NEET beginning with the thirteenth month of operation or ownership. (b)    Excludes allocation of interest expense and corporate general and administrative expenses except for an allocated credit support charge related to guarantees issued to conduct business activities. (c)    See Overview – Adjusted Earnings for additional information. (d)    See Note 4 – Nonrecurring Fair Value Measurements for a discussion of the first quarter 2022 impairment charge related to the investment in Mountain Valley Pipeline. New Investments Results from new investments in 2023 increased primarily due to higher earnings related to new wind and solar generation and battery storage facilities that entered service during or after 2022. Other Factors Supplemental to the primary drivers of the changes in NEER's results discussed above, the discussion below describes changes in certain line items set forth in NEE's consolidated statements of income as they relate to NEER. Operating Revenues Operating revenues for 2023 increased $5,952 million primarily due to: • the impact of non-qualifying commodity hedges due primarily to changes in energy prices (approximately $2,529 million of gains during 2023 compared to $2,670 million of losses for 2022), • net increases in revenues of $647 million from the customer supply and gas infrastructure businesses, • revenues from new investments of $390 million, and • higher revenues from NEET of $84 million, partly offset by, • lower revenues from existing clean energy assets of $371 million primarily due to lower wind revenues primarily reflecting lower wind resource. Operating Expenses – net Operating expenses – net for 2023 increased $566 million primarily due to increases of $342 million in O&M expenses and $287 million in depreciation and amortization expenses, partly offset by decreases of $41 million in fuel, purchased power and interchange expenses. The increases were primarily associated with growth across the NEER businesses. Gains on Disposal of Businesses/Assets – net In 2022, gains on disposal of businesses/assets – net primarily relate to the sale of ownership interests in wind, solar and battery 40 storage projects to NEP and the resolution of a contingency related to the December 2021 sale of ownership interests in wind and solar projects. See Note 1 – Disposal of Businesses/Assets and Sale of Noncontrolling Ownership Interests. Interest Expense NEER's interest expense for 2023 increased $1,001 million primarily reflecting approximately $617 million of unfavorable impacts related to changes in the fair value of interest rate derivative instruments as well as higher interest expense primarily due to higher average interest rates and higher average debt balances. Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Equity Method Investees NEER recognized $649 million of equity in losses of equity method investees in 2023 compared to $202 million of equity in earnings of equity method investees for the prior year. The decrease in 2023 primarily reflects an impairment charge of approximately $1.2 billion ($0.9 billion after tax) related to the investment in NEP and a decrease in equity in earnings (losses) of NEP recorded in 2023 primarily due to unfavorable impacts related to changes in the fair value of interest rate derivative instruments, partly offset by the absence of impairment charges of approximately $0.8 billion ($0.6 billion after tax) related to the investment in Mountain Valley Pipeline recorded in the first quarter of 2022 (see Note 4 – Nonrecurring Fair Value Measurements). Change in Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Equity Securities Held in NEER's Nuclear Decommissioning Funds – net In 2023, the changes in the fair value of equity securities in NEER's nuclear decommissioning funds related to favorable market conditions in 2023 compared to unfavorable market conditions in the prior year. Income Taxes NEER's effective income tax rate for 2023 and 2022 was approximately 7% and 39%, respectively, and is primarily based on the composition of pretax income in 2023 and pretax loss in 2022 as well as the impact of renewable energy tax credits. PTCs from wind and solar projects and ITCs from solar, battery storage and certain wind projects are included in NEER’s earnings. PTCs are recognized as wind and solar energy is generated and sold based on a per kWh rate prescribed in applicable federal and state statutes. See Note 1 – Income Taxes for a discussion of renewable energy tax credits, Note 5 and Note 16. Corporate and Other: Results of Operations Corporate and Other is primarily comprised of the operating res ults of other business activities, as well as corporate interest income and expenses. Corporate and Other allocates a portion of NEECH's corporate interest expense to NextEra Energy Resources. Interest expense is allocated based on a deemed capital structure of 70% debt and differential membership interests sold by NextEra Energy Resources' subsidiaries. Corporate and Other's results decreased $961 million during 2023 primarily due to unfavorable after-tax impacts of approximately $793 million, as compared to the prior year, related to non-qualifying hedge activity as a result of changes in the fair value of interest rate derivative instruments as well as higher average interest rates and higher average debt balances. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES NEE and its subsidiaries require funds to support and grow their businesses. These funds are used for, among other things, working capital (see Note 1 – Storm Funds, Storm Reserves and Storm Cost Recovery ), capital expenditures (see Note 15 – Commitments), investments in or acquisitions of assets and businesses (see Note 6), payment of maturing debt and related derivative obligations (see Note 13 and Note 3) and, from time to time, redemption or repurchase of outstanding debt or equity securities. It is anticipated that these requirements will be satisfied through a combination of cash flows from operations, short- and long-term borrowings, the issuance of short- and long-term debt (see Note 13) and, from time to time, equity securities, proceeds from differential membership investors, the sale of renewable energy tax credits (see Note 1 - Income Taxes) and sales of assets to NEP or third parties (see Note 1 – Disposal of Businesses/Assets and Sale of Noncontrolling Ownership Interests) , consistent with NEE’s and FPL’s objective of maintaining, on a long-term basis, a capital structure that will support a strong investment grade credit rating. NEE, FPL and NEECH rely on access to credit and capital markets as significant sources of liquidity for capital requirements and other operations that are not satisfied by operating cash flows. The inability of NEE, FPL and NEECH to maintain their current credit ratings could affect their ability to raise short- and long-term capital, their cost of capital and the execution of their respective financing strategies, and could require the posting of additional collateral under certain agreements. In October 2015, NEE authorized a program to purchase, from time to time, up to $150 million of common units representing limited partner interests in NEP. Under the program, purchases may be made in amounts, at prices and at such times as NEE or its subsidiaries deem appropriate, all subject to market conditions and other considerations. The purchases may be made in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. Any purchases will be made in such quantities, at such prices, in such manner and on such terms and conditions as determined by NEE or its subsidiaries in their discretion, based on factors such as market and business conditions, applicable legal requirements and other factors. The common unit purchase program does not require NEE to acquire any specific number of common units and may be modified or terminated by NEE at any time. The purpose of the program is not to cause NEP’s common units to be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange or to cause the common units to be deregistered with the SEC. As of December 31, 2023, the dollar value of units that may yet be purchased by NEE under this program was $114 million. At December 31, 2023, NEE owned a noncontrolling general partner interest in NEP and beneficially owned approximately 52.6% of NEP’s voting power. 41 Cash Flows NEE's sources and uses of cash for 2023, 2022 and 2021 were as follows: For significant financing activity that occurred subsequent to December 31, 2023, see Note 13. NEE's primary capital requirements are for expanding and enhancing FPL's electric system and generation facilities to continue to provide reliable service to meet customer electricity demands and for funding NEER's investments in independent power and other projects. See Note 15 – Commitments for estimated capital expenditures in 2024 through 2028. The following table provides a summary of capital investments for 2023 , 2022 and 2021 . 42 Liquidity At December 31, 2023, NEE's total net available liquidity was approximately $12.2 billion. The table below provides the components of FPL's and NEECH's net available liquidity at December 31, 2023. ______________________ ( a)    Provide for the funding of loans up to the amount of the credit facility and the issuance of letters of credit up to $3,200 million ($450 million for FPL and $2,750 million for NEECH). The entire amount of the credit facilities is available for general corporate purposes and to provide additional liquidity in the event of a loss to the companies’ or their subsidiaries’ operating facilities (including, in the case of FPL, a transmission and distribution property loss). FPL’s syndicated revolving credit facilities are also available to support the purchase of $1,319 million of pollution control, solid waste disposal and industrial development revenue bonds in the event they are tendered by individual bondholders and not remarketed prior to maturity as well as the repayment of approximately $1,812 million of floating rate notes in the event an individual noteholder requires repayment at specified dates prior to maturity. As of December 31, 2023, approximately $3,311 million of NEECH's syndicated revolving credit facilities expire over the next 12 months. (b)    Only available for the funding of loans. As of December 31, 2023, approximately $205 million of FPL's and $650 million of NEECH's bilateral revolving credit facilities expire over the next 12 months. See Note 13 regarding increases in capacity and borrowings subsequent to December 31, 2023. (c)    Only available for the issuance of letters of credit. As of December 31, 2023, approximately $500 million of the letter of credit facilities expire over the next 12 months. Approximately 71 banks, located globally, participate in FPL’s and NEECH’s revolving credit facilities, with no one bank providing more than 5% of the combined revolving credit facilities. Pursuant to a 1998 guarantee agreement, NEE guarantees the payment of NEECH’s debt obligations under its revolving credit facilities. In order for FPL or NEECH to borrow or to have letters of credit issued under the terms of their respective revolving credit facilities and, also for NEECH, its letter of credit facilities, FPL, in the case of FPL, and NEE, in the case of NEECH, are required, among other things, to maintain a ratio of funded debt to total capitalization that does not exceed a stated ratio. The FPL and NEECH revolving credit facilities also contain default and related acceleration provisions relating to, among other things, failure of FPL and NEE, as the case may be, to maintain the respective ratio of funded debt to total capitalization at or below the specified ratio. At December 31, 2023, each of NEE and FPL was in compliance with its required ratio. Capital Support Guarantees, Letters of Credit, Surety Bonds and Indemnifications (Guarantee Arrangements) Certain subsidiaries of NEE issue guarantees and obtain letters of credit and surety bonds, as well as provide indemnities, to facilitate commercial transactions with third parties and financings. Substantially all of the guarantee arrangements are on behalf of NEE’s consolidated subsidiaries, as discussed in more detail below. See Note 8 regarding guarantees of obligations on behalf of NEP subsidiaries. NEE is not required to recognize liabilities associated with guarantee arrangements issued on behalf of its consolidated subsidiaries unless it becomes probable that they will be required to perform. At December 31, 2023, NEE believes that there is no material exposure related to these guarantee arrangements. NEE subsidiaries issue guarantees related to equity contribution agreements and engineering, procurement and construction agreements, associated with the development, construction and financing of certain power generation facilities (see Note 1 - Structured Payables) and a natural gas pipeline project under construction, as well as a related natural gas transportation agreement. Commitments associated with these activities are included and/or disclosed in the contracts table in Note 15. In addition, at December 31, 2023, NEE subsidiaries had approximately $6.1 billion in guarantees related to obligations under PPAs and acquisition agreements, nuclear-related activities, payment obligations related to PTCs, support for NEER's retail electricity provider activities, as well as other types of contractual obligations (see Note 15 – Commitments). 43 In some instances, subsidiaries of NEE elect to issue guarantees instead of posting other forms of collateral required under certain financing arrangements, as well as for other project-level cash management activities. At December 31, 2023, these guarantees totaled approximately $1.2 billion and support, among other things, cash management activities, including those related to debt service and operations and maintenance service agreements, as well as other specific project financing requirements. Subsidiaries of NEE also issue guarantees to support customer supply and proprietary power and gas trading activities, including the buying and selling of wholesale energy commodities. At December 31, 2023, the estimated mark-to-market exposure (the total amount that these subsidiaries of NEE could be required to fund based on energy commodity market prices at December 31, 2023) plus contract settlement net payables, net of collateral posted for obligations under these guarantees totaled approximately $1.8 billion. At December 31, 2023, subsidiaries of NEE also had approximately $5.1 billion of standby letters of credit and approximately $1.6 billion of surety bonds to support certain of the commercial activities discussed above. FPL's and NEECH's credit facilities are available to support substantially all of the standby letters of credit. In addition, as part of contract negotiations in the normal course of business, certain subsidiaries of NEE have agreed and in the future may agree to make payments to compensate or indemnify other parties, including those associated with asset divestitures, for possible unfavorable financial consequences resulting from specified events. The specified events may include, but are not limited to, an adverse judgment in a lawsuit, or the imposition of additional taxes due to a change in tax law or interpretations of the tax law. NEE is unable to estimate the maximum potential amount of future payments by its subsidiaries under some of these contracts because events that would obligate them to make payments have not occurred or, if any such event has occurred, they have not been notified of its occurrence. NEECH, a 100% owned subsidiary of NEE, provides funding for, and holds ownership interests in, NEE's operating subsidiaries other than FPL. NEE has fully and unconditionally guaranteed certain payment obligations of NEECH, including most of its debt and all of its debentures registered pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933 and commercial paper issuances, as well as most of its payment guarantees and indemnifications, and NEECH has guaranteed certain debt and other obligations of subsidiaries within the NEER segment. Certain guarantee arrangements described above contain requirements for NEECH and FPL to maintain a specified credit rating. For a discussion of credit rating downgrade triggers, see Credit Ratings below. NEE fully and unconditionally guarantees NEECH debentures pursuant to a guarantee agreement, dated as of June 1, 1999 (1999 guarantee) and NEECH junior subordinated debentures pursuant to an indenture, dated as of September 1, 2006 (2006 guarantee). The 1999 guarantee is an unsecured obligation of NEE and ranks equally and ratably with all other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of NEE. The 2006 guarantee is unsecured and subordinate and junior in right of payment to NEE senior indebtedness (as defined therein). No payment on those junior subordinated debentures may be made under the 2006 guarantee until all NEE senior indebtedness has been paid in full in certain circumstances. NEE’s and NEECH’s ability to meet their financial obligations are primarily dependent on their subsidiaries’ net income, cash flows and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to NEE and NEECH. The dividend-paying ability of some of the subsidiaries is limited by contractual restrictions which are contained in outstanding financing agreements. 44 Summarized financial information of NEE and NEECH is as follows: ______________________ (a)    Excludes intercompany transactions, and investments in, and equity in earnings of, subsidiaries. (b)    Information has been prepared on the same basis of accounting as NEE's consolidated financial statements. Shelf Registration In March 2021, NEE, NEECH and FPL filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC for an unspecified amount of securities, which became effective upon filing. The amount of securities issuable by the companies is established from time to time by their respective boards of directors. Securities that may be issued under the registration statement include, depending on the registrant, senior debt securities, subordinated debt securities, junior subordinated debentures, first mortgage bonds, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares, stock purchase contracts, stock purchase units, warrants and guarantees related to certain of those securities. 45 Credit Ratings NEE’s liquidity, ability to access credit and capital markets, cost of borrowings and collateral posting requirements under certain agreements is dependent on its and its subsidiaries credit ratings. At February 16, 2024, Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (Moody’s), S&P Global Ratings (S&P) and Fitch Ratings, Inc. (Fitch) had assigned the following credit ratings to NEE, FPL and NEECH: _________________________ (a)    A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization. (b)    The outlook indicated by each of Moody's, S&P and Fitch is stable. (c)    Short-term ratings are presented as all bonds outstanding are currently paying a short-term interest rate. At FPL's election, a portion or all of the bonds may be adjusted to a long-term interest rate. NEE and its subsidiaries have no credit rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity dates of outstanding debt. A change in ratings is not an event of default under applicable debt instruments, and while there are conditions to drawing on the credit facilities noted above, the maintenance of a specific minimum credit rating is not a condition to drawing on these credit facilities. Commitment fees and interest rates on loans under these credit facilities’ agreements are tied to credit ratings. A ratings downgrade also could reduce the accessibility and increase the cost of commercial paper and other short-term debt issuances and borrowings and additional or replacement credit facilities. In addition, a ratings downgrade could result in, among other things, the requirement that NEE subsidiaries post collateral under certain agreements and guarantee arrangements, including, but not limited to, those related to fuel procurement, power sales and purchases, nuclear decommissioning funding, debt-related reserves and trading activities. FPL’s and NEECH’s credit facilities are available to support these potential requirements. Covenants NEE's charter does not limit the dividends that may be paid on its common stock. As a practical matter, the ability of NEE to pay dividends on its common stock is dependent upon, among other things, dividends paid to it by its subsidiaries. For example, FPL pays dividends to NEE in a manner consistent with FPL's long-term targeted capital structure. However, the mortgage securing FPL's first mortgage bonds contains provisions which, under certain conditions, restrict the payment of dividends to NEE and the issuance of additional first mortgage bonds. Additionally, in some circumstances, the mortgage restricts the amount of retained earnings that FPL can use to pay cash dividends on its common stock. The restricted amount may change based on factors set out in the mortgage. Other than this restriction on the payment of common stock dividends, the mortgage does not restrict FPL's use of retained earnings. At December 31, 2023, no retained earnings were restricted by these provisions of the mortgage and, in light of FPL's current financial condition and level of earnings, management does not expect that planned financing activities or dividends would be affected by these limitations. FPL may issue first mortgage bonds under its mortgage subject to its meeting an adjusted net earnings test set forth in the mortgage, wh ich generally requires adjusted net earnings to be at least twice the annual interest requirements on, or at least 10% of the aggregate principal amount of, FPL’s first mortgage bonds including those to be issued and all indebtedness of FPL that ranks prior or equal to the first mortgage bonds. At December 31, 2023, coverage for the 12 months ended December 31, 2023 would have been approximately 9.6 times the annual interest requirements and approximately 4.1 times the aggregate principal requirements. New first mortgage bonds are also limited to an amount equal to the sum of 60% of unfunded property additions after adjustments to offset property retirements, the amount of retired first mortgage bonds or qualified lien bonds and the amount of cash on deposit with the mortgage trustee. At December 31, 2023, FPL could have issued in excess of $34 billion of additional first mortgage bonds based on the unfunded property additions and retired first mortgage bonds. At December 31, 2023, no cash was deposited with the mortgage trustee for these purposes. 46 In September 2006, NEE and NEECH executed a Replacement Capital Covenant (as amended, September 2006 RCC) in connection with NEECH's offering of $350 million principal amount of Series B Enhanced Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2066 (Series B junior subordinated debentures). The September 2006 RCC is for the benefit of persons that buy, hold or sell a specified series of long-term indebtedness (covered debt) of NEECH (other than the Series B junior subordinated debentures) or, in certain cases, of NEE. NEECH's 3.50% Debentures, Series due April 1, 2029 have been designated as the covered debt under the September 2006 RCC. The September 2006 RCC provides that NEECH may redeem, and NEE or NEECH may purchase, any Series B junior subordinated debentures on or before October 1, 2036, only to the extent that the redemption or purchase price does not exceed a specified amount of proceeds from the sale of qualifying securities, subject to certain limitations described in the September 2006 RCC. Qualifying securities are securities that have equity-like characteristics that are the same as, or more equity-like than, the Series B junior subordinated debentures at the time of redemption or purchase, which are sold within 365 days prior to the date of the redemption or repurchase of the Series B junior subordinated debentures. In June 2007, NEE and NEECH executed a Replacement Capital Covenant (as amended, June 2007 RCC) in connection with NEECH's offering of $400 million principal amount of its Series C Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2067 (Series C junior subordinated debentures). The June 2007 RCC is for the benefit of persons that buy, hold or sell a specified series of covered debt of NEECH (other than the Series C junior subordinated debentures) or, in certain cases, of NEE. NEECH's 3.50% Debentures, Series due April 1, 2029 have been designated as the covered debt under the June 2007 RCC. The June 2007 RCC provides that NEECH may redeem or purchase, or satisfy, discharge or defease (collectively, defease), and NEE and any majority-owned subsidiary of NEE or NEECH may purchase, any Series C junior subordinated debentures on or before June 15, 2037, only to the extent that the principal amount defeased or the applicable redemption or purchase price does not exceed a specified amount raised from the issuance, during the 365 days prior to the date of that redemption, purchase or defeasance, of qualifying securities that have equity-like characteristics that are the same as, or more equity-like than, the applicable characteristics of the Series C junior subordinated debentures at the time of redemption, purchase or defeasance, subject to certain limitations described in the June 2007 RCC. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES NEE’s significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, which were prepared under GAAP. Critical accounting policies are those that NEE believes are both most important to the portrayal of its financial condition and results of operations, and require complex, subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates and assumptions about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of those policies may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. NEE considers the following policies to be the most critical in understanding the judgments that are involved in preparing its consolidated financial statements: Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities NEE uses derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options, futures and forwards) to manage the physical and financial risks inherent in the purchase and sale of fuel and electricity, as well as interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate risk associated primarily with outstanding and expected future debt issuances and borrowings. In addition, NEE, through NEER, uses derivatives to optimize the value of its power generation and gas infrastructure assets and engages in power and fuel marketing and trading activities to take advantage of expected future favorable price movements. Nature of Accounting Estimates Accounting pronouncements require the use of fair value accounting if certain conditions are met, which may require significant judgment to measure the fair value of assets and liabilities. This applies not only to traditional financial derivative instruments, but to any contract having the accounting characteristics of a derivative. As a result, significant judgment must be used in applying derivatives accounting guidance to contracts. In the event changes in interpretation occur, it is possible that contracts that currently are excluded from derivatives accounting rules would have to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value, with changes in the fair value recorded in the statement of income. Assumptions and Accounting Approach Derivative instruments, when required to be marked to market, are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value using a combination of market and income approaches. Fair values for some of the longer-term contracts where liquid markets are not available are derived through the use of industry-standard valuation techniques, such as internally developed models which estimate the fair value of a contract by calculating the present value of the difference between the contract price and the forward prices. Forward prices represent the price at which a buyer or seller could contract today to purchase or sell a commodity at a future date. The near-term forward market for electricity is generally liquid and therefore the prices in the early years of the forward curves reflect observable market quotes. However, in the later years, the market is much less liquid and forward price curves must be developed using factors including the forward prices for the commodities used as fuel to generate electricity, the expected system heat rate (which measures the efficiency of power plants in converting fuel to electricity) in the region where the 47 purchase or sale takes place, and a fundamental forecast of expected spot prices based on modeled supply and demand in the region. NEE estimates the fair value of interest rate and foreign currency derivatives using an income approach based on a discounted cash flows valuation technique utilizing the net amount of estimated future cash inflows and outflows related to the derivative agreements. The assumptions in these models are critical since any changes therein could have a significant impact on the fair value of the derivative. At FPL, substantially all changes in the fair value of energy derivative transactions are deferred as a regulatory asset or liability until the contracts are settled, and, upon settlement, any gains or losses are passed through the fuel clause . See Note 3. In NEE’s non-rate regulated operations, predominantly NextEra Energy Resources, essentially all changes in the derivatives’ fair value for power purchases and sales, fuel sales and trading activities are recognized on a net basis in operating revenues and the equity method investees’ related activity is recognized in equity in earnings (losses) of equity method investees in NEE’s consolidated statements of income. For interest rate and foreign currency derivative instruments, all changes in the derivatives' fair value are recognized in interest expense and the equity method investees' related activity is recognized in equity in earnings (losses) of equity method investees in NEE's consolidated statements of income. NEE estimates the fair value of these derivatives using an income approach based on a discounted cash flows valuation technique utilizing observable inputs. Certain derivative transactions at NEER are entered into as economic hedges but the transactions do not meet the requirements for hedge accounting, hedge accounting treatment is not elected or hedge accounting has been discontinued. Changes in the fair value of those transactions are marked to market and reported in the consolidated statements of income, resulting in earnings volatility. These changes in fair value are reflected in the non-qualifying hedge category in computing adjusted earnings and could be significant to NEER’s results because the economic offset to the positions are not marked to market. As a consequence, NEE's net income reflects only the movement in one part of economically-linked transactions. For example, a gain (loss) in the non-qualifying hedge category for certain energy derivatives is offset by decreases (increases) in the fair value of related physical asset positions in the portfolio or contracts, which are not marked to market under GAAP. For this reason, NEE’s management views results expressed excluding the unrealized mark-to-market impact of the non-qualifying hedges as a meaningful measure of current period performance. For additional information regarding derivative instruments, see Note 3, Overview and Energy Marketing and Trading and Market Risk Sensitivity. Accounting for Pension Benefits NEE sponsors a qualified noncontributory defined benefit pension plan for substantially all employees of NEE and its subsidiaries. Management believes that, based on actuarial assumptions and the well-funded status of the pension plan, NEE will not be required to make any cash contributions to the qualified pension plan in the near future. The qualified pension plan has a fully funded trust dedicated to providing benefits under the plan. NEE allocates net periodic income associated with the pension plan to its subsidiaries annually using specific criteria. Nature of Accounting Estimates For the pension plan, the benefit obligation is the actuarial present value, as of the December 31 measurement date, of all benefits attributed by the pension benefit formula to employee service rendered to that date. The amount of benefit to be paid depends on a number of future events incorporated into the pension benefit formula, including an estimate of the average remaining life of employees/survivors as well as the average years of service rendered. The projected benefit obligation is measured based on assumptions concerning future interest rates and future employee compensation levels. NEE derives pension income from actuarial calculations based on the plan’s provisions and various management assumptions including discount rate, rate of increase in compensation levels and expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Assumptions and Accounting Approach Accounting guidance requires recognition of the funded status of the pension plan in the balance sheet, with changes in the funded status recognized in other comprehensive income within shareholders’ equity in the year in which the changes occur. Since NEE is the plan sponsor, and its subsidiaries do not have separate rights to the plan assets or direct obligations to their employees, this accounting guidance is reflected at NEE and not allocated to the subsidiaries. The portion of previously unrecognized actuarial gains and losses and prior service costs or credits that are estimated to be allocable to FPL as net periodic (income) cost in future periods and that otherwise would be recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income are classified as regulatory assets and liabilities at NEE in accordance with regulatory treatment. 48 Net periodic pension income is calculated using a number of actuarial assumptions. Those assumptions for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 include: In developing these assumptions, NEE evaluated input, including other qualitative and quantitative factors, from its actuaries and consultants, as well as information available in the marketplace. Discount rates are established using the full yield curve approach. In addition, for the expected long-term rate of return on pension plan assets, NEE considered different models, capital market return assumptions and historical returns for a portfolio with an equity/bond asset mix similar to its pension fund, as well as its pension fund's historical compounded returns. NEE will continue to evaluate all of its actuarial assumptions, including its expected rate of return, at least annually, and will adjust them as appropriate. NEE utilizes in its determination of pension income a market-related valuation of plan assets. This market-related valuation reduces year-to-year volatility and recognizes investment gains or losses over a five-year period following the year in which they occur. Investment gains or losses for this purpose are the difference between the expected return calculated using the market-related value of plan assets and the actual return realized on those plan assets. Since the market-related value of plan assets recognizes gains or losses over a five-year period, the future value of plan assets will be affected as previously deferred gains or losses are recognized. Such gains and losses together with other differences between actual results and the estimates used in the actuarial valuations are deferred and recognized in determining pension income only to the extent they exceed 10% of the greater of projected benefit obligations or the market-related value of plan assets. The following table illustrates the effect on net periodic pension income of changing the critical actuarial assumptions discussed above, while holding all other assumptions constant: NEE also utilizes actuarial assumptions about mortality to help estimate obligations of the pension plan. NEE has adopted the latest revised mortality tables and mortality improvement scales released by the Society of Actuaries, which did not have a material impact on the pension plan's obligation. See Note 12. Carrying Value of Long-Lived Assets NEE evaluates long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Nature of Accounting Estimates The amount of future net cash flows, the timing of the cash flows and the determination of an appropriate interest rate all involve estimates and judgments about future events. In particular, the aggregate amount of cash flows determines whether an impairment exists, and the timing of the cash flows is critical in determining fair value. Because each assessment is based on the facts and circumstances associated with each long-lived asset, the effects of changes in assumptions cannot be generalized. 49 Assumptions and Accounting Approach An impairment loss is required to be recognized if the carrying value of the asset exceeds the undiscounted future net cash flows associated with that asset. The impairment loss to be recognized is the amount by which the carrying value of the long-lived asset exceeds the asset’s fair value. In most instances, the fair value is determined by discounting estimated future cash flows using an appropriate interest rate. Carrying Value of Equity Method Investments NEE tests its equity method investments for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the fair value of the investment is less than the carrying value . Nature of Accounting Estimates Indicators of impairment may include, but are not limited to, a series of operating losses of an investee, the absence of an ability to recover the carrying amount of the investment, the inability of the investee to sustain an earnings capacity and a current fair value of an investment that may be less than its carrying value. If indicators of impairment exist, an estimate of the investment’s fair value will be calculated. Approaches for estimating fair value include, among others, an income approach using a probability-weighted discounted cash flows model, a market approach using an earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) multiple model, and a market observable transaction. The probability assigned to each scenario as well as the cash flows and EBITDA multiple identified are critical in determining fair value. Assumptions and Accounting Approach An impairment loss is required to be recognized if the impairment is deemed to be other than temporary. Assessment of whether an investment is other than temporarily impaired involves, among other factors, consideration of the length of time that the fair value is below the carrying value, current expected performance relative to the expected performance when the investment was initially made, performance relative to peers, industry performance relative to the economy, credit rating, regulatory actions and legal and permitting challenges. If management is unable to reasonably assert that an impairment is temporary or believes that there will not be full recovery of the carrying value of its investment, then the impairment is considered to be other than temporary. Investments that are other than temporarily impaired are written down to their estimated fair value and cannot subsequently be written back up for increases in estimated fair value. Impairment losses are recorded in equity in earnings (losses) of equity method investees in NEE’s consolidated statements of income. See Note 4 – Nonrecurring Fair Value Measurements. Decommissioning and Dismantlement NEE accounts for asset retirement obligations and conditional asset retirement obligations (collectively, AROs) under accounting guidance that requires a liability for the fair value of an ARO to be recognized in the period in which it is incurred if it can be reasonably estimated, with the offsetting associated asset retirement costs capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the long-lived assets. NEE's AROs relate primarily to decommissioning obligations of FPL's and NEER's nuclear units and to obligations for the dismantlement of certain of NEER's wind and solar facilities. Nature of Accounting Estimates The calculation of the future cost of retiring long-lived assets, including nuclear decommissioning and plant dismantlement costs, involves estimating the amount and timing of future expenditures and making judgments concerning whether or not such costs are considered a legal obligation. Estimating the amount and timing of future expenditures includes, among other things, making projections of when assets will be retired and ultimately decommissioned and how costs will escalate with inflation. In addition, NEE also makes interest rate and rate of return projections on its investments in determining recommended funding requirements for nuclear decommissioning costs. Periodically, NEE is required to update these estimates and projections which can affect the annual expense amounts recognized, the liabilities recorded and the annual funding requirements for nuclear decommissioning costs. For example, an increase of 0.25% in the assumed escalation rates for nuclear decommissioning costs would increase NEE’s AROs at December 31, 2023 by approximately $93 million. Assumptions and Accounting Approach FPL – For ratemaking purpos es, FPL accrues and funds for nuclear plant decommissioning costs over the expected service life of each unit based on studies that are approved by the FPSC. The most recent studies, filed in 2020, reflect, among other things, the expiration dates of the operating licenses for FPL’s nuclear units at the time of the studies. FPL’s portion of the future cost of decommissioning its four nuclear units, including spent fuel storage above what is expected to be refunded by the DOE under a spent fuel settlement agreement, is estimated to be approximately $9.4 billion, or $2.5 billion expressed in 2023 dollars. The ultimate costs of decommissioning reflect the applications submitted to the NRC for the extension of Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 and St. Lucie Units Nos. 1 and 2 licenses for an additional 20 years. 50 FPL accrues the cost of dismantling its other generation plants over the expected service life of each unit based on studies filed with the FPSC. Unlike nuclear decommissioning, dismantlement costs are not funded. The most recent studies became effective January 1, 2022. At December 31, 2023, FPL’s portion of the ultimate cost to dismantle its other generation units is approximately $2.4 billion, or $1.2 billion expressed in 2023 dollars. The majority of the dismantlement costs are not reported as AROs. FPL accrues for interim removal costs over the life of the related assets based on depreciation studies approved by the FPSC. Any differences between the amount of the ARO and the amount recorded for ratemaking purposes are reported as a regulatory asset or liability in accordance with regulatory accounting. The components of FPL’s decommissioning of nuclear plants, dismantlement of plants and other accrued asset removal costs are as follows: ______________________ (a)    See Note 11. (b)    Included in noncurrent regulatory liabilities on NEE’s and FPL’s consolidated balance sheets, except for $1,021 million and $532 million which are related to interim removal costs and are included in noncurrent regulatory assets as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. See Note 1 – Rate Regulation. (c)    Included in noncurrent regulatory liabilities on NEE's and FPL's consolidated balance sheets, except for $14 million and $38 million which are related to other generation plant dismantlement and are included in noncurrent regulatory assets as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. (d)    Represents total amount accrued for ratemaking purposes. NEER – NEER records liabilities for the present value of its expected nuclear plant decommissioning costs which are determined using various internal and external data and applying a probability percentage to a variety of scenarios regarding the life of the plant and timing of decommissioning. The liabilities are being accreted using the interest method through the date decommissioning activities are expected to be complete. At December 31, 2023 and 2022 , the AROs for decommissioning of NEER’s nuclear plants approximate d $607 million and $ 604 million, respectively. NEER’s portion of the ultimate cost of decommissioning its nuclear plants, including costs associated with spent fuel storage above what is expected to be refunded by the DOE under a spent fuel settlement agreement, is estimated to be approxima tely $9.8 billion, or $2.2 billion ex pressed in 2023 dollars. See Note 1 – Asset Retirement Obligations and – Decommissioning of Nuclear Plants, Dismantlement of Plants and Other Accrued Asset Removal Costs and Note 11. Regulatory Accounting Certain of NEE's businesses are subject to rate regulation which results in the recording of regulatory assets and liabilities. See Note 1 – Rate Regulation for details regarding NEE’s regulatory assets and liabilities. Nature of Accounting Estimates Regulatory assets and liabilities represent probable future revenues that will be recovered from or refunded to customers through the ratemaking process. Regulatory assets and liabilities are included in rate base or otherwise earn (pay) a return on investment during the recovery period. Assumptions and Accounting Approach Accounting guidance allows regulators to create assets and impose liabilities that would not be recorded by non-rate regulated entities. If NEE's rate-regulated entities, primarily FPL, were no longer subject to cost-based rate regulation, the existing regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off unless regulators specify an alternative means of recovery or refund. In addition, the regulators, including the FPSC for FPL, have the authority to disallow recovery of costs that they consider excessive or imprudently incurred. Such costs may include, among others, fuel and O&M expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when generation facilities are unavailable, storm restoration costs and costs associated with the construction or acquisition of new facilities. The continued applicability of regulatory accounting is assessed at each reporting period. 51 ENERGY MARKETING AND TRADING AND MARKET RISK SENSITIVITY NEE and FPL are exposed to risks associated with adverse changes in commodity prices, interest rates and equity prices. Financial instruments and positions affecting the financial statements of NEE and FPL described below are held primarily for purposes other than trading. Market risk is measured as the potential loss in fair value resulting from hypothetical reasonably possible changes in commodity prices, interest rates or equity prices over the next year. Management has established risk management policies to monitor and manage such market risks, as well as credit risks. Commodity Price Risk NEE and FPL use derivative instruments (primarily swaps, options, futures and forwards) to manage the physical and financial risks inherent in the purchase and sale of fuel and electricity. In addition, NEE, through NEER, uses derivatives to optimize the value of its power generation and gas infrastructure assets and engages in power and fuel marketing and trading activities to take advantage of expected future favorable price movements. See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Accounting for Derivatives and Hedging Activities and Note 3. During 2022 and 2023, the changes in the fair value of NEE’s consolidated subsidiaries’ energy contract derivative instruments were as follows: NEE’s total mark-to-market energy contract net assets (liabilities) at December 31, 2023 shown above are included on the consolidated balance sheets as follows: 52 The sources of fair value estimates and maturity of energy contract derivative instruments at December 31, 2023 were as follows: With respect to commodities, NEE’s Exposure Management Committee (EMC), which is comprised of certain members of senior management, and NEE's chief executive officer are responsible for the overall approval of market risk management policies and the delegation of approval and authorization levels. The EMC and NEE's chief executive officer receive periodic updates on market positions and related exposures, credit exposures and overall risk management activities. NEE uses a value-at-risk (VaR) model to measure commodity price market risk in its trading and mark-to-market portfolios. The VaR is the estimated loss of market value based on a one-day holding period at a 95% confidence level using historical simulation methodology. The VaR figures are as follows: ______________________ (a)    The VaR figures for the trading portfolio include positions that are marked to market. Taking into consideration offsetting unmarked non-derivative positions, such as physical inventory, the trading VaR figures were approximately $1 million and $18 million at December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. (b)    Non-qualifying hedges are employed to reduce the market risk exposure to physical assets or contracts which are not marked to market. The VaR figures for the non-qualifying hedges and hedges in FPL cost recovery clauses category do not represent the economic exposure to commodity price movements. Interest Rate Risk NEE's and FPL's financial results are exposed to risk resulting from changes in interest rates as a result of their respective outstanding a nd expected future issuances of d ebt, investments in special use funds and other investments. NEE and FPL manage their respective interest rate exposure by monitoring current interest rates, entering into interest rate contracts and using a combination of fixed rate and variable rate debt. Interest rate contracts are used to mitigate and adjust interest rate exposure when deemed appropriate based upon market conditions or when required by financing agreements. 53 The following are estimates of the fair value of NEE's and FPL's financial instruments that are exposed to interest rate risk: ______________________ (a)    See Note 3 and Note 4. The special use funds of NEE and FPL consist of restricted funds set aside to cover the cost of storm damage for FPL and for the decommissioning of NEE's and FPL's nuclear power plants. See Note 1 – Storm Funds, Storm Reserves and Storm Cost Recovery. A portion of these funds is invested in fixed income debt securities primarily carried at estimated fair value. At FPL, changes in fair value, including any credit losses, result in a corresponding adjustment to the related regulatory asset or liability accounts based on current regulatory treatment. The changes in fair value for NEE's non-rate regulated operations result in a corresponding adjustment to other comprehensive income, except for credit losses and unrealized losses on available for sale securities intended or required to be sold prior to recovery of the amortized cost basis, which are reported in current period earnings. Because the funds set aside by FPL for storm damage could be needed at any time, the related investments are generally more liquid and, therefore, are less sensitive to changes in interest rates. The nuclear decommissioning funds, in contrast, are generally invested in longer-term securities. At December 31, 2023, NEE had interest rate contracts with a net notional amount of approximately $25.6 billion to manage exposure to the variability of cash flows primarily associated with expected future and outstanding debt issuances at NEECH and NEER. In January 2024, NEECH entered into a $4.0 billion interest rate contract which reduced the net notional amount. See Note 3. Based upon a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates, the fair value of NEE’s net liabilities would increase by approxim ately $2,705 million ($1,093 million f or FPL) at December 31, 2023. Equity Price Risk NEE and FPL are exposed to risk resulting from changes in prices for equity securities. For example, NEE’s nuclear decommissioning reserve funds include marketable equity securities carried at their market value of approximately $5,290 million and $4,437 million ($3,536 million and $2,905 million for FPL) at December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. NEE's and FPL’s investment strategy for equity securities in their nuclear decommissioning reserve funds emphasizes marketable securities which are broadly diversified. At December 31, 2023, a hypothetical 10% decrease in the prices quoted on stock exchanges would result in an approximately $494 million ($322 million for FPL) reduction in fair value. For FPL, a corresponding adjustment would be made to the related regulatory asset or liability accounts based on current regulatory treatment, and for NEE’s non-rate regulated operations, a corresponding amount would be recorded in change in unrealized gains (losses) on equity securities held in NEER's nuclear decommissioning funds – net in NEE's consolidated statements of income. Credit Risk NEE and its subsidiaries, including FPL, are also exposed to credit risk through their energy marketing and trading operations. Credit risk is the risk that a financial loss will be incurred if a counterparty to a transaction does not fulfill its financial obligation. NEE manages counterparty credit risk for its subsidiaries with energy marketing and trading operations through established policies, including counterparty credit limits, and in some cases credit enhancements, such as cash prepayments, letters of credit, cash and other collateral and guarantees. 54 Credit risk is also managed through the use of master netting agreements. NEE’s credit department monitors current and forward credit exposure to counterparties and their affiliates, both on an individual and an aggregate basis. For all derivative and contractual transactions, NEE’s energy marketing and trading operations, which include FPL's energy marketing and trading division, are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to these transactions. Some relevant considerations when assessing NEE’s energy marketing and trading operations’ credit risk exposure include the following: • Operations are primarily concentrated in the energy industry. • Trade receivables and other financial instruments are predominately with energy, utility and financial services related companies, as well as municipalities, cooperatives and other trading companies in the U.S. • Overall credit risk is managed through established credit policies and is overseen by the EMC. • Prospective and existing customers are reviewed for creditworthiness based upon established standards, with customers not meeting minimum standards providing various credit enhancements or secured payment terms, such as letters of credit or the posting of margin cash collateral. • Master netting agreements are used to offset cash and noncash gains and losses arising from derivative instruments with the same counterparty. NEE’s policy is to have master netting agreements in place with significant counterparties. Based on NEE’s policies and risk exposures related to credit, NEE and FPL do not anticipate a material adverse effect on their financial statements as a result of counterparty nonperformance. At December 31, 2023, NEE's credit risk exposure associated with its energy marketing and trading counterparties, taking into account collateral and contractual netting rights, totaled approximately $3.5 billion ($83 million for FPL), of which approximately 93% (100% for FPL) was with companies that have investment grade credit ratings. See Note 1 – Credit Losses and Note 3.