********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

N I S OURCE I NC . SUMMARY OF RISK FACTORS Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock. This summary is not intended to be complete and should only be read together with the information set forth in “Item 1A, Risk Factors” in this report. Operational Risks • We may not be able to execute our business plan or growth strategy. • Our gas distribution and transmission activities, as well as generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, involve a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks. • Failure to adapt to advances in technology and manage the related costs could make us less competitive. • Aging infrastructure may lead to disruptions in operations and increased capital expenditures and maintenance costs. • Our insurance may not provide protection against all significant losses. • The implementation of our electric generation strategy may not achieve intended results. • Our capital projects and programs subject us to construction risks and natural gas costs and supply risks, and are subject to regulatory oversight. • Fluctuations in weather, gas and electricity commodity costs, inflation and economic conditions impact demand of our customers and our operating results. • Fluctuations in the price of energy commodities or their related transportation costs or an inability to obtain an adequate, reliable and cost-effective fuel supply to meet customer demands may have a negative impact on our financial results. • Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, and maintain good labor relations, could harm our results of operations. • If we cannot effectively manage new initiatives and organizational changes, we will be unable to address the opportunities and challenges presented by our strategy and the business and regulatory environment. • Actions of activist stockholders could negatively affect our business and stock price and cause us to incur significant expenses. • We outsource certain business functions to third-party suppliers and service providers, and substandard performance by those third parties could harm our business, reputation and results of operations. • A cyber-attack on any of our or certain third-party technology systems upon which we rely may adversely affect our ability to operate and could lead to a loss or misuse of confidential and proprietary information or potential liability. • Compliance with and changes in cybersecurity requirements have a cost and operational impact on our business. • We are exposed to significant reputational risks, which make us vulnerable to a loss of cost recovery, increased litigation and negative public perception. • We have continued financial liabilities related to the sale of the Massachusetts Business. • The impacts of catastrophic events may disrupt operations and reduce the ability to service customers. • The physical impacts of climate change and the transition to a lower carbon future are affecting our business. • We are subject to risks associated with the implementation and efforts to achieve our carbon emission reduction goals. Financial, Economic and Market Risks • We have substantial indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial condition. • A drop in our credit ratings could adversely impact our cash flows, results of operation, financial condition and liquidity. • The global outbreak of the novel coronavirus and its variants (COVID-19) has adversely impacted and may continue to adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows. • Adverse economic and market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and liquidity. • Most of our revenues are subject to economic regulation and are exposed to the impact of regulatory rate reviews. • The actions of regulators and legislators could result in outcomes that may adversely affect our earnings and liquidity. • Our business operations are subject to economic conditions in certain industries. • We are exposed to risk that customers will not remit payment for delivered energy or services, and that suppliers or counterparties will not perform under various financial or operating agreements. • We are dependent on cash generated by our subsidiaries to meet our debt obligations and pay dividends on our stock. • The trading prices for our Equity Units are expected to be affected by, among other things, the trading prices of our common stock, the general level of interest rates and our credit quality. 14 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS N I S OURCE I NC . • The early settlement right triggered under certain circumstances and the supermajority rights of the mandatory convertible preferred stock following a fundamental change, could discourage a potential acquirer. • Our Equity Units and the issuance and sale of common stock in settlement of the purchase contracts and conversion of mandatory convertible preferred stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and will cause dilution to our stockholders. • Capital market performance and other factors may decrease the value of benefit plan assets, which then could require significant additional funding and impact earnings. • Any future impairments of goodwill could result in a significant charge to earnings in a future period and negatively impact our compliance with certain covenants under financing agreements. • Changes in the method for determining LIBOR and the potential replacement of the LIBOR benchmark interest rate could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Litigation, Regulatory and Legislative Risks • The outcome of legal and regulatory proceedings, investigations, inquiries, claims and litigation related to our business operations may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or liquidity. • The Greater Lawrence Incident has materially adversely affected and may continue to materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. • Our settlement with the U.S. Attorney’s Office in respect of federal charges in connection with the Greater Lawrence Incident may expose us to further penalties, liabilities and private litigation, and may impact our operations. • We could be materially adversely affected if we fail to comply with the laws, regulations and tariffs that apply to our businesses. • The cost of compliance with environmental laws, and changes to or additions to, or reinterpretations of the laws, could be significant.  Liability from the failure to comply with existing or changed environmental laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. • Changes in taxation and the ability to quantify such changes as well as challenges to tax positions could adversely affect our financial results. OPERATIONAL RISKS We may not be able to execute our business plan or growth strategy, including utility infrastructure investments. Business or regulatory conditions may result in us not being able to execute our business plan or growth strategy, including identified, planned and other utility infrastructure investments, which includes investments related to natural gas pipeline modernization and investments related to our renewable energy projects and the build-transfer execution goals within our business plan. Our “NiSource Next” initiative, a comprehensive program designed to identify long-term sustainable capability enhancements and cost optimization improvements, has increased the volume and pace of change and may not be effective as it continues.  Our customer and regulatory initiatives may not achieve planned results. Utility infrastructure investments may not materialize, may cease to be achievable or economically viable and may not be successfully completed. Natural gas may cease to be viewed as an economically and environmentally attractive fuel. Certain environmental activist groups, investors and governmental entities continue to oppose natural gas delivery and infrastructure investments because of perceived environmental impacts associated with the natural gas supply chain and end use. Energy conservation, energy efficiency, distributed generation, energy storage, policies favoring electric heat over gas heat and other factors may reduce demand for natural gas and electricity.  In addition, we consider acquisitions or dispositions of assets or businesses, joint ventures and mergers from time to time as we execute on our business plan and growth strategy. Any of these circumstances could adversely affect our results of operations and growth prospects.  Even if our business plan and growth strategy are executed, there is still risk of, among other things, human error in maintenance, installation or operations, shortages or delays in obtaining equipment, and performance below expected levels (in addition to the other risks discussed in this section).  We are currently experiencing, and expect to continue to experience, supply chain challenges impacting our ability to obtain materials for our gas and electric projects.  Risks to our capital projects is described in a separate risk factor below. 15 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS N I S OURCE I NC . Our gas distribution and transmission activities, as well as generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, involve a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks, including potential public safety risks. Our gas distribution and transmission activities, as well as generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity, involve a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks, including, but not limited to, gas leaks and over-pressurization, downed power lines, stray electrical voltage, excavation or vehicular damage to our infrastructure, outages, environmental spills, mechanical problems and other incidents, which could cause substantial financial losses, as demonstrated in part by the Greater Lawrence Incident. We also have distribution propane assets that involve similar risks.  In addition, these hazards and risks have resulted and may in the future result in serious injury or loss of life to employees and/or the general public, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations, adverse regulatory rulings and reputational harm, which in turn could lead to substantial losses for NiSource and its stockholders. The location of pipeline facilities, including regulator stations, liquefied natural gas and underground storage, or generation, transmission, substation and distribution facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from such incidents. As with the Greater Lawrence Incident, certain incidents have subjected and may in the future subject us to litigation or administrative or other legal proceedings from time to time, both civil and criminal, which could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines, or penalties against us, be resolved on unfavorable terms, and require us to incur significant operational expenses. The occurrence of incidents has in certain instances adversely affected and could in the future adversely affect our reputation, cash flows, financial position and/or results of operations. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. Failure to adapt to advances in technology and manage the related costs could make us less competitive and negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. A key element of our electric business model includes generating power at central station power plants to achieve economies of scale and produce power at a competitive cost. We continue to research, plan for, and implement new technologies that produce reliable, cost-efficient power or reduce power consumption and improve the impact on the environment.  These technologies, many of which NiSource is implementing, include renewable energy, distributed generation, energy storage, and energy efficiency. Advances in technology, changes in laws or regulations (including subsidization) and other alternative methods of producing power could reduce the cost of electric generation from these sources to a level that is competitive with most central station power electric production, causing power sales to decline and the value of our generating facilities to decline. Other new technologies require us to make significant expenditures to remain competitive and may result in the obsolescence of certain operating assets. Our natural gas business model depends on widespread utilization of natural gas for space heating as a core driver of revenues.  Alternative energy sources, new technologies or alternatives to natural gas space heating, including cold climate heat pumps and/or efficiency of other products, could reduce demand and increase customer attrition, which would impact our ability to recover on our investments in our gas distribution assets. In addition, customers are increasingly expecting additional communications, increased access to information, and expanded electronic capabilities regarding their electric and natural gas services, which, in some cases, involves additional investments in technology. We also rely on technology to adequately maintain key business records. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and successfully adapt to technological changes, to offer services that meet customer demands and evolving industry standards, including environmental impacts associated with our products and services, and to recover all, or a significant portion of, any unrecovered investment in obsolete assets. A failure by us to effectively adapt to changes in technology and manage the related costs could harm our ability to remain competitive in the marketplace for our products and services and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Aging infrastructure may lead to disruptions in operations and increased capital expenditures and maintenance costs, all of which could negatively impact our financial results. We have risks associated with aging electric and gas infrastructure. These risks can be driven by threats such as, but not limited to, electrical faults, mechanical failure, internal corrosion, external corrosion, ground movement and stress corrosion and/or cracking. The age of these assets may result in a need for replacement, a higher level of maintenance costs, or unscheduled outages, despite efforts by us to properly maintain or upgrade these assets through inspection, scheduled maintenance and capital investment. In addition, the nature of the information available on aging infrastructure assets, which in some cases is incomplete, may make the operation of the infrastructure, inspections, maintenance, upgrading and replacement of the assets particularly challenging. Missing or incorrect infrastructure data may lead to (1) difficulty properly locating facilities, which 16 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS N I S OURCE I NC . can result in excavator damage and operational or emergency response issues, and (2) configuration and control risks associated with the modification of system operating pressures in connection with turning off or turning on service to customers, which can result in unintended outages or operating pressures. Also, additional maintenance and inspections are required in some instances in order to improve infrastructure information and records and address emerging regulatory or risk management requirements, which increases our costs. Supply chain issues related to shortages of materials and transportation logistics may lead to delays in the maintenance and replacement of aging infrastructure, which could increase the probability and/or impact of a public safety incident. We lack diversity in suppliers of gas materials. We may not be effective in ensuring that we can obtain adequate emergency supply on a timely basis in each state, that no compromises are being made on quality and that we have alternate suppliers available. The failure to operate our assets as desired could result in interruption of electric service, major component failure at generating facilities and electric substations, gas leaks and other incidents, and an inability to meet firm service and compliance obligations, which could adversely impact revenues, and could also result in increased capital expenditures and maintenance costs, which, if not fully recovered from customers, could negatively impact our financial results. We may be unable to obtain insurance on acceptable terms or at all, and the insurance coverage we do obtain may not provide protection against all significant losses. Our ability to obtain insurance, as well as the cost and coverage of such insurance, are affected by developments affecting our business; international, national, state, or local events; and the financial condition and underwriting considerations of insurers.  For example, some insurers are moving away from underwriting certain carbon-intensive energy-related businesses such as those in the coal industry or those exposed to certain perils such as wildfires as well as gas explosion events or other infrastructure-related risks. The utility insurance market continues to be impacted by a prevalence of severe losses, and despite significant increases in rates over the past few years, markets are experiencing unacceptable loss ratios.  We have not been able to obtain liability insurance coverage at previously procured limits at rates that are acceptable to us.  Capacity limits insurers are willing to issue have decreased, requiring participation from more insurers to provide adequate coverage.  Insurance coverage may not continue to be available at limits, rates or terms acceptable to us.  The premiums we pay for our insurance coverage have significantly increased as a result of market conditions and the accumulated loss ratio over the history of our operations, and we do not expect those costs to decline.  In addition, our insurance is not sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we are subject. For example, total expenses related to the Greater Lawrence Incident exceeded the total amount of liability coverage available under our policies.  Certain types of damages, expenses or claimed costs, such as fines and penalties, have been and in the future may be excluded under the policies. In addition, insurers providing insurance to us may raise defenses to coverage under the terms and conditions of the respective insurance policies that could result in a denial of coverage or limit the amount of insurance proceeds available to us.  Any losses for which we are not fully insured or that are not covered by insurance at all could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. The implementation of NIPSCO’s electric generation strategy, including the retirement of its coal generation units, may not achieve intended results. Our plan to replace our coal generation capacity by the end of 2028 with primarily renewable resources is well underway. We submitted an Integrated Resource Plan (the “Plan”) to the IURC, and our Preferred Energy Resource Plan, which refines the timeline to retire the Michigan City Generating Station to occur between 2026 and 2028. We submitted our 2021 Plan to the IURC in November 2021. The 2021 Plan calls for the replacement of the retiring units with a diverse portfolio of resources including demand side management resources, incremental solar, stand-alone energy storage and upgrades to existing facilities at the Sugar Creek Generating Station, among other steps. The precise timing of the retirement will be informed by regulatory and policy changes, our ability to maintain reliability of the system and our ability to secure replacement capacity. For additional information, see “Results and Discussion of Segment Operations - Electric Operations,” in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. There are inherent risks and uncertainties in executing the projects associated with the 2018 and 2021 plans both for what has been already executed and what capacity is still planned, including changes in market conditions, supply chain disruptions, regulatory approvals, environmental regulations, commodity costs and customer expectations, which may impede NIPSCO’s ability to achieve the intended results and associated timelines.  Changes in the cost, availability and supply of generation capacity may affect the implementation of the results from the 2021 Plan.  Advancements in technology in replacement resources may not become commercially available or economically feasible as projected in the 2021 Plan and the implementation execution may vary from that which has been communicated.  NIPSCO’s future success will depend, in part, on its ability to successfully implement its long-term electric generation plans, to offer services that meet customer demands and evolving industry standards, and to recover all, or a significant portion of, any unrecovered investment in obsolete assets. 17 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS N I S OURCE I NC . NIPSCO’s electric generation strategy could require significant future capital expenditures, operating costs and charges to earnings that may negatively impact our financial position, financial results and cash flows. An inability to secure and deliver on renewable projects would negatively impact our generation transition timeline, achievement of decarbonization goals and reputation. Our capital projects and programs subject us to construction risks and natural gas costs and supply risks, and are subject to regulatory oversight, including requirements for permits, approvals and certificates from various governmental agencies. Our business requires substantial capital expenditures for investments in, among other things, capital improvements to our electric generating facilities, electric and natural gas distribution infrastructure, natural gas storage, and other projects, including projects for environmental compliance. We are engaged in intrastate natural gas pipeline modernization programs to maintain system integrity and enhance service reliability and flexibility.  NIPSCO also is currently engaged in a number of capital projects, including environmental improvements to its electric generating stations, the construction of new transmission and distribution facilities, and new projects related to renewable energy.  As we undertake these projects and programs, we may be unable to complete them on schedule or at the anticipated costs due in part to shortages in materials as described more fully below. Additionally, we may construct or purchase some of these projects and programs to capture anticipated future growth, which may not materialize, and may cause the construction to occur over an extended period of time. Our existing and planned capital projects require numerous permits, approvals and certificates from federal, state, and local governmental agencies. If there is a delay in obtaining any required regulatory approvals or if we fail to obtain or maintain any required approvals or to comply with any applicable laws or regulations, we may not be able to construct or operate our facilities, we may be forced to incur additional costs, or we may be unable to recover any or all amounts invested in a project. We also may not receive the anticipated increases in revenue and cash flows resulting from such projects and programs until after their completion. Other construction risks include changes in the availability and costs of materials, equipment, commodities or labor (including changes to tariffs on materials), delays caused by construction incidents or injuries, work stoppages, shortages in qualified labor, poor initial cost estimates, unforeseen engineering issues, the ability to obtain necessary rights-of-way, easements and transmissions connections and general contractors and subcontractors not performing as required under their contracts. We are monitoring risks related to increasing order and delivery lead times for construction and other materials, increasing risk associated with the unavailability of materials due to global shortages in raw materials and issues with transportation logistics, and risk of decreased construction labor productivity in the event of disruptions in the availability of materials critical to our gas and electric operations. Our efforts to enhance our resiliency to supply chain shortages may not be effective. We are also seeing increasing prices associated with certain materials, equipment and products, which impacts our ability to complete major capital projects at the cost that was planned and approved. To the extent that delays occur or costs increase, customer affordability as well as our business operations, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, to the extent that delays occur on projects that target system integrity, the risk of an operational incident could increase. For more information on global availability of materials for our renewable projects, see " - Results and Discussion of Segment Operations - Electric Operations - Electric Supply and Generation Transition." To the extent that delays occur, costs become unrecoverable or recovery is delayed, or we otherwise become unable to effectively manage and complete our capital projects, our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition may be adversely affected. A significant portion of the gas and electricity we sell is used by residential and commercial customers for heating and air conditioning. Accordingly, fluctuations in weather, gas and electricity commodity costs, inflation and economic conditions impact demand of our customers and our operating results. Energy sales are sensitive to variations in weather. Forecasts of energy sales are based on “normal” weather, which represents a long-term historical average. Significant variations from normal weather resulting from climate change or other factors could have, and have had, a material impact on energy sales. Additionally, residential usage, and to some degree commercial usage, is sensitive to fluctuations in commodity costs for gas and electricity, whereby usage declines with increased costs, thus affecting our financial results. Commodity prices have been increasing.  Rising gas costs could heighten regulator and stakeholder sensitivity relative to the impact of base rate increases on customer affordability.  Lastly, residential and commercial customers’ usage is sensitive to economic conditions and factors such as unemployment, consumption and consumer confidence.  Therefore, prevailing economic conditions affecting the demand of our customers may in turn affect our financial results. 18 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS N I S OURCE I NC . Fluctuations in the price of energy commodities or their related transportation costs or an inability to obtain an adequate, reliable and cost-effective fuel supply to meet customer demands may have a negative impact on our financial results. Our current electric generating fleet is dependent on coal and natural gas for fuel, and our gas distribution operations purchase and resell a portion of the natural gas we deliver to our customers. These energy commodities are subject to price fluctuations and fluctuations in associated transportation costs. We use physical hedging through the use of storage assets and use financial products in certain jurisdictions in order to offset fluctuations in commodity supply prices. We rely on regulatory recovery mechanisms in the various jurisdictions in order to fully recover the commodity costs incurred in selling energy to our customers. However, while we have historically been successful in the recovery of costs related to such commodity prices, there can be no assurance that such costs will be fully recovered through rates in a timely manner. In addition, we depend on electric transmission lines, natural gas pipelines, and other transportation facilities owned and operated by third parties to deliver the electricity and natural gas we sell to wholesale markets, supply natural gas to our gas storage and electric generation facilities, and provide retail energy services to our customers. If transportation is disrupted, or if capacity is inadequate, we may be unable to sell and deliver our gas and electric services to some or all of our customers. As a result, we may be required to procure additional or alternative electricity and/or natural gas supplies at then-current market rates, which, if recovery of related costs is disallowed, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, and maintain good labor relations, could harm our results of operations. We operate in an industry that requires many of our employees and contractors to possess unique technical skill sets.  An aging workforce without appropriate replacements, the mismatch of skill sets to future needs, the unavailability of talent for internal positions, and the unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges or increased costs. These operating challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. For example, certain skills, such as those related to construction, maintenance and repair of transmission and distribution systems are in high demand and have a limited supply. Current and prospective employees may determine that they do not wish to work for us due to market, economic, employment and other conditions, including those related to organizational changes as described in the risk factor below. We face increased competition for talent in the current environment of sustained labor shortage and increased turnover rates. Additionally, any regulatory changes requiring us to enforce a COVID-19 vaccination mandate and how such a mandate is implemented could impact the availability of, and our ability to attract and retain, sufficient qualified employees. We are also facing increasing risk of worker illness and availability due to more contagious COVID-19 variants.  These or other employee workforce factors could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. A significant portion of our workforce is subject to collective bargaining agreements, several of which are currently being renegotiated. Our collective bargaining agreements are generally negotiated on an operating company basis with some companies having multiple bargaining agreements, which may span different geographies.  Any failure to reach an agreement on new labor contracts or to renegotiate these labor contracts might result in strikes, boycotts or other labor disruptions. Our workforce continuity plans may not be effective in avoiding work stoppages that may result from labor negotiations or mass resignations. Labor disruptions, strikes or significant negotiated wage and benefit increases, whether due to union activities, employee turnover or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or cash flows. Our strategic plan includes enhanced technology and transmission and distribution investments and a reduction in reliance on coal-fired generation. As part of our strategic plan, we will need to attract and retain personnel that are qualified to implement our strategy and may need to retrain or re-skill certain employees to support our long-term objectives. Failure to hire and retain qualified employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, may adversely affect our ability to manage and operate our business.  If we are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce and maintain satisfactory collective bargaining agreements, safety, service reliability, customer satisfaction and our results of operations could be adversely affected. 19 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS N I S OURCE I NC . If we cannot effectively manage new initiatives and organizational changes, we will be unable to address the opportunities and challenges presented by our strategy and the business and regulatory environment. In order to execute on our sustainable growth strategy and enhance our culture of ongoing continuous improvement, we must effectively manage the complexity and frequency of new initiatives and organizational changes.  The organizational changes from the NiSource Next initiative have put short-term pressure on employees due to the volume and pace of change and, in some cases, loss of personnel.  Front-line workers are being impacted by the variety of process and technology changes that are currently in progress. If we are unable to make decisions quickly, assess our opportunities and risks, and successfully implement new governance, managerial and organizational processes as needed to execute our strategy in this increasingly dynamic and competitive business and regulatory environment, our financial condition, results of operations and relationships with our business partners, regulators, customers, employees and stockholders may be negatively impacted. Actions of activist stockholders could negatively affect our business and stock price and cause us to incur significant expenses We may be subject to actions or proposals from activist stockholders or others that may not be aligned with our long-term strategy or the interests of our other stockholders. We have had communications with an activist stakeholder. Our response to suggested actions, proposals, director nominations and contests for the election of directors activist stockholders could disrupt our business and operations, divert the attention of our board of directors, management and employees, and be costly and time‐consuming. Potential actions by activist stockholders or others may interfere with our ability to execute our strategic plans; create perceived uncertainties as to the future direction of our business or strategy; cause uncertainty with our regulators; make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel; and adversely affect our relationships with our existing and potential business partners. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, we may be required to incur significant fees and other expenses related to responding to shareholder activism, including for third-party advisors. Moreover, our stock price could be subject to significant fluctuation or otherwise be adversely affected by the events, risks and uncertainties of any stockholder activism. We outsource certain business functions to third-party suppliers and service providers, and substandard performance by those third parties could harm our business, reputation and results of operations. Utilities rely on extensive networks of business partners and suppliers to support critical enterprise capabilities across their organizations. Like other companies in the utilities industry, we are seeing slowing deliveries from suppliers and in some cases materials and labor shortages for capital projects. We outsource certain services to third parties in areas including construction services, information technology, materials, fleet, environmental, operational services, corporate and other areas. In addition to delays and unavailability at times, outsourcing of services to third parties could expose us to inferior service quality or substandard deliverables, which may result in non-compliance (including with applicable legal requirements and industry standards), interruption of service or accidents, or reputational harm, which could negatively impact our results of operations.  We do not have full visibility into our supply chain, which may impact our ability to serve customers in a safe, reliable and cost-effective manner.  These risks include the risk of operational failure, reputation damage, disruption due to new supply chain disruptions, exposure to significant commercial losses and fines, and poorly positioned and distressed suppliers. If we continue to see delayed deliveries and shortages or if any other difficulties in the operations of these third-party suppliers and service providers, including their systems, were to occur, they could adversely affect our results of operations, or adversely affect our ability to work with regulators, unions, customers or employees. A cyber-attack on any of our or certain third-party technology systems upon which we rely may adversely affect our ability to operate and could lead to a loss or misuse of confidential and proprietary information or potential liability. We are reliant on technology to run our business, which is dependent upon financial and operational technology systems to process critical information necessary to conduct various elements of our business, including the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity; operation of our gas pipeline facilities; and the recording and reporting of commercial and financial transactions to regulators, investors and other stakeholders.  In addition to general information and cyber risks that all large corporations face (e.g., ransomware, malware, unauthorized access attempts, phishing attacks, malicious intent by insiders, third-party software vulnerabilities and inadvertent disclosure of sensitive information), the utility industry faces evolving and increasingly complex cybersecurity risks associated with protecting sensitive and confidential customer and employee information, electric grid infrastructure, and natural gas infrastructure. Deployment of new business technologies, along with maintaining legacy technology, represents a large-scale opportunity for attacks on our information systems and confidential customer and employee information, as well as on the integrity of the energy grid and the natural gas infrastructure. Increasing 20 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS N I S OURCE I NC . large-scale corporate attacks in conjunction with more sophisticated threats continue to challenge power and utility companies. Any failure of our technology systems, or those of our customers, suppliers or others with whom we do business, could materially disrupt our ability to operate our business and could result in a financial loss and possibly do harm to our reputation. Additionally, our information systems experience ongoing, often sophisticated, cyber-attacks by a variety of sources, including foreign sources, with the apparent aim to breach our cyber-defenses. While we have implemented and maintain a cybersecurity program designed to protect our information technology, operational technology, and data systems from such attacks, our cybersecurity program does not prevent all breaches or cyberattack incidents. We have experienced an increase in the number of attempts by external parties to access our networks or our company data without authorization. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, cyber intrusions and attacks to our information systems and our operational technology. To our knowledge, none of these intrusions or attacks have resulted in a material cybersecurity intrusion or data breach. The risk of a disruption or breach of our operational technology, or the compromise of the data processed in connection with our operations, through cybersecurity breach or ransomware attack has increased as attempted attacks have advanced in sophistication and number around the world.  Technological complexities combined with advanced cyber-attack techniques, lack of cyber hygiene and human error can result in a cyber incident, such as a ransomware attack. Supplier non-compliance with cyber controls can also result in a cyber incident. Attacks can occur at any point in the supply chain or with any suppliers. In addition, we collect and retain personally identifiable information of our customers, stockholders, and employees. Customers, stockholders, and employees expect that we will adequately protect their personal information. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding. Although we attempt to maintain adequate defenses to these attacks and work through industry groups and trade associations to identify common threats and assess our countermeasures, a security breach of our information systems and/or operational technology, or a security breach of the information systems of our customers, suppliers or others with whom we do business, could (i) adversely impact our ability to safely and reliably deliver electricity and natural gas to our customers through our generation, transmission and distribution systems and potentially negatively impact our compliance with certain mandatory reliability and gas flow standards, (ii) subject us to reputational and other harm or liabilities associated with theft or inappropriate release of certain types of information such as system operating information or information, personal or otherwise, relating to our customers or employees, (iii) impact our ability to manage our businesses, and/or (iv) subject us to legal and regulatory proceedings and claims from third parties, in addition to remediation costs, any of which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. Although we do maintain cyber insurance, it is possible that such insurance will not adequately cover any losses or liabilities we may incur as a result of a cybersecurity incident. Compliance with and changes in cybersecurity requirements have a cost and operational impact on our business, and failure to comply with such laws and regulations could adversely impact our reputation, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. As cyberattacks are becoming more sophisticated, U.S. government warnings have indicated that critical infrastructure assets, including pipelines and electric infrastructure, may be specifically targeted by certain groups. In 2021, the Transportation Security Administration (“TSA”) announced two new security directives in response to a ransomware attack on the Colonial Pipeline that occurred earlier in the year. These directives require critical pipeline owners to comply with mandatory reporting measures, designate a cybersecurity coordinator, provide vulnerability assessments, and ensure compliance with certain cybersecurity requirements. Such directives or other requirements may require expenditure of significant additional resources to respond to cyberattacks, to continue to modify or enhance protective measures, or to assess, investigate and remediate any critical infrastructure security vulnerabilities. Any failure to comply with such government regulations or failure in our cybersecurity protective measures may result in enforcement actions that may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, there is no certainty that costs incurred related to securing against threats will be recovered through rates. We are exposed to significant reputational risks, which make us vulnerable to a loss of cost recovery, increased litigation and negative public perception. As a utility company, we are subject to adverse publicity focused on the reliability of our services, the speed with which we are able to respond effectively to electric outages, natural gas leaks or events and related accidents and similar interruptions caused by storm damage, physical or cyber security incidents, or other unanticipated events, as well as our own or third parties' actions or failure to act.  We are subject to prevailing labor markets and high attrition, which may impact the speed of our customer service response. We are also facing supply chain challenges, the impacts of which may adversely impact our reputation in 21 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS N I S OURCE I NC . several areas as described elsewhere in these risk factors. We are also subject to adverse publicity related to actual or perceived environmental impacts. If customers, legislators, or regulators have or develop a negative opinion of us, this could result in less favorable legislative and regulatory outcomes or increased regulatory oversight, increased litigation and negative public perception. The adverse publicity and investigations we experienced as a result of the Greater Lawrence Incident may have an ongoing negative impact on the public’s perception of us.  It is difficult to predict the ultimate impact of this adverse publicity. The foregoing may have continuing adverse effects on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. We have continued financial liabilities related to the sale of the Massachusetts Business. On October 9, 2020, we completed the sale of the Massachusetts Business to Eversource. The sale of the Massachusetts Business involves separation or carve-out activities and costs and possible disputes with Eversource. We have continued financial liabilities with respect to the business conducted by Columbia of Massachusetts, as we retain responsibility for, and have agreed to indemnify Eversource against, certain liabilities. This responsibility includes liabilities for any fines arising out of the Greater Lawrence Incident and liabilities of Columbia of Massachusetts or its affiliates pursuant to civil claims for injury of persons or damage to property to the extent such injury or damage occurred prior to the closing in connection with the Massachusetts Business. It may also be difficult to determine whether a claim from a third party is our responsibility, and we may expend substantial resources trying to determine whether we or Eversource has responsibility for the claim. The impacts of natural disasters, acts of terrorism, acts of war, civil unrest, cyber-attacks, accidents, public health emergencies or other catastrophic events may disrupt operations and reduce the ability to service customers. A disruption or failure of natural gas distribution systems, or within electric generation, transmission or distribution systems, in the event of a major hurricane, tornado, terrorist attack, acts of war, civil unrest, cyber-attack (as further detailed above), accident, public health emergency, pandemic, or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other critical functions. We have experienced disruptions in the past from hurricanes and tornadoes and other events of this nature. Also, companies in our industry face a heightened risk of exposure to acts of terrorism and vandalism. Our electric and gas physical infrastructure may be targets of physical security threats or terrorist activities that could disrupt our operations. We have increased security given the current environment and may be required by regulators or by the future threat environment to make investments in security that we cannot currently predict. In addition, the supply chain constraints that we are experiencing could impact timely restoration of services.  The occurrence of such events could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.  In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. The physical impacts of climate change and the transition to a lower carbon future are impacting our business. Climate change is exacerbating the risks to our physical infrastructure by increasing the frequency of extreme weather, including heat stresses to power lines and storms and floods that damage infrastructure. In addition, climate change is likely to cause lake and river level changes that affect the manner in which services are currently provided and droughts or other stresses on water used to supply services, and other extreme weather conditions. We have adapted and will continue to evolve our infrastructure and operations to meet current and future needs of our stakeholders. With higher frequency of these and possibly other extreme weather events it may become more costly for us to safely and reliably deliver certain products and services to our customers. Some of these costs may not be recovered.  To the extent that we are unable to recover those costs, or if higher rates resulting from recovery of such costs result in reduced demand for services, our future financial results may be adversely impacted. Further, as the intensity and frequency of significant weather events increases, it may impact our ability to secure cost-efficient insurance as described above. Our strategy may be impacted by policy and legal, technology, market, and reputational risks and opportunities that are associated with the transition to a lower-carbon economy, as disclosed in other risk factors in this section.  As a result of increased awareness regarding climate change, coupled with adverse economic conditions, availability of alternative energy sources, including private solar, microturbines, fuel cells, energy-efficient buildings and energy storage devices, and new regulations restricting emissions, including potential regulations of methane emissions, some consumers and companies may use less energy, meet their own energy needs through alternative energy sources or avoid expansions of their facilities, including natural gas facilities, resulting in less demand for our services. As these technologies become a more cost-competitive option over time, whether through cost effectiveness or government incentives and subsidies, certain customers may choose to meet their own energy needs and subsequently decrease usage of our systems and services, which may result in, among other things, our generating facilities becoming less competitive and economical. Further, evolving investor sentiment related to the use of fossil fuels and initiatives to restrict continued production of fossil fuels could result in a significant impact on our electric generation and natural gas businesses in the future. Conversely, demand for our services may increase as a result of 22 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS N I S OURCE I NC . customer changes in response to climate change. For example, as the utilization of electric vehicles increases, demand for electricity may increase, resulting in increased usage of our systems and services. Any negative opinions with respect to our environmental practices or our ability to meet the challenges posed by climate change formed by regulators, customers, investors or legislators could harm our reputation and change the perceived value of our products and services. Changes in policy to combat climate change, and technology advancement, each of which can also accelerate the implications of a transition to a lower carbon economy, may materially adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows . We are subject to operational and financial risks and liabilities associated with the implementation and efforts to achieve our carbon emission reduction goals. NIPSCO’s electric generation transition is a key element of our goal to achieve a 90% reduction in our Scope 1 GHG emissions by 2030 compared with 2005 levels. Our analysis and plan for execution, which is outlined in the NIPSCO 2021 Integrated Resource Plan, requires us to make a number of assumptions. These goals and underlying assumptions involve risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees. Should one or more of our underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results and ability to achieve our emissions goal could differ materially from our expectations. Certain of the assumptions that could impact our ability to meet our emissions goal include, but are not limited to: the accuracy of current emission measurements, service territory size and capacity needs remaining in line with expectations; regulatory approval; impacts of future environmental regulations or legislation; impact of future GHG pricing regulations or legislation, including a future carbon tax or methane fee; price, availability and regulation of carbon offsets; price of fuel, such as natural gas; cost of energy generation technologies, such as wind and solar, natural gas and storage solutions; adoption of alternative energy by the public, including adoption of electric vehicles; rate of technology innovation with regards to alternative energy resources; our ability to implement our modernization plans for our pipelines and facilities; the ability to complete and implement generation alternatives to NIPSCO’s coal generation and retirement dates of NIPSCO’s coal facilities by 2030; the ability to construct and/or permit new natural gas pipelines; the ability to procure resources needed to build at a reasonable cost, the lack of scarcity of resources and labor, project cancellations, construction delays or overruns and the ability to appropriately estimate costs of new generation; impact of any supply chain disruptions; and enhancement of energy efficiencies. Any negative opinions with respect to these goals or our environmental practices, including any inability to achieve, or a scaling back of these goals, formed by regulators, customers, investors or legislators could harm our reputation and have an adverse effect on our financial condition. FINANCIAL, ECONOMIC AND MARKET RISKS We have substantial indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial condition. Our business is capital intensive and we rely significantly on long-term debt to fund a portion of our capital expenditures and repay outstanding debt, and on short-term borrowings to fund a portion of day-to-day business operations. We had total consolidated indebtedness of $9,801.5 million outstanding as of December 31, 2021. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: • limit our ability to borrow additional funds or increase the cost of borrowing additional funds; • reduce the availability of cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the industries in which we operate; • lead parties with whom we do business to require additional credit support, such as letters of credit, in order for us to transact such business; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that are less leveraged; • increase vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and • limit our ability to execute on our growth strategy, which is dependent upon access to capital to fund our substantial infrastructure investment program. Some of our debt obligations contain financial covenants related to debt-to-capital ratios and cross-default provisions. Our failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of outstanding debt obligations. A drop in our credit ratings could adversely impact our cash flows, results of operation, financial condition and liquidity. 23 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS N I S OURCE I NC . The availability and cost of credit for our businesses may be greatly affected by credit ratings. The credit rating agencies periodically review our ratings, taking into account factors such as our capital structure, earnings profile, and, in 2020 and 2021, the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. We are committed to maintaining investment grade credit ratings; however, there is no assurance we will be able to do so in the future.  Our credit ratings could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, the circumstances warrant.  Any negative rating action could adversely affect our ability to access capital at rates and on terms that are attractive.  A negative rating action could also adversely impact our business relationships with suppliers and operating partners, who may be less willing to extend credit or offer us similarly favorable terms as secured in the past under such circumstances. Certain of our subsidiaries have agreements that contain “ratings triggers” that require increased collateral in the form of cash, a letter of credit or other forms of security for new and existing transactions if our credit ratings (including the standalone credit ratings of certain of our subsidiaries) are dropped below investment grade.  These agreements are primarily for insurance purposes and for the physical purchase or sale of gas or power.  As of December 31, 2021, the collateral requirement that would be required in the event of a downgrade below the ratings trigger levels would amount to approximately $56.2 million. In addition to agreements with ratings triggers, there are other agreements that contain “adequate assurance” or “material adverse change” provisions that could necessitate additional credit support such as letters of credit and cash collateral to transact business. If our or certain of our subsidiaries' credit ratings were downgraded, especially below investment grade, financing costs and the principal amount of borrowings would likely increase due to the additional risk of our debt and because certain counterparties may require additional credit support as described above. Such amounts may be material and could adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Losing investment grade credit ratings may also result in more restrictive covenants and reduced flexibility on repayment terms in debt issuances, lower share price and greater stockholder dilution from common equity issuances, in addition to reputational damage within the investment community. The global outbreak of the novel coronavirus and its variants (COVID-19) has adversely impacted and may continue to adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows. The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in widespread impacts on the global economy and financial markets and could lead to a prolonged reduction in economic activity, extended disruptions to supply chains and capital markets, and reduced labor availability and productivity. We continue to monitor how COVID-19 is affecting our workforce, customers, suppliers, operations, financial results and cash flow. The extent of the impact in the future will vary and depend on the duration and severity of the impact on the global, national and local economies. Our future operating results and liquidity may continue to be impacted by the pandemic, but the extent of the impact remains uncertain. Primarily in 2020, we experienced lower revenues, higher expenses for personal protective equipment and supplies, and higher bad debt expense as a consequence of the pandemic, which negatively impacted our results of operations. Although our revenues were higher in 2021 compared to 2020, we may continue to experience ongoing impact of the pandemic, which includes, but is not limited to: • Lower revenue and cash flow, resulting from the decrease in commercial and industrial gas and electric demand as businesses comply with operating restrictions and/or businesses experience negative economic impact from the pandemic, potentially offset by higher residential demand; • Lower revenue and cash flow in the event of the suspension of late payment and reconnection fees in some jurisdictions; • A decline in revenue due to an increase in customer attrition rates, as well as lower revenue growth if customer additions slow due to a prolonged economic downturn; • A continued increase in bad debt and a decrease in cash flows resulting from the suspension of shut-offs and the inability of our customers to pay for their gas and electric service due to job loss or other factors, partially offset by regulatory deferrals; • Lower revenues on a prolonged basis resulting from higher customer bankruptcies, predominately focused on commercial and industrial customers not able to sustain operations through any broader economic downturn; • A continued delay in cash flows as more customers utilize the more flexible payment plans we offer; and • An increase in internal labor costs from higher overtime. We also face the risk of not achieving operational compliance and/or customer requirements because of work restrictions or unavailable employees due to the pandemic.  For more information regarding the items above and additional items related to the pandemic that we are evaluating and monitoring, please see our discussion of these topics in Part II., Item 7. "Management 24 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS N I S OURCE I NC . Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Executive Summary - Introduction - COVID-19" in this report and in our future filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. To the extent the pandemic adversely affects our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other Risk Factors described herein. The duration and ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, results of operations and financial condition, including liquidity, capital and financing resources, will depend on numerous evolving factors and future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted at this time. Such factors and developments may include the geographic spread, severity and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic, including whether there are periods of increased COVID-19 cases; the further spread of the Delta variant, Omicron variant or the emergence of other new or more contagious variants that may render vaccines ineffective or less effective; disruption to our operations resulting from employee illnesses or any inability to attract, retain or motivate employees; the development, availability and administration of effective treatment or vaccines and the willingness of individuals to receive a vaccine or otherwise comply with various mandates; the extent and duration of the impact on the U.S. or global economy, including the pace and extent of recovery when the COVID-19 pandemic subsides; and the actions that have been or may be taken by various governmental authorities in response to the outbreak. Adverse economic and market conditions, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, increases in interest rates or changes in investor sentiment could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and liquidity. Deteriorating, sluggish or volatile economic conditions in our operating jurisdictions could adversely impact our ability to maintain or grow our customer base and collect revenues from customers, which could reduce our revenue or growth rate and increase operating costs. The continued spread of COVID-19 has resulted in widespread impacts on the global economy and financial markets and could lead to a prolonged reduction in economic activity, disruptions to supply chains and capital markets, and reduced labor availability and productivity. In connection with the pandemic, certain state regulatory commissions instituted disconnection moratoriums and the suspension of collection of late payment fees, deposits and reconnection fees, which impacted our ability to pursue our standard credit risk mitigation practices. Following the issuance of these moratoriums, certain of our regulated operations have been authorized to record a regulatory asset for bad debt expense above levels currently in rates. We have reinstated our common credit mitigation practices as moratoriums have expired, but it is possible that such moratoriums will be reinstated as the pandemic continues. In addition, the pandemic has impacted our physical business operations, resulting in delays in conducting certain residential work and additional costs required to comply with pandemic-related health and safety protocols. Further, we rely on access to the capital markets to finance our liquidity and long-term capital requirements, including expenditures for our utility infrastructure and to comply with future regulatory requirements, to the extent not satisfied by the cash flow generated by our operations. We have historically relied on long-term debt and on the issuance of equity securities to fund a portion of our capital expenditures and repay outstanding debt, and on short-term borrowings to fund a portion of day-to-day business operations. Successful implementation of our long-term business strategies, including capital investment, is dependent upon our ability to access the capital and credit markets, including the banking and commercial paper markets, on competitive terms and rates. An economic downturn or uncertainty, market turmoil, changes in interest rates, changes in tax policy, challenges faced by financial institutions, changes in our credit ratings, or a change in investor sentiment toward us or the utilities industry generally could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital or refinance debt. For example, because NIPSCO’s current generating facilities substantially rely on coal for its operations, certain financial institutions may choose not to participate in our financing arrangements.  In addition, large institutional investors may choose to sell or choose not to purchase our stock due to environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) concerns or concerns regarding renewable energy supply chain challenges.  Reduced access to capital markets, increased borrowing costs, and/or lower equity valuation levels could reduce future earnings per share and cash flows.  Refer to Note 15, “Long-Term Debt,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to outstanding long-term debt and maturities of that debt. In addition, any rise in interest rates may lead to higher borrowing costs, which may adversely impact reported earnings, cost of capital and capital holdings. If, in the future, we face limits to the credit and capital markets or experience significant increases in the cost of capital or are unable to access the capital markets, it could limit our ability to implement, or increase the costs of implementing, our business plan, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and liquidity. 25 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS N I S OURCE I NC . Most of our revenues are subject to economic regulation and are exposed to the impact of regulatory rate reviews and proceedings. Most of our revenues are subject to economic regulation at either the federal or state level. As such, the revenues generated by us are subject to regulatory review by the applicable federal or state authority. These rate reviews determine the rates charged to customers and directly impact revenues. Our financial results are dependent on frequent regulatory proceedings in order to ensure timely recovery of costs and investments. As described in more detail in the risk factor below, the outcomes of these proceedings are uncertain, potentially lengthy and could be influenced by many factors, some of which may be outside of our control, including the cost of providing service, the necessity of expenditures, the quality of service, regulatory interpretations, customer intervention, economic conditions and the political environment.  Further, the rate orders are subject to appeal, which creates additional uncertainty as to the rates that will ultimately be allowed to be charged for services. The actions of regulators and legislators could result in outcomes that may adversely affect our earnings and liquidity. The rates that our electric and natural gas companies charge their customers are determined by their state regulatory commissions and by the FERC. These commissions also regulate the companies' accounting, operations, the issuance of certain securities and certain other matters. The FERC also regulates the transmission of electric energy, the sale of electric energy at wholesale, accounting, issuance of certain securities and certain other matters, including reliability standards through the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC). Under state and federal law, our electric and natural gas companies are entitled to charge rates that are sufficient to allow them an opportunity to recover their prudently incurred operating and capital costs and a reasonable rate of return on invested capital, to attract needed capital and maintain their financial integrity, while also protecting relevant public interests. Our electric and natural gas companies are required to engage in regulatory approval proceedings as a part of the process of establishing the terms and rates for their respective services. Each of these companies prepares and submits periodic rate filings with their respective regulatory commissions for review and approval, which allows for various entities to challenge our current or future rates, structures or mechanisms and could alter or limit the rates we are allowed to charge our customers. These proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including governmental bodies and officials, consumer advocacy groups, and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns. Any change in rates, including changes in allowed rate of return, are subject to regulatory approval proceedings that can be contentious, lengthy, and subject to appeal. This may lead to uncertainty as to the ultimate result of those proceedings. Established rates are also subject to subsequent prudency reviews by state regulators, whereby various portions of rates could be adjusted, subject to refund or disallowed, including cost recovery mechanisms. The ultimate outcome and timing of regulatory rate proceedings could have a significant effect on our ability to recover costs or earn an adequate return. Adverse decisions in our proceedings could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. There can be no assurance that regulators will approve the recovery of all costs incurred by our electric and natural gas companies, including costs for construction, operation and maintenance, and compliance with current and future changes in environmental, federal pipeline safety, critical infrastructure and cyber security laws and regulations. Challenges arise with state regulators on inflationary pricing for electric and gas materials and potential price increases, ensuring that updated pricing for electric and gas materials is included in plans and regulatory assumptions, and ensuring there is a regulatory recovery model for emergency inventory stock. There is debate among state regulators and other stakeholders over how to transition to a decarbonized economy and prudency arguments relative to investing in natural gas assets when the depreciable life of the assets may be shortened due to electrification. The inability to recover a significant amount of operating costs could have an adverse effect on a company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Changes to rates may occur at times different from when costs are incurred. Additionally, catastrophic events at other utilities could result in our regulators and legislators imposing additional requirements that may lead to additional costs for the companies. In addition to the risk of disallowance of incurred costs, regulators may also impose downward adjustments in a company’s allowed ROE as well as assess penalties and fines. Regulators may reduce ROE to mitigate potential customer bill increases due to items unrelated to capital investments such as potential increases in taxes and incremental costs related to COVID-19. These actions would have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our electric business is subject to mandatory reliability and critical infrastructure protection standards established by NERC and enforced by the FERC. The critical infrastructure protection standards focus on controlling access to critical physical and cybersecurity assets. Compliance with the mandatory reliability standards could subject our electric utilities to higher operating costs. In addition, compliance with PHMSA regulations could subject our gas utilities to higher operating costs.  If our 26 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS N I S OURCE I NC . businesses are found to be in noncompliance, we could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties, or damage to our reputation. Changes in tax laws, as well as the potential tax effects of business decisions, could negatively impact our business, results of operations (including our expected project returns from our planned renewable energy projects), financial condition and cash flows. Our business operations are subject to economic conditions in certain industries. Business operations throughout our service territories have been and may continue to be adversely affected by economic events at the national and local level where our businesses operate. In particular, sales to large industrial customers, such as those in the steel, oil refining, industrial gas and related industries, are impacted by economic downturns, including the downturn resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic; geographic or technological shifts in production or production methods; and consumer demand for environmentally friendly products and practices. The U.S. manufacturing industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, inflation and increasing costs, and fluctuating demand for its products. In addition, our results of operations are negatively impacted by lower revenues resulting from higher bankruptcies, predominately focused on commercial and industrial customers not able to sustain operations through the economic disruptions related to the pandemic. We are exposed to risk that customers will not remit payment for delivered energy or services, and that suppliers or counterparties will not perform under various financial or operating agreements. Our extension of credit is governed by a Corporate Credit Risk Policy, involves considerable judgment by our employees and is based on an evaluation of a customer or counterparty’s financial condition, credit history and other factors. We monitor our credit risk exposure by obtaining credit reports and updated financial information for customers and suppliers, and by evaluating the financial status of our banking partners and other counterparties by reference to market-based metrics such as credit default swap pricing levels, and to traditional credit ratings provided by the major credit rating agencies. Adverse economic conditions result in an increase in defaults by customers, suppliers and counterparties. As stated above, in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic, state regulatory moratoriums, which have now expired, impacted our ability to pursue our standard credit risk mitigation practices. We are a holding company and are dependent on cash generated by our subsidiaries to meet our debt obligations and pay dividends on our stock. We are a holding company and conduct our operations primarily through our subsidiaries, which are separate and distinct legal entities. Substantially all of our consolidated assets are held by our subsidiaries. Accordingly, our ability to meet our debt obligations or pay dividends on our common stock and preferred stock is largely dependent upon cash generated by these subsidiaries. In the event a major subsidiary is not able to pay dividends or transfer cash flows to us, our ability to service our debt obligations or pay dividends could be negatively affected. The trading prices for our Equity Units, initially consisting of Corporate Units, and related treasury units and Series C mandatory convertible preferred stock, are expected to be affected by, among other things, the trading prices of our common stock, the general level of interest rates and our credit quality. The trading prices of the Equity Units, initially consisting of Corporate Units, which are listed on the New York Stock Exchange, and the related treasury units and Series C mandatory convertible preferred stock in the secondary market, are expected to be affected by, among other things, the trading prices of our common stock, the general level of interest rates and our credit quality. It is impossible to predict whether the price of our common stock or interest rates will rise or fall. The price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in the future in response to many events or factors, including those discussed in the risk factors herein, many of which events and factors are beyond our control. Fluctuations in interest rates may give rise to arbitrage opportunities based upon changes in the relative value of the common stock underlying the purchase contracts and of the other components of the Equity Units. Any such arbitrage could, in turn, affect the trading prices of the Corporate Units, treasury units, mandatory convertible preferred stock and our common stock. The early settlement right triggered under certain circumstances and the supermajority rights of the mandatory convertible preferred stock following a fundamental change, could discourage a potential acquirer. The fundamental change early settlement right with respect to the purchase contracts triggered under certain circumstances by a fundamental change and the supermajority voting rights of the mandatory convertible preferred stock in connection with certain 27 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS N I S OURCE I NC . fundamental change transactions jointly could discourage a potential acquirer, including potential acquirers that would otherwise seek a transaction with us that would be attractive to our investors. Our Equity Units, initially consisting of Corporate Units, and related mandatory convertible preferred stock, and the issuance and sale of common stock in settlement of the purchase contracts and conversion of mandatory convertible preferred stock, may all adversely affect the market price of our common stock and will cause dilution to our stockholders. The market price of our common stock is likely to be influenced by our Equity Units, initially consisting of Corporate Units, and related mandatory convertible preferred stock. For example, the market price of our common stock could become more volatile and could be depressed by: • investors’ anticipation of the sale into the market of a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock issued upon settlement of the purchase contracts or conversion of our mandatory convertible preferred stock; • possible sales of our common stock by investors who view our Equity Units, initially consisting of Corporate Units, or related mandatory convertible preferred stock as a more attractive means of equity participation in us than owning shares of our common stock; and • hedging or arbitrage trading activity that may develop involving our Equity Units, initially consisting of Corporate Units, or related mandatory convertible preferred stock and our common stock. In addition, we cannot predict the effect that future issuances or sales of our common stock, if any, including those made upon the settlement of the purchase contracts or conversion of the mandatory convertible preferred stock, may have on the market price for our common stock. Our Equity Units, initially consisting of Corporate Units, and the issuance and sale of substantial amounts of common stock, including issuances and sales upon the settlement of the purchase contracts or conversion of the mandatory convertible preferred stock, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and will cause dilution to our stockholders. Capital market performance and other factors may decrease the value of benefit plan assets, which then could require significant additional funding and impact earnings. The performance of the capital markets affects the value of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. We have significant obligations in these areas and hold significant assets in these trusts as noted in Note 12, "Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield uncertain returns, which fall below our projected rates of return. A decline in the market value of assets may increase the funding requirements of the obligations under the defined benefit pension plan. Additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under these benefit plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, which could potentially increase funding requirements. Further, the funding requirements of the obligations related to these benefits plans may increase due to changes in governmental regulations and participant demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or longer life expectancy assumptions, as well as voluntary early retirements. In addition, lower asset returns result in increased expenses. Ultimately, significant funding requirements and increased pension or other postretirement benefit plan expense could negatively impact our results of operations and financial position. We have significant goodwill. Any future impairments of goodwill could result in a significant charge to earnings in a future period and negatively impact our compliance with certain covenants under financing agreements. In accordance with GAAP, we test goodwill for impairment at least annually and review our definite-lived intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate its fair value might be below its carrying value. Goodwill is also tested for impairment when factors, examples of which include reduced cash flow estimates, a sustained decline in stock price or market capitalization below book value, indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. A significant charge in the future could impact the capitalization ratio covenant under certain financing agreements. We are subject to a financial covenant under our revolving credit facility, which requires us to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 70%. As of December 31, 2021, the ratio was 57.4 %. 28 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS N I S OURCE I NC . Changes in the method for determining LIBOR and the potential replacement of the LIBOR benchmark interest rate could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Some of our indebtedness bears interest at a variable rate based on LIBOR. From time to time, we also enter into hedging instruments to manage our exposure to fluctuations in the LIBOR benchmark interest rate. In addition, these hedging instruments, as well as hedging instruments that our subsidiaries use for hedging natural gas price and basis risk, rely on LIBOR-based rates to calculate interest accrued on certain payments that may be required to be made under these agreements, such as late payments or interest accrued if any cash collateral should be held by a counterparty. Any changes announced by regulators in the method pursuant to which the LIBOR rates are determined may result in a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in the reported LIBOR rates. If that were to occur, the level of interest payments we incur may change. In July 2017, the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”), which regulates LIBOR, announced that the FCA intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021. In November 2020, the Board of Governors of the U.S. Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Office of the U.S. Comptroller of the Currency collectively issued a statement encouraging banks to stop entering into financial contracts that use LIBOR as a reference rate as soon as possible, and no later than December 31, 2021. In March 2021, the FCA announced that 1-week and 2‑month U.S. Dollar (“USD”) LIBOR will cease publication after December 31, 2021, and that the remaining USD LIBOR tenors will cease publication after June 30, 2023. It is not possible to predict the effect of these changes, other reforms or the establishment of alternative reference rates in the United Kingdom or elsewhere. In the United States, efforts to identify a set of alternative U.S. dollar reference interest rates include proposals by the Alternative Reference Rates Committee of the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The Alternative Reference Rates Committee has proposed the Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR") as its recommended alternative to LIBOR, and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York began publishing SOFR rates in April 2018. On February 18, 2022, we entered into an amended and restated revolving credit agreement which, among other things, amended the interest rate provisions applicable to borrowings under this agreement to utilize SOFR as the reference rate, rather than LIBOR. SOFR is intended to be a broad measure of the cost of borrowing cash overnight that is collateralized by U.S. Treasury securities.  However, because SOFR is a broad U.S. Treasury repurchase agreement financing rate that represents overnight secured funding transactions, it differs fundamentally from LIBOR. Because of these and other differences, there is no assurance that SOFR will perform in the same way as LIBOR would have performed at any time, and there is no guarantee that it is a comparable substitute for LIBOR. In addition, although certain of our LIBOR based obligations provide for alternative methods of calculating the interest rate payable on certain of our obligations if LIBOR is not reported, uncertainty as to the extent and manner of future changes may result in interest rates and/or payments that are higher than, lower than or that do not otherwise correlate over time with, the interest rates or payments that would have been made on our obligations if a LIBOR-based rate was available in its current form. LITIGATION, REGULATORY AND LEGISLATIVE RISKS The outcome of legal and regulatory proceedings, investigations, inquiries, claims and litigation related to our business operations may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or liquidity. We are involved in legal and regulatory proceedings, investigations, inquiries, claims and litigation in connection with our business operations, including those related to the Greater Lawrence Incident, the most significant of which are summarized in Note 19, “Other Commitments and Contingencies,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our insurance does not cover all costs and expenses that we have incurred relating to the Greater Lawrence Incident, and may not fully cover incidents that could occur in the future. Due to the inherent uncertainty of the outcomes of such matters, there can be no assurance that the resolution of any particular claim or proceeding would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or liquidity. The Greater Lawrence Incident has materially adversely affected and may continue to materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In connection with the Greater Lawrence Incident, we have incurred and will incur various costs and expenses.  While we have recovered the full amount of our liability insurance coverage available under our policies, total expenses related to the incident exceeded such amount. Expenses in excess of our liability insurance coverage have materially adversely affected and may continue to materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. We may also incur additional costs associated with the Greater Lawrence Incident, beyond the amount currently anticipated, including in connection with civil litigation. Further, state or federal legislation may be enacted that would require us to incur additional costs by mandating various changes, including changes to our operating practice standards for natural gas distribution operations and safety. In 29 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS N I S OURCE I NC . addition, if it is determined in other matters that we did not comply with applicable statutes, regulations or rules in connection with the operations or maintenance of our natural gas system, and we are ordered to pay additional amounts in penalties, or other amounts, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Our settlement with the U.S. Attorney’s Office in respect of federal charges in connection with the Greater Lawrence Incident may expose us to further penalties, liabilities and private litigation, and may impact our operations. On February 26, 2020, the Company entered into a DPA and Columbia of Massachusetts entered into a plea agreement with the U.S. Attorney’s Office to resolve the U.S. Attorney’s Office’s investigation relating to the Greater Lawrence Incident, which was subsequently approved by the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts (the "Court").  The agreements impose various compliance and remedial obligations on the Company and Columbia of Massachusetts.  Failure to comply with the terms of these agreements could result in further enforcement action by the U.S. Attorney’s Office, expose the Company and Columbia of Massachusetts to penalties, financial or otherwise, and subject the Company to further private litigation, each of which could impact our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our businesses are subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations, tariffs and policies. We could be materially adversely affected if we fail to comply with such laws, regulations, tariffs and policies or with any changes in or new interpretations of such laws, regulations, tariffs and policies. Our businesses are subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations, tariffs and policies, including, but not limited to, those relating to natural gas pipeline safety, employee safety, the environment and our energy infrastructure. In particular, we are subject to significant federal, state and local regulations applicable to utility companies, including regulations by the various utility commissions in the states where we serve customers. These regulations significantly influence our operating environment, may affect our ability to recover costs from utility customers, and cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs. Existing laws, regulations, tariffs and policies may be revised or become subject to new interpretations, and new laws, regulations, tariffs and policies may be adopted or become applicable to us and our operations. In some cases, compliance with new laws, regulations, tariffs and policies increases our costs. Supply chain constraints may challenge our ability to remain in compliance if we cannot obtain the materials that we need to operate our business in a compliant manner. If we fail to comply with laws, regulations and tariffs applicable to us or with any changes in or new interpretations of such laws, regulations, tariffs or policies, our financial condition, results of operations, regulatory outcomes and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. Our businesses are regulated under numerous environmental laws.  The cost of compliance with these laws, and changes to or additions to, or reinterpretations of the laws, could be significant.  Liability from the failure to comply with existing or changed laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our businesses are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and rules that regulate, among other things, air emissions, water usage and discharges, GHG and waste products such as coal combustion residuals. Compliance with these legal obligations require us to make expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, remediation, environmental monitoring, emissions fees, and permits at many of our facilities. These expenditures are significant, and we expect that they will continue to be significant in the future. Furthermore, if we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or are found to have caused damage to the environment or persons, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and damages against us, injunctions to remedy the failure or harm, and the inability to operate facilities as designed. Existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised and new laws and regulations seeking to change environmental regulation of the energy industry may be adopted or become applicable to us, with an increasing focus on both coal and natural gas.  Revised or additional laws and regulations may result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on our facilities or increased compliance costs, which may not be fully recoverable from customers through regulated rates and could, therefore, impact our financial position, financial results and cash flow. Moreover, such costs could materially affect the continued economic viability of one or more of our facilities. An area of significant uncertainty and risk are the laws concerning emission of GHG. While we continue to reduce GHG emissions through the retirement of coal-fired electric generation, increased sourcing of renewable energy, priority pipeline replacement, energy efficiency programs, and leak detection and repair, GHG emissions are currently an expected aspect of the electric and natural gas business. Revised or additional future GHG legislation and/or regulation related to the generation of electricity or the extraction, production, distribution, transmission, storage and end use of natural gas could materially impact our gas supply, financial position, financial results and cash flows. 30 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS N I S OURCE I NC . Even in instances where legal and regulatory requirements are already known or anticipated, the original cost estimates for environmental improvements, remediation of past environmental impact, or pollution reduction strategies and equipment can differ materially from the amount ultimately expended. The actual future expenditures depend on many factors, including the nature and extent of impact, the method of improvement, the cost of raw materials, contractor costs, and requirements established by environmental authorities.  Changes in costs and the ability to recover under regulatory mechanisms could affect our financial position, financial results and cash flows. Changes in taxation and the ability to quantify such changes as well as challenges to tax positions could adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to taxation by the various taxing authorities at the federal, state and local levels where we do business. Legislation or regulation which could affect our tax burden could be enacted by any of these governmental authorities. For example, the TCJA includes numerous provisions that affect businesses, including changes to U.S. corporate tax rates, business-related exclusions, deductions and credits. The outcome of regulatory proceedings regarding the extent to which the effect of a change in corporate tax rate will impact customers and the time period over which the impact will occur could significantly impact future earnings and cash flows. Separately, a challenge by a taxing authority, changes in taxing authorities’ administrative interpretations, decisions, policies and positions, our ability to utilize tax benefits such as carryforwards or tax credits, or a deviation from other tax-related assumptions may cause actual financial results to deviate from previous estimates. 31

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

N I S OURCE I NC . EXECUTIVE SUMMARY This Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Management's Discussion) analyzes our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and those of our subsidiaries. It also includes management’s analysis of past financial results and certain potential factors that may affect future results, potential future risks and approaches that may be used to manage those risks. See "Note regarding forward-looking statements" at the beginning of this report for a list of factors that may cause results to differ materially. Management's Discussion is designed to provide an understanding of our operations and financial performance and should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual report. We are an energy holding company under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 whose subsidiaries are fully regulated natural gas and electric utility companies serving customers in six states. We generate substantially all of our operating income through these rate-regulated businesses, which are summarized for financial reporting purposes into two primary reportable segments: Gas Distribution Operations and Electric Operations. Refer to the "Business" section under Item 1 of this annual report and Note 23, "Segments of Business," in the Notes to  Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our regulated utility business segments. Our goal is to develop strategies that benefit all stakeholders as we (i) embark on long-term infrastructure investment and safety programs to better serve our customers, (ii) align our tariff structures with our cost structure, and (iii) address changing customer conservation patterns. These strategies focus on improving safety and reliability, enhancing customer service, ensuring customer affordability and reducing emissions while generating sustainable returns. The safety of our customers, communities and employees remains our top priority. The SMS is an established operating model within NiSource. With the continued support and advice from our Quality Review Board (a panel of third parties with safety operations expertise engaged by management to advise on safety matters), we are continuing to mature our SMS processes, capabilities and talent as we collaborate within and across industries to enhance safety and reduce operational risk. Additionally, we continue to pursue regulatory and legislative initiatives that will allow residential customers not currently on our system to obtain gas service in a cost effective manner. 2021 Overview: In 2021, we made significant progress towards our strategic and financial goals and objectives. We commenced commercial operations of Indiana Crossroads Wind, adding 302 MW of renewable generating capacity to our Electric Operations. Additionally, we broke ground on two solar projects and received regulatory approval to complete another nine renewable energy projects by the end of 2023. We filed base rate cases in five states, completing three cases in 2021 with balanced outcomes supporting all stakeholders. We also invested $1.3 billion in infrastructure modernization to enhance safe, reliable service, including replacement of 390 miles of priority pipe, 54 miles of underground cable and 2,857 electric poles. Through the issuance of our Equity Units, we significantly de-risked our financing strategy and supported our investment grade credit rating. We made advancements on key strategic initiatives, described in further detail below. Your Energy, Your Future: Our plan to replace our coal generation capacity by the end of 2028 with primarily renewable resources is well underway. As of December 31, 2021, we have executed and received IURC approval for BTAs and PPAs with a combined nameplate capacity of 1,950 MW and 1,380 MW, respectively, under the plan. On October 1, 2021, we completed 35 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) N I S OURCE I NC . the retirement of R.M. Schahfer Generating Station Units 14 and 15. On October 21, 2021, we announced the Preferred Energy Resource Plan associated with our 2021 Integrated Resource Plan, which refines the timeline to retire the Michigan City Generating Station to occur between 2026 and 2028. The plan calls for the replacement of the retiring units with a diverse portfolio of resources including demand side management resources, incremental solar, stand-alone energy storage and upgrades to existing facilities at the Sugar Creek Generating Station, among other steps. Additionally, the plan calls for a natural gas peaking unit to replace existing vintage gas peaking units at the R.M. Schahfer Generating Station to support system reliability and resiliency, as well as upgrades to the transmission system to enhance our electric generation transition. The planned retirement of the two vintage gas peaking units at the R.M. Schahfer Generating Station is expected to occur between 2025 and 2028. Final retirement dates for these units, as well as Michigan City, will be subject to MISO approval. We filed our 2021 Integrated Resource Plan with the IURC in November 2021. In December 2021, the formation of the Indiana Crossroads Wind joint venture, one of our previously executed BTAs, was completed, and began commercial operations. For additional information, see Note 4, "Variable Interest Entities," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and "Results and Discussion of Segment Operations - Electric Operations," in this Management's Discussion. NiSource Next: In 2020, we launched a comprehensive, multi-year program designed to deliver long-term safety, sustainable capability enhancements and costs optimization improvements. This program advances the high priority we place on safety and risk mitigation, further enables our SMS, and enhances the customer experience. NiSource Next is designed to leverage our current scale, utilize technology,  define clear roles and accountability with our leaders and employees, and standardize our processes to focus on operational rigor, quality management and continuous improvement. In 2021, we optimized our workforce by redefining roles to sharpen our focus on safety and risk mitigation, operational rigor, and adherence to process and procedures, as well as implemented consistent span of control for leadership to increase individual responsibility and clear accountability. Additionally, we began to make advancements across our operations to improve safety, operational efficiencies, and customer satisfaction through continued standardization of work processes, the implementation of new mobile technology to provide real-time access to information while serving our customers and enhanced customer self-service options to better meet customer expectations. These enhancements set the foundation for 2022 and beyond, to continue improving safety and customer experience through more significant technology investments. COVID-19: The safety of our employees and customers, while providing essential services during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, is paramount. We continue to take a proactive, coordinated approach intended to prevent, mitigate and respond to COVID-19 by utilizing our Incident Command System (ICS). The ICS includes members of our executive council, a medical review professional, and members of functional teams from across our company. The ICS monitors state-by-state conditions and determines steps to conduct our operations safely for employees and customers. We have implemented procedures designed to protect our employees who work in the field and who continue to work in operational and corporate facilities, including social distancing and wearing face coverings. We have also implemented work-from-home policies and practices. We continue to employ physical and cybersecurity measures to ensure that our operational and support systems remain functional. Our actions to date have mitigated the spread of COVID-19 amongst our employees and principal field contractors. We are also continuously evaluating changes to CDC guidance, and updating our safety measures accordingly, in order to ensure employee and customer safety during this pandemic. We are following federal, state, and local laws, regulations and guidelines related to the COVID-19 vaccinations. Since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have been helping our customers navigate this challenging time. We plan to continue our payment assistance programs and customer education and awareness of energy assistance programs such as the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) to help customers deal with the impact of the pandemic. Regulatory deferrals for certain costs have been allowed by all of our state regulatory commissions. We continue to monitor how COVID-19 is affecting our workforce, customers, suppliers, operations, financial results and cash flow. The extent of the impact in the future will vary and depend on the duration and severity of the impact on the global, national and local economies.  For information on the impacts of COVID-19 for the year ended December 31, 2021, the state-specific suspension of disconnections, and COVID-19 regulatory filings see Note 3, ''Revenue Recognition,'' and Note 9, ''Regulatory Matters,'' in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Economic Environment: We are monitoring risks related to increasing order and delivery lead times for construction and other materials, increasing risk of unavailability of materials due to global shortages in raw materials, and risk of decreased construction labor productivity in the event of disruptions in the availability of materials. We are also seeing increasing prices 36 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) N I S OURCE I NC . associated with certain materials and supplies. To the extent that delays occur or our costs increase, our business operations, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We are faced with increased competition for employee and contractor talent in the current labor market, which has resulted in increased costs to attract and retain talent. We are ensuring that we use all internal human capital programs (development, leadership enablement programs, succession, performance management) to promote retention of our current employees along with having competitive and attractive appeal for potential recruits. With a focus on workforce planning, we are creating flexible work arrangements where we can, and being anticipatory in evaluating our talent footprint for the future to ensure we have the right people, in the right role, and at the right time. To the extent we are unable to execute on our workforce planning initiatives and experience increased employee and contractor costs, our business operations, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We have also seen an increase in gas costs that we expect to have an effect on customer bills.  For the year ended December 31, 2021, we have not seen this increase have a material impact on our results of operations. For more information on our commodity price impacts, see " - Results and Discussion of Segment Operations - Gas Distribution Operations," and " - Market Risk Disclosures." For more information on global availability of materials for our renewable projects, see " - Results and Discussion of Segment Operations - Electric Operations - Electric Supply and Generation Transition." Summary of Consolidated Financial Results A summary of our consolidated financial results for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, are presented below: The majority of the costs of energy in both segments are tracked costs that are passed through directly to the customer, resulting in an equal and offsetting amount reflected in operating revenues. The increase in net income available to common shareholders during 2021 was primarily due to higher operating income for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020. Operating revenues were higher due to favorable rate case outcomes in 2021. Operating expenses were lower as we did not have expenses associated with the Massachusetts business in 2021, and the loss on sale of the Massachusetts business was primarily incurred in 2020. For additional information on operating income variance drivers see "Results and Discussion of Segment Operations" for Gas and Electric Operations in this Management's Discussion. In addition, we recognized a favorable change in total other deductions, which was partially offset by an increase in income tax expense in 2021. See below for the primary drivers of this change. 37 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) N I S OURCE I NC . Other Deductions, Net The change in Other deductions, net in 2021 compared to 2020 is primarily driven by the loss on early extinguishment of debt in 2020, lower long-term and short-term debt interest in 2021 and higher non-service pension benefits partially offset by charitable contributions in 2021. The lower interest in 2021 was due to the early extinguishment of high rate debt in 2020 and lower balances on short-term debt during the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020. See Note 15, "Long-Term Debt," Note 16, "Short-Term Borrowings," and Note 12, "Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits," in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Income Taxes The increase in income tax expense in 2021 compared to the same period in 2020 is primarily attributable to higher pre-tax income, resulting from the items discussed above, state jurisdictional mix of pre-tax income in 2021 tax effected at statutory tax rates and increased amortization of excess deferred federal income taxes in 2021 compared to 2020.  These items are offset by decreased deferred tax expense recognized on the sale of the Columbia of Massachusetts' regulatory liability in 2020, established due to TCJA in 2017, that would have otherwise been recognized over the amortization period and one-time adjustments to deferred tax balances. Refer to Note 11, "Income Taxes," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on income taxes and the change in the effective tax rate. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION OF OPERATIONS Presentation of Segment Information Our operations are divided into two primary reportable segments: Gas Distribution Operations and Electric Operations. The remainder of our operations, which are not significant enough on a stand-alone basis to warrant treatment as an operating segment, are presented as "Corporate and Other" within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and primarily are comprised of interest expense on holding company debt, and unallocated corporate costs and activities. 38 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) N I S OURCE I NC . Gas Distribution Operations Financial and operational data for the Gas Distribution Operations segment for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, are presented below: 39 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) N I S OURCE I NC . Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Comparability of operation and maintenance expenses, depreciation and amortization, and other taxes may be impacted by regulatory, depreciation and tax trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs. The underlying reasons for changes in our operating revenues and expenses from 2021 to 2020 are presented in the respective tables below. Please refer to Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results and Discussion of Segment Operations - Gas Distribution Operations," of the Company's 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K for discussion of underlying reasons for changes in our operating revenues and expenses for 2020 versus 2019. Weather In general, we calculate the weather-related revenue variance based on changing customer demand driven by weather variance from normal heating degree days, net of weather normalization mechanisms. Our composite heating degree days reported do not directly correlate to the weather-related dollar impact on the results of Gas Distribution Operations. Heating degree days experienced during different times of the year or in different operating locations may have more or less impact on volume and dollars depending on when and where they occur. When the detailed results are combined for reporting, there may be weather-related dollar impacts on operations when there is not an apparent or significant change in our aggregated composite heating degree day comparison. Throughput The decrease in total volumes sold and transported in 2021 compared to 2020 of 54.5 MMDth is primarily attributable to the sale of the Massachusetts Business in 2020. Commodity Price Impact Cost of energy for the Gas Distribution Operations segment is principally comprised of the cost of natural gas used while providing transportation and distribution services to customers. All of our Gas Distribution Operations companies have state-approved recovery mechanisms that provide a means for full recovery of prudently incurred gas costs.  These are tracked costs that are passed through directly to the customer, and the gas costs included in revenues are matched with the gas cost expense recorded in the period. The difference is recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as under-recovered or over-recovered gas cost to be included in future customer billings. Therefore, increases in these tracked operating expenses are offset by increases in operating revenues and have essentially no impact on net income. Certain Gas Distribution Operations companies continue to offer choice opportunities, where customers can choose to purchase gas from a third-party supplier, through regulatory initiatives in their respective jurisdictions. 40 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) N I S OURCE I NC . Gas Distribution Operations (continued) Columbia of Massachusetts Asset Sale On October 9, 2020, we completed the sale of our Massachusetts Business. In March 2021, we reached an agreement with Eversource regarding the final purchase price, including net working capital adjustments. This resulted in a pre-tax loss for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 of $6.8 million and $412.4 million, respectively, based on asset and liability balances as of the close of the transaction on October 9, 2020, transaction costs and the final purchase price. The pre-tax loss is presented as "Loss on sale of assets, net" on the Statements of Consolidated Income (Loss). 41 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) N I S OURCE I NC . Electric Operations Financial and operational data for the Electric Operations segment for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, are presented below: 42 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) N I S OURCE I NC . Electric Operations (continued) Comparability of operation and maintenance expenses and depreciation and amortization may be impacted by regulatory and depreciation trackers that allow for the recovery in rates of certain costs. The underlying reasons for changes in our operating revenues and expenses from 2021 to 2020 are presented in the respective tables below. Please refer to Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results and Discussion of Segment Operations - Electric Operations," of the Company's 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K for discussion of underlying reasons for changes in our operating revenues and expenses for 2020 versus 2019. Weather In general, we calculate the weather-related revenue variance based on changing customer demand driven by weather variance from normal heating or cooling degree days. Our composite heating or cooling degree days reported do not directly correlate to the weather-related dollar impact on the results of Electric Operations. Heating or cooling degree days experienced during different times of the year may have more or less impact on volume and dollars depending on when they occur. When the detailed results are combined for reporting, there may be weather-related dollar impacts on operations when there is not an apparent or significant change in our aggregated composite heating or cooling degree day comparison. Sales The increase in total volumes sold in 2021 compared to 2020 of 1,027.8 GWh was primarily attributable to decreased usage by industrial and commercial customers during the second and third quarters of 2020 due to COVID-19. There was no significant variance during the first three months and last three months of 2021 compared to the same period in 2020. Commodity Price Impact Cost of energy for the Electric Operations segment is principally comprised of the cost of coal, natural gas purchased for internal generation of electricity at NIPSCO, and the cost of power purchased from third-party generators of electricity. NIPSCO has a state-approved recovery mechanism that provides a means for full recovery of prudently incurred fuel costs. The majority of these fuel costs are passed through directly to the customer, and the fuel costs included in operating revenues are matched with the fuel cost expense recorded in the period. The difference is recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as under-recovered or over-recovered fuel cost to be included in future customer billings. Therefore, increases in these tracked operating expenses are offset by increases in operating revenues and have essentially no impact on net income. 43 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) N I S OURCE I NC . Electric Operations (continued) NIPSCO's performance remains closely linked to the performance of the steel industry. NIPSCO’s MWh sales to steel-related industries accounted for approximately 48.1% and 45.9% of the total industrial MWh sales for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Electric Supply and Generation Transition NIPSCO continues to execute on an electric generation transition consistent with the preferred pathway from its 2018 Integrated Resource Plan, which outlines plans to retire its remaining coal-fired generation by 2028, to be replaced by lower-cost, reliable and cleaner options. We expect to have capital investment requirements of approximately $2.0 billion, primarily in 2022 and 2023, to replace the generation capacity of R.M. Schahfer Generating Station's coal-fired units. We retired R.M. Schahfer Generating Station Units 14 and 15 on October 1, 2021. The remaining two units are still scheduled to be retired in 2023. Refer to Note 6, "Property, Plant and Equipment," and Note 19-F, "Other Matters," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. The current replacement plan primarily includes renewable sources of energy, including wind, solar, and battery storage to be obtained through a combination of NIPSCO ownership and PPAs. NIPSCO has sold, and may in the future sell, renewable energy credits from this generation to third parties because this helps keep the cost of energy more affordable for our customers. NIPSCO has executed several PPAs to purchase 100% of the output from renewable generation facilities at a fixed price per MWh. Each facility supplying the energy will have an associated nameplate capacity, and payments under the PPAs will not begin until the associated generation facility is constructed by the owner/seller. NIPSCO has also executed several BTAs with developers to construct renewable generation facilities. Our current replacement program will be augmented by the Preferred Energy Resource Plan outlined in our 2021 Integrated Resource Plan. See "Executive Summary - Your Energy, Your Future" in this Management's Discussion for additional information. 44 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) N I S OURCE I NC . Electric Operations (continued) The following table summarizes the executed PPAs and BTAs from our generation transition: (1) Refer to Note 4, "Variable Interest Entities," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (2) Ownership of the facilities will be transferred to joint ventures whose members include NIPSCO and an unrelated tax equity partner. To date, we have been informed of potential delays related to renewable energy projects, including delays related to the delivery of solar panels, local permitting processes and obtaining interconnection rights. The potential delays to solar panel deliveries relate to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's June 24, 2021 Withhold Release Order on silica-based products made by Hoshine Silicon Industry Co., Ltd. For all affected projects, the sellers have informed us that they are working diligently to mitigate potential impacts and determine recovery plans, where applicable, in order to minimize potential delays or failures to perform under the agreements. We are also evaluating what, if any, additional flexibility can be afforded to the sellers under these agreements to aid in mitigating, or minimizing, potential delays or failures to perform under the agreements. We, along with the sellers of these generation projects, are continuously evaluating potential impacts to the targeted completion date of each project. At this time, the impact of any delays to materials, permitting or interconnection on the targeted completion dates has not been determined but could include a delay in the financial return of certain investments and timing of our electric generation transition. 45 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) N I S OURCE I NC . Liquidity and Capital Resources We continually evaluate the availability of adequate financing to fund our ongoing business operations, working capital and core safety and infrastructure investment programs. Our financing is sourced through cash flow from operations and the issuance of debt and/or equity. External debt financing is provided primarily through the issuance of long-term debt, accounts receivable securitization programs and our $1.5 billion commercial paper program, which is backstopped by our committed revolving credit facility with a total availability from third-party lenders of $1.85 billion. On February 18, 2022, we amended our revolving credit agreement to, among other things, extend its term to February 18, 2027. The commercial paper program and credit facility provide cost-effective, short-term financing until it can be replaced with a balance of long-term debt and equity financing that achieves our desired capital structure. We utilize an ATM equity program that allows us to issue and sell shares of our common stock up to an aggregate issuance of $750.0 million through December 31, 2023. As of December 31, 2021, the ATM program (including the impact of the forward sale agreement) had approximately $300.0 million of equity available for issuance. On April 19, 2021, we completed the sale of 8.625 million Equity Units, which provided net proceeds of $835.5 million , after underwriting and issuance costs. We intend to use the net proceeds from the offering for renewable generation investments and general corporate purposes, including additions to working capital and repayment of existing indebtedness. See Note 13, ''Equity,'' in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our ATM program and Equity Units. We believe these sources provide adequate capital to fund our operating activities and capital expenditures in 2022 and beyond. Greater Lawrence Incident. As discussed in Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors," and in Note 19, "Other Commitments and Contingencies," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, due to the inherent uncertainty of litigation, there can be no assurance that the outcome or resolution of any particular claim related to the Greater Lawrence Incident will not continue to have an adverse impact on our cash flows. Through income generated from operating activities, amounts available under the short-term revolving credit facility, and our ability to access capital markets, we believe we have adequate capital available to settle remaining anticipated claims associated with the Greater Lawrence Incident. Operating Activities Net cash from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $1,217.9 million, an increase of $113.9 million from 2020. This increase was primarily driven by a year over year decrease in net payments related to the Greater Lawrence Incident. During 2021, we paid $15.6 million compared to $226.7 million of payments during the same period in 2020. This was offset by increased cash outflows related to inventory balances primarily due to lower purchasing and prices in 2020 as well as decreased cash inflows related to the under collection of gas and fuel costs. Investing Activities Net cash used for investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $2,204.9 million, an increase of $1,325.8 million from 2020. In 2020, our investing outflows were lower by $1,115.9 million as a result of proceeds from the sale of the Massachusetts Business. Our current year investing activities were comprised of capital expenditures related to system growth and reliability and payments made to the developers of our renewable generation assets. 46 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) N I S OURCE I NC . Capital Expenditures. The table below reflects actual capital expenditures and certain other investing activities by segment for 2021. (1) Amounts differ from those presented in Note 23, "Segments of Business," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements due to the allocation of Corporate and Other Maintenance Costs to the Gas Distribution and Electric Operations segments. (2) Amounts differ from those presented on the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows primarily due to the capitalized portion of the Corporate Incentive Plan payout, inclusion of capital expenditures included in current liabilities and AFUDC Equity. We expect to make capital investments totaling approximately $10 billion during the 2021-2024 period, comprised of annual investments of $1.9 to $2.2 billion for growth, safety and reliability, and an additional $2.0 billion in renewable generation to replace the retiring coal-fired generation capacity of Schahfer Generating Station. The following graph illustrates, in billions, the midpoint of forecasted capital investments by expected recovery period for the next three years: Regulatory Capital Programs. We replace pipe and modernize our gas infrastructure to enhance safety and reliability by reducing leaks, which subsequently reduces GHG emissions. In 2021, we continued to move forward on core infrastructure and environmental investment programs supported by complementary regulatory and customer initiatives across all six states of our operating area. 47 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) N I S OURCE I NC . The following table describes the most recent vintage of our regulatory programs to recover infrastructure replacement and other federally mandated compliance investments currently in rates or pending commission approval: (1) Programs do not include any costs already included in base rates. (2) Columbia of Virginia filed its application to amend and extend its SAVE program with the Virginia SCC on August 12, 2021, requesting approval of a two-year SAVE program for calendar years 2022-2023 that includes incremental capital investments of $63.0 million and $72.0 million, respectively. The Commission approved the Company's application in its December 6, 2021 Order Approving  SAVE Rider. (3) On April 1, 2021, NIPSCO filed a notice with the IURC that it intended to terminate its current Electric TDSIC plan effective May 31, 2021. NIPSCO filed for a new electric TDSIC plan on June 1, 2021. An order approving NIPSCO's new electric TDSIC plan was received on December 28, 2021. NIPSCO filed the TDSIC-9 petition on September 28, 2021, and received an order on January 26, 2022 approving TDSIC-9. Refer to Note 9, "Regulatory Matters," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of regulatory developments during 2021. Financing Activities Common Stock, Preferred Stock and Equity Unit Sale. Refer to Note 13, ''Equity,'' in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on common stock, preferred stock and equity units activity. Short-term Debt and Sale of Trade Accounts Receivables. Refer to Note 16, "Short-Term Borrowings," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on short-term debt. Long-term Debt. Refer to Note 15, "Long-Term Debt," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on long-term debt. Non-controlling Interest . Refer to Note 4, "Variable Interest Entities," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on contributions from noncontrolling interest activity. 48 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) N I S OURCE I NC . Sources of Liquidity The following table displays our liquidity position as of December 31, 2021 and 2020: (1) Represents the lesser of the seasonal limit or maximum borrowings supportable by the underlying receivables. Our accounts receivable programs' utilization was zero as of December 31, 2021 and 2020. Debt Covenants . We are subject to a financial covenant under our revolving credit facility, which requires us to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 70%. As of December 31, 2021, the ratio was 57.4%. Credit Ratings . The credit rating agencies periodically review our ratings, taking into account factors such as our capital structure and earnings profile. The following table includes our and NIPSCO's credit ratings and ratings outlook as of December 31, 2021. There have been no changes to our credit ratings or outlooks since February 2020. A credit rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization. Certain of our subsidiaries have agreements that contain “ratings triggers” that require increased collateral if our credit ratings or the credit ratings of certain of our subsidiaries are below investment grade.  These agreements are primarily for insurance purposes and for the physical purchase or sale of power. As of December 31, 2021, a collateral requirement of  approximately $56.2 million would be required in the event of a downgrade below investment grade. In addition to agreements with ratings triggers, there are other agreements that contain “adequate assurance” or “material adverse change” provisions that could necessitate additional credit support such as letters of credit and cash collateral to transact business. Equity. Our authorized capital stock consists of 620,000,000 shares, $0.01 par value, of which 600,000,000 are common stock and 20,000,000 are preferred stock. As of December 31, 2021, 405,303,023 shares of common stock and 1,302,500 shares of preferred stock were outstanding. For more information regarding our common and preferred stock, see Note 13, "Equity," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Contractual Obligations, Cash Requirements and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have certain contractual obligations requiring payments at specified periods. Our material cash requirements are detailed below. We intend to use funds from the liquidity sources referenced above to meet these cash requirements. Our calculated estimated interest payments for long-term debt are based on the stated coupon and payment dates. For 2022, we project that we will be required to make interest payments of approximately $338.5 million, which includes $335.7 million of interest payments related to our long-term debt outstanding as of December 31, 2021. At December 31, 2021, we had $560.0 million in short-term borrowings outstanding. Refer to Note 15, "Long-Term Debt," and Note 16, "Short-Term Borrowings," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on long-term debt and short-term borrowings, respectively. 49 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) N I S OURCE I NC . During 2022 and 2023, we expect to make cash payments of $610.5 million and $366.0 million, respectively, related to pipeline service obligations including demand for gas transportation, gas storage and gas purchases. We expect to have capital investment requirements of approximately $2.0 billion, primarily in 2022 and 2023, to replace the generation capacity of all R.M. Schahfer Generating Station's coal-fired units. These investments include our portion of the joint venture obligations including construction milestone payments included in the agreements. Our expected payments include employer contributions to pension and other postretirement benefits plans expected to be made in 2022. Plan contributions beyond 2022 are dependent upon a number of factors, including actual returns on plan assets, which cannot be reliably estimated at this time. In 2022, we expect to make contributions of approximately $2.8 million to our pension plans and approximately $21.5 million to our postretirement medical and life plans. Refer to Note 12, "Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. We cannot reasonably estimate the settlement amounts or timing of cash flows related to certain of our long-term obligations classified as "Total Other Liabilities" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We also have obligations associated with income, property, gross receipts, franchise, sales and use, and various other taxes and expect to make tax payments of approximately $291.1 million in 2022. In addition, we have uncertain income tax positions for which we are unable to predict when the matters will be resolved.  Refer to Note 11, "Income Taxes," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. NIPSCO has executed several PPAs to purchase 100% of the output from renewable generation facilities at a fixed price per MWh. NIPSCO has also executed several BTAs with developers to construct renewable generation facilities. See Note 19-A, "Contractual Obligations," and Note 19-F, "Other Matters - Generation Transition," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In addition, we, along with certain of our subsidiaries, enter into various agreements providing financial or performance assurance to third parties on behalf of certain subsidiaries. Such agreements include guarantees and stand-by letters of credit. Refer to Note 19, "Other Commitments and Contingencies," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our contractual obligations over the next 5 years and thereafter and our off-balance sheet arrangements. Environmental and Safety Matters PHMSA Regulations On December 27, 2020, the Protecting Our Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety (PIPES) Act of 2020 was signed into law, reauthorizing funding for federal pipeline safety programs through September 30, 2023. Among other things, the PIPES Act requires that PHMSA revise the pipeline safety regulations to require operators to update, as needed, their existing distribution integrity management plans, emergency response plans, and operation and maintenance plans. The PIPES Act also requires PHMSA to adopt new requirements for managing records and updating, as necessary, existing district regulator stations to eliminate common modes of failure that can lead to overpressurization. PHMSA must also require that operators implement and utilize advanced leak detection technologies that enable the location and categorization of  all leaks that are hazardous, or potentially hazardous, to human safety or the environment. Natural gas companies, including NiSource and our subsidiaries, may see increased costs depending on how PHMSA implements the new mandates resulting from the PIPES Act. Climate Change Issues Increased frequency of severe and extreme weather events associated with climate change could materially impact our facilities, energy sales, and results of operations. We are unable to predict these events. However, we perform ongoing assessments of physical risk, including physical climate risk, to our business. More extreme and volatile temperatures, increased storm intensity and flooding, and more volatile precipitation leading to changes in lake and river levels are among the weather events that are most likely to impact our business. Efforts to mitigate these physical risks continue to be implemented on an ongoing basis. Future legislative and regulatory programs, at both the federal and state levels, could significantly limit allowed GHG emissions or impose a cost or tax on GHG emissions. Revised or additional future GHG legislation and/or regulation related to the generation of electricity or the extraction, production, distribution, transmission, storage and end use of natural gas could materially impact our gas supply, financial position, financial results and cash flows. We continue to monitor the implementation of final and proposed legislation and regulations, including the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, Build 50 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) N I S OURCE I NC . Back Better legislation and the EPA's proposed methane regulations for the oil and natural gas industry, but we cannot predict their final form or impact on our business at this time. On July 8, 2019, the EPA published the final ACE rule, which establishes emission guidelines for states to use when developing plans to limit carbon dioxide at coal-fired electric generating units based on heat rate improvement measures. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit vacated and remanded the rule on January 19, 2021. On October 29, 2021, the U.S. Supreme Court agreed to review the scope of the EPA’s authority to impose GHG emission standards under the Clean Air Act. We will continue to monitor this matter. In February 2021, the United States rejoined the Paris Agreement, an international treaty through which parties set nationally determined contributions to reduce GHG emissions, build resilience, and adapt to the impacts of climate change. Subsequently, the Biden Administration released a target for the United States to achieve a 50%-52% GHG reduction from 2005 levels by 2030, which supports the President's goals to create a carbon-free power sector by 2035 and net zero emissions economy no later than 2050. There are many pathways to reach these goals. In 2021, the Maryland Commission of Climate Change published a Building Energy Transition Plan. Policy recommendations included in this plan, such as the adoption of an all-electric construction code, are supported by the Commission but do not necessarily reflect current state policy. The report is intended to guide Maryland policy makers on decisions related to reducing GHG emissions from buildings in pursuit of achieving targets in Maryland's  2030 Greenhouse Gas Reduction Act Plan and the Commission's recommendation that Maryland achieve net-zero emissions by 2045. Columbia of Maryland will continue to monitor this matter, but we cannot predict its final impact on our business at this time. In response to these transition risks, we continue to actively implement our plans to reduce Scope 1 GHG emissions by 90% from 2005 levels by 2030, and to significantly reduce methane emissions, a component of Scope 1 GHG emissions.  These plans include the retirement of coal-fired electric generation, increased sourcing of renewable energy, and methane reductions from priority pipeline replacement, traditional leak detection and repair, and deployment of advanced leak detection and repair. As discussed above in this Management's Discussion within "Results and Discussion of Segment Operations - Electric Operations," NIPSCO continues to execute on an electric generation transition consistent with the preferred pathways identified in its 2018 and 2021 Integrated Resource Plans. We expect to have capital investment requirements of approximately $2.0 billion, primarily in 2022 and 2023, to replace the generation capacity previously supplied by R.M. Schahfer. We continue to expect to retire Michigan City Generating Station between 2026 and 2028. The preferred path of the 2021 Integrated Resource plan outlined new generation investments estimated to be up to $750 million, and we are currently evaluating future projects in line with the preferred path. Additionally, we are active in several efforts to accelerate the development and demonstration of lower-carbon energy technologies and resources, such as hydrogen and renewable natural gas (RNG), to enable affordable pathways to economy-wide decarbonization. Market Risk Disclosures Risk is an inherent part of our businesses. The extent to which we properly and effectively identify, assess, monitor and manage each of the various types of risk involved in our businesses is critical to our profitability. We seek to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures, the following principal market risks that are involved in our businesses: commodity price risk, interest rate risk and credit risk. We manage risk through a multi-faceted process with oversight by the Risk Management Committee that requires constant communication, judgment and knowledge of specialized products and markets. Our senior management takes an active role in the risk management process and has developed policies and procedures that require specific administrative and business functions to assist in the identification, assessment and control of various risks. These may include, but are not limited to market, operational, financial, compliance and strategic risk types. In recognition of the increasingly varied and complex nature of the energy business, our risk management process, policies and procedures continue to evolve and are subject to ongoing review and modification. Commodity Price Risk Our Gas and Electric Operations have commodity price risk primarily related to the purchases of natural gas and power. To manage this market risk, our subsidiaries use derivatives, including commodity futures contracts, swaps, forwards and options. We do not participate in speculative energy trading activity. Commodity price risk resulting from derivative activities at our rate-regulated subsidiaries is limited and does not bear signification exposure to earnings risk, since regulations allow recovery of prudently incurred purchased power, fuel and gas 51 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) N I S OURCE I NC . costs through the rate-making process, including gains or losses on these derivative instruments. These changes are included in the GCA and FAC regulatory rate-recovery mechanisms. If these mechanisms were to be adjusted or eliminated, these subsidiaries may begin providing services without the benefit of the traditional rate-making process and may be more exposed to commodity price risk. Our subsidiaries are required to make cash margin deposits with their brokers to cover actual and potential losses in the value of outstanding exchange traded derivative contracts. The amount of these deposits, some of which is reflected in our restricted cash balance, may fluctuate significantly during periods of high volatility in the energy commodity markets. Refer to Note 10, "Risk Management Activities," in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our commodity price risk assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2021 and 2020. Interest Rate Risk We are exposed to interest rate risk as a result of changes in interest rates on borrowings under our revolving credit agreement, commercial paper program and accounts receivable programs, which have interest rates that are indexed to short-term market interest rates.  Based upon average borrowings and debt obligations subject to fluctuations in short-term market interest rates, an increase (or decrease) in short-term interest rates of 100 basis points (1%) would have increased (or decreased) interest expense by $3.1 million and $12.3 million for 2021 and 2020, respectively. We are also exposed to interest rate risk as a result of changes in benchmark rates that can influence the interest rates of future debt issuances. From time to time we may enter into forward interest rate instruments to lock in long term interest costs and/ or rates. Refer to Note 10, "Risk Management Activities," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our interest rate risk assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2021 and 2020. Credit Risk Due to the nature of the industry, credit risk is embedded in many of our business activities. Our extension of credit is governed by a Corporate Credit Risk Policy. In addition, our Risk Management Committee has put guidelines in place which document management approval levels for credit limits, evaluation of creditworthiness, and credit risk mitigation efforts. Exposures to credit risks are monitored by the risk management function, which is independent of commercial operations. Credit risk arises due to the possibility that a customer, supplier or counterparty will not be able or willing to fulfill its obligations on a transaction on or before the settlement date. For derivative-related contracts, credit risk arises when counterparties are obligated to deliver or purchase defined commodity units of gas or power to us at a future date per execution of contractual terms and conditions. Exposure to credit risk is measured in terms of both current obligations and the market value of forward positions net of any posted collateral such as cash and letters of credit. We closely monitor the financial status of our banking credit providers. We evaluate the financial status of our banking partners through the use of market-based metrics such as credit default swap pricing levels, and also through traditional credit ratings provided by major credit rating agencies. Certain individual state regulatory commissions instituted regulatory moratoriums in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic that impacted our ability to pursue our credit risk mitigation practices for customer accounts receivable. Following the issuances of these moratoriums, certain of our regulated operations have been authorized to recognize a regulatory asset for bad debt costs above levels currently in rates. We have now resumed our common credit mitigation practices in all jurisdictions as these moratoriums have expired.  See the COVID-19 discussion in Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors" for risks that have been identified related to the pandemic and refer to Note 9, "Regulatory Matters," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for state specific regulatory moratoriums. Other Information Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We apply certain accounting policies in accordance with GAAP, which require that we make estimates and judgments that have had, and may continue to have, significant impacts on our operations and Consolidated Financial Statements. We evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. We believe the following represent the more significant items requiring the use of judgment in preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements: 52 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) N I S OURCE I NC . Basis of Accounting for Rate-Regulated Subsidiaries. ASC Topic 980, Regulated Operations , provides that rate-regulated subsidiaries account for and report assets and liabilities consistent with the economic effect of the way in which regulators establish rates, if the rates established are designed to recover the costs of providing the regulated service and if the competitive environment makes it probable that such rates can be charged and collected. Certain expenses and credits subject to utility regulation or rate determination normally reflected in income are deferred on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and are recognized in income as the related amounts are included in service rates and recovered from or refunded to customers. The total amounts of regulatory assets and liabilities reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets were $2,492.2 million and $1,980.0 million at December 31, 2021, and $1,930.5 million and $2,065.5 million at December 31, 2020, respectively. For additional information, refer to Note 9, “Regulatory Matters,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In the event that regulation significantly changes the opportunity for us to recover our costs in the future, all or a portion of our regulated operations may no longer meet the criteria for the application of ASC Topic 980, Regulated Operations . In such event, a write-down of all or a portion of our existing regulatory assets and liabilities could result. If transition cost recovery is approved by the appropriate regulatory bodies that would meet the requirements under GAAP for continued accounting as regulatory assets and liabilities during such recovery period, the regulatory assets and liabilities would be reported at the recoverable amounts. If we were unable to continue to apply the provisions of ASC Topic 980, Regulated Operations , we would be required to apply the provisions of ASC Topic 980-20, Discontinuation of Rate-Regulated Accounting . In management’s opinion, our regulated subsidiaries will be subject to ASC Topic 980, Regulated Operations for the foreseeable future. Certain of the regulatory assets reflected on our Consolidated Balance Sheets require specific regulatory action in order to be included in future service rates. Although recovery of these amounts is not guaranteed, we believe that these costs meet the requirements for deferral as regulatory assets. If we determine that the amounts included as regulatory assets are no longer recoverable, a charge to income would immediately be required to the extent of the unrecoverable amounts. One of the more significant items recorded through the application of this accounting guidance is the regulatory overlay for JV accounting. The application of HLBV to consolidated VIEs generally results in the recognition of profit from the related joint ventures over a time frame that is different from when the regulatory return is earned. In accordance with the principles of ASC 980, we have recognized a regulatory deferral of certain amounts representing the timing difference between the profit earned from the joint ventures and the amount included in regulated rates to recover our approved investments in consolidated joint ventures. For additional information, refer to Note 1-S, "VIEs and Allocation of Earnings," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Equity Unit Transactions. We record the Series C Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock and forward purchase contracts that comprise the Corporate Units as a single unit of account and classify the Corporate Units as equity under the provisions of ASC 480 and ASC 815. Significant judgments regarding the economic linkage between the preferred stock and the forward purchase contracts, as well as the substance of the terms and conditions of the Corporate Units, were required by management in making these determinations. The initial classification of the Corporate Units, whether viewed as a single unit of account or as two freestanding financial instruments, would affect our financial results. If determined to be two units of account, the forward purchase contracts underlying the Corporate Units would be classified as a derivative and result in impacts to net income through the recognition of interest expense and mark-to-market adjustments. If determined to be one unit of account,the equity classification of the Corporate Units would have no material impact on net income. Each classification has differing impacts to the numerator in the computation of EPS. We consider that there are a small number of similar equity hosted unit structures and that our unit structure is unique. We also consider that the provisions of ASC 480 and ASC 815 that govern the determination of unit of account are highly complex and that alternate conclusions reached under this guidance would result in materially different financial results. See Note 13, "Equity," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details of the equity unit transaction. Pension and Postretirement Benefits. We have defined benefit plans for both pension and other postretirement benefits. The calculation of the net obligations and annual expense related to the plans requires a significant degree of judgment regarding the discount rates to be used in bringing the liabilities to present value, expected long-term rates of return on plan assets, health care trend rates, and mortality rates, among other assumptions. Due to the size of the plans and the long-term nature of the associated liabilities, changes in the assumptions used in the actuarial estimates could have material impacts on the measurement of the net obligations and annual expense recognition. Differences between actuarial assumptions and actual plan results are deferred into 53 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) N I S OURCE I NC . AOCI or a regulatory balance sheet account, depending on the jurisdiction of our entity. These deferred gains or losses are then amortized into the income statement when the accumulated differences exceed 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the fair value of plan assets (known in GAAP as the “corridor” method) or when settlement accounting is triggered. The discount rates, expected long-term rates of return on plan assets, health care cost trend rates and mortality rates are critical assumptions. Methods used to develop these assumptions are described below. While a third party actuarial firm assists with the development of many of these assumptions, we are ultimately responsible for selecting the final assumptions. The discount rate is utilized principally in calculating the actuarial present value of pension and other postretirement benefit obligations and net periodic pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs. Our discount rates for both pension and other postretirement benefits are determined using spot rates along an AA-rated above median yield curve with cash flows matching the expected duration of benefit payments to be made to plan participants. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is a component utilized in calculating annual pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs. We estimate the expected return on plan assets by evaluating expected bond returns, equity risk premiums, target asset allocations, the effects of active plan management, the impact of periodic plan asset rebalancing and historical performance. We also consider the guidance from our investment advisors in making a final determination of our expected rate of return on assets. For measurement of 2021 net periodic benefit cost, we selected an expected pre-tax long-term rate of return of 5.20% and 5.50% for our pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets, respectively. We estimate the assumed health care cost trend rate, which is used in determining our other postretirement benefit net expense, based upon our actual health care cost experience, the effects of recently enacted legislation, third-party actuarial surveys and general economic conditions. We utilize a full yield curve approach to estimate the service and interest components of net periodic benefit cost for pension and other postretirement benefits by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve used in the determination of the benefit obligation to the relevant projected cash flows. For further discussion of our pension and other postretirement benefits, see Note 12, “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Typically, we use the Society of Actuaries’ most recently published mortality data in developing a best estimate of mortality as part of the calculation of the pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. Due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, we adjusted our mortality assumption through 2023 to reflect anticipated slow recovery. The following tables illustrate the effects of changes in these actuarial assumptions while holding all other assumptions constant: (1) Before labor capitalization and regulatory deferrals. 54 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) N I S OURCE I NC . Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. We have six goodwill reporting units, comprised of the six state operating companies within the Gas Distribution Operations reportable segment. Our goodwill assets at December 31, 2021 were $1,486 million, most of which resulted from the acquisition of Columbia on November 1, 2000. As required by GAAP, we test for impairment of goodwill on an annual basis and on an interim basis when events or circumstances indicate that a potential impairment may exist. Our annual goodwill test takes place in the second quarter of each year and was performed on May 1, 2021. A qualitative ("step 0") test was completed on May 1, 2021 for all reporting units. In the Step 0 analysis, we assessed various assumptions, events and circumstances that would have affected the estimated fair value of the applicable reporting units as compared to their baseline May 1, 2020 "step 1" fair value measurement. The results of this assessment indicated that it was more likely than not that the estimated fair value of the reporting unit substantially exceeded the related carrying value of our reporting unit; therefore, no "step 1" analysis was required and no impairment charges were indicated. Since the annual evaluation, there have been no indications that the fair values of the goodwill reporting units have decreased below the carrying values. As noted above, application of the qualitative goodwill impairment test requires evaluating various events and circumstances to determine whether it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. Although we believe all relevant factors were considered in the qualitative impairment analysis to reach the conclusion that goodwill is not impaired, significant changes in any one of the assumptions could potentially result in the recording of an impairment that could have significant impacts on the Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 7, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Unbilled Revenue. We record utility operating revenues when energy is delivered to our customers. However, the determination of energy sales to individual customers is based upon the reading of their meters, which occurs on a systematic basis throughout the month. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of their last meter reading are estimated and corresponding unbilled revenues are calculated. This unbilled revenue is estimated each month based upon historical usage, customer rates and weather. Significant fluctuations in energy demand for the unbilled period or changes in the composition of customer classes could impact the accuracy of the unbilled revenue estimate. Refer to Note 3, "Revenue Recognition," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our significant judgments and estimates related to unbilled revenue recognition. Income Taxes. The consolidated income tax provision and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, as well as any unrecognized tax benefits and valuation allowances, require use of estimates and significant management judgement. Although we believe that current estimates for deferred tax assets and liabilities are reasonable, actual results could differ from these estimates for a variety of reasons, including reasonable projections of taxable income, the ability and intent to implement tax planning strategies if necessary, and interpretations of applicable tax laws and regulations across multiple taxing jurisdictions.  Ultimate resolution or clarification of income tax matters may result in favorable or unfavorable impacts to net income and cash flows, and adjustments to tax-related assets and liabilities could be material. We account for uncertain income tax positions using a benefit recognition model with a two-step approach including a more-likely-than-not recognition threshold and a measurement approach based on the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We evaluate each position based solely on the technical merits and facts and circumstances of the position, assuming the position will be examined by a taxing authority having full knowledge of all relevant information. Significant judgment is required to determine whether the recognition threshold has been met and, if so, the appropriate amount of tax benefits to be recorded in the consolidated financial statements.  At  December 31, 2021 we had $21.7 million of unrecognized tax benefits. Changes in these unrecognized tax benefits may result from remeasurement of amounts expected to be realized, settlements with tax authorities and expiration of statutes of limitations. Valuation allowances against deferred tax assets are recorded when we conclude it is more likely than not such asset will not be realized in future periods. Accounting for income taxes also requires that only tax benefits for positions taken or expected to be taken on tax returns that meet the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold can be recognized or continue to be recognized. We evaluate each position solely on the technical merits and facts and circumstances of the position, assuming that the position will be examined by a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. Significant judgment is required to determine recognition thresholds and the related amount of tax benefits to be recognized. At December 31, 2021, we had established $7.8 million of valuation allowances related to certain state NOL carryforwards. Refer to Note 11, "Income Taxes," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 55 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued) N I S OURCE I NC . Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 2, "Recent Accounting Pronouncements," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk are reported in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Market Risk Disclosures.” 56