********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Analyst Reports Certain written and oral statements, other than purely historic information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to NIKE's business plans, objectives and expected operating or financial results and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, made or incorporated by reference from time to time by NIKE or its representatives in this Annual Report, other reports, filings with the SEC, press releases, conferences or otherwise, are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain the words "believe," "anticipate," "expect," "estimate," "project," "will be," "will continue," "will likely result" or words or phrases of similar meaning. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in reports filed by NIKE with the SEC, including reports filed on Forms 8-K, 10-Q and 10-K, and include, among others, the following: international, national and local political, civil, economic and market conditions, including high, and increases in, inflation and interest rates; the size and growth of the overall athletic or leisure footwear, apparel and equipment markets; intense competition among designers, marketers, distributors and sellers of athletic or leisure footwear, apparel and equipment for consumers and endorsers; demographic changes; changes in consumer preferences; popularity of particular designs, categories of products and sports; seasonal and geographic demand for NIKE products; difficulties in anticipating or forecasting changes in consumer preferences, consumer demand for NIKE products and the various market factors described above; our ability to execute on our sustainability strategy and achieve our sustainability-related goals and targets, including sustainable product offerings; difficulties in implementing, operating and maintaining NIKE's increasingly complex information technology systems and controls, including, without limitation, the systems related to demand and supply planning and inventory control; interruptions in data and information technology systems; consumer data security; fluctuations and difficulty in forecasting operating results, including, without limitation, the fact that advance orders may not be indicative of future revenues due to changes in shipment timing, the changing mix of orders with shorter lead times, and discounts, order cancellations and returns; the ability of NIKE to sustain, manage or forecast its growth and inventories; the size, timing and mix of purchases of NIKE's products; increases in the cost of materials, labor and energy used to manufacture products; new product development and introduction; the ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents and other intellectual property; product performance and quality; customer service; adverse publicity and an inability to maintain NIKE's reputation and brand image, including without limitation, through social media or in connection with brand damaging events; the loss of significant customers or suppliers; dependence on distributors and licensees; business disruptions; increased costs of freight and transportation to meet delivery deadlines; increases in borrowing costs due to any decline in NIKE's debt ratings; changes in business strategy or development plans; general risks associated with doing business outside of the United States, including, without limitation, exchange rate fluctuations, import duties, tariffs, quotas, sanctions, political and economic instability, conflicts and terrorism; the potential impact of new and existing laws, regulations or policy, including, without limitation, tariffs, import/export, trade, wage and hour or labor and immigration regulations or policies; changes in government regulations; the impact of, including business and legal developments relating to, climate change, extreme weather conditions and natural disasters; litigation, regulatory proceedings, sanctions or any other claims asserted against NIKE; the ability to attract and retain qualified employees, and any negative public perception with respect to key personnel or our corporate culture, values or purpose; the effects of NIKE's decision to invest in or divest of businesses or capabilities; health epidemics, pandemics and similar outbreaks, including the COVID-19 pandemic; and other factors referenced or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report and other reports. Investors should also be aware that while NIKE does, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against NIKE's policy to disclose to them any material non-public information or other confidential commercial information. Accordingly, shareholders should not assume that NIKE agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. Furthermore, NIKE has a policy against confirming financial forecasts or projections issued by others. Thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not the responsibility of NIKE. Risk Factors The risks included here are not exhaustive. Other sections of this Annual Report may include additional factors which could adversely affect NIKE's business and financial performance. Moreover, NIKE operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risks, nor can it assess the impact of all such risks on NIKE's business or the extent to which any risk, or combination of risks, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. 2023 FORM 10-K 9 Economic and Industry Risks Global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The uncertain state of the global economy, including high and rising levels of inflation and interest rates and the risk of a recession, continues to impact businesses around the world. If global economic and financial market conditions deteriorate, the following factors, among others, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition: • Our sales are impacted by discretionary spending by consumers. Declines in consumer spending have in the past resulted in and may in the future result in reduced demand for our products, increased inventories, reduced orders from retailers for our products, order cancellations, lower revenues, higher discounts and lower gross margins. • In the future, we may be unable to access financing in the credit and capital markets at reasonable rates in the event we find it desirable to do so. • We conduct transactions in various currencies, which creates exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. Dollar. Continued volatility in the markets and exchange rates for foreign currencies and contracts in foreign currencies has had and could continue to have a significant impact on our reported operating results and financial condition. • Continued volatility in the availability and prices for commodities and raw materials we use in our products and in our supply chain (such as cotton or petroleum derivatives) has had and could in the future have a material adverse effect on our costs, gross margins and profitability. In addition, supply chain issues caused by factors including the COVID-19 pandemic and geopolitical conflicts have impacted and may continue to impact the availability, pricing and timing for obtaining commodities and raw materials. • If retailers of our products experience declining revenues or experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase our products, this could result in reduced orders for our products, order cancellations, late retailer payments, extended payment terms, higher accounts receivable, reduced cash flows, greater expense associated with collection efforts and increased bad debt expense. • In the past, certain retailers of our products have experienced severe financial difficulty, become insolvent and ceased business operations, and this could occur in the future, which could negatively impact the sale of our products to consumers. • If contract manufacturers of our products or other participants in our supply chain experience difficulty obtaining financing in the capital and credit markets to purchase raw materials or to finance capital equipment and other general working capital needs, it may result in delays or non-delivery of shipments of our products. Our products, services and experiences face intense competition. NIKE is a consumer products company and the relative popularity of various sports and fitness activities and changing design trends affect the demand for our products, services and experiences. The athletic footwear, apparel and equipment industry is highly competitive both in the United States and worldwide. We compete internationally with a significant number of athletic and leisure footwear companies, athletic and leisure apparel companies, sports equipment companies, private labels and large companies that have diversified lines of athletic and leisure footwear, apparel and equipment. We also compete with other companies for the production capacity of contract manufacturers that produce our products. In addition, we and our contract manufacturers compete with other companies and industries for raw materials used in our products. Our NIKE Direct operations, both through our digital commerce operations and retail stores, also compete with multi-brand retailers, which sell our products through their digital platforms and physical stores, and with digital commerce platforms. In addition, we compete with respect to the digital services and experiences we are able to offer our consumers, including fitness and activity apps; sport, fitness and wellness content and services; and digital services and features in retail stores that enhance the consumer experience. Product offerings, technologies, marketing expenditures (including expenditures for advertising and endorsements), pricing, costs of production, customer service, digital commerce platforms, digital services and experiences and social media presence are areas of intense competition. These, in addition to ongoing rapid changes in technology, a reduction in barriers to the creation of new footwear and apparel companies and consumer preferences in the markets for athletic and leisure footwear, apparel, and equipment, services and experiences, constitute significant risk factors in our operations. In addition, the competitive nature of retail, including shifts in the ways in which consumers shop, and the continued proliferation of digital commerce, constitutes a risk factor implicating our NIKE Direct and wholesale operations. If we do not adequately and timely anticipate and respond to our competitors, our costs may increase, demand for our products may decline, possibly significantly, or we may need to reduce wholesale or suggested retail prices for our products. 2023 FORM 10-K 10 Economic factors beyond our control, and changes in the global economic environment, including fluctuations in inflation and currency exchange rates, could result in lower revenues, higher costs and decreased margins and earnings. A majority of our products are manufactured and sold outside of the United States, and we conduct purchase and sale transactions in various currencies, which creates exposure to the volatility of global economic conditions, including fluctuations in inflation and foreign currency exchange rates. Central banks may deploy various strategies to combat inflation, including increasing interest rates, which may impact our borrowing costs. Additionally, there has been, and may continue to be, volatility in currency exchange rates that impact the U.S. Dollar value relative to other international currencies. Our international revenues and expenses generally are derived from sales and operations in foreign currencies, and these revenues and expenses are affected by currency fluctuations, specifically amounts recorded in foreign currencies and translated into U.S. Dollars for consolidated financial reporting, as weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar adversely affects the U.S. Dollar value of the Company's foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could also disrupt the business of the independent manufacturers that produce our products by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. Foreign currency fluctuations have adversely affected and could continue to have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We hedge certain foreign currency exposures to lessen and delay, but not to completely eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on our financial results. Since the hedging activities are designed to lessen volatility, they not only reduce the negative impact of a stronger U.S. Dollar or other trading currency, but they also reduce the positive impact of a weaker U.S. Dollar or other trading currency. Our future financial results have in the past been and could in the future be significantly affected by the value of the U.S. Dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we conduct business. The degree to which our financial results are affected for any given time period will depend in part upon our hedging activities. We may be adversely affected by the financial health of our wholesale customers. We extend credit to our customers based on an assessment of a customer's financial condition, generally without requiring collateral. To assist in the scheduling of production and the shipping of our products, we offer certain customers the opportunity to place orders five to six months ahead of delivery under our futures ordering program. These advance orders may be canceled under certain conditions, and the risk of cancellation increases when dealing with financially unstable retailers or retailers struggling with economic uncertainty. In the past, some customers have experienced financial difficulties up to and including bankruptcies, which have had an adverse effect on our sales, our ability to collect on receivables and our financial condition. When the retail economy weakens or as consumer behavior shifts, retailers tend to be more cautious with orders. A slowing or changing economy in our key markets, including a recession, could adversely affect the financial health of our customers, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, product sales are dependent in part on high quality merchandising and an appealing retail environment to attract consumers, which requires continuing investments by retailers. Retailers that experience financial difficulties may fail to make such investments or delay them, resulting in lower sales and orders for our products. Climate change and other sustainability-related matters, or legal, regulatory or market responses thereto, may have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. There are concerns that increased levels of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere have caused, and may continue to cause, potentially at a growing rate, increases in global temperatures, changes in weather patterns and increasingly frequent and/or prolonged extreme weather and climate events. Climate change may also exacerbate challenges relating to the availability and quality of water and raw materials, including those used in the production of our products, and may result in changes in regulations or consumer preferences, which could in turn affect our business, operating results and financial condition. For example, there has been increased focus by governmental and non-governmental organizations, consumers, customers, employees and other stakeholders on products that are sustainably made and other sustainability matters, including responsible sourcing and deforestation, the use of plastic, energy and water, the recyclability or recoverability of packaging and materials transparency, any of which may require us to incur increased costs for additional transparency, due diligence and reporting. In addition, federal, state or local governmental authorities in various countries have proposed, and are likely to continue to propose, legislative and regulatory initiatives to reduce or mitigate the impacts of climate change on the environment. Various countries and regions are following different approaches to the regulation of climate change, which could increase the complexity of, and potential cost related to complying with, such regulations. Any of the foregoing may require us to make additional investments in facilities and equipment, may impact the availability and cost of key raw materials used in the production of our products or the demand for our products, and, in turn, may adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Although we have announced sustainability-related goals and targets, there can be no assurance that our stakeholders will agree with our strategies, and any perception, whether or not valid, that we have failed to achieve, or to act responsibly with respect to, such matters or to effectively respond to new or additional legal or regulatory requirements regarding climate change, could result in adverse publicity and adversely affect our business and reputation. Execution of these strategies and achievement of our goals is subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not 2023 FORM 10-K 11 limited to, our ability to execute our strategies and achieve our goals within the currently projected costs and the expected timeframes; the availability and cost of raw materials and renewable energy; unforeseen production, design, operational and technological difficulties; the outcome of research efforts and future technology developments, including the ability to scale projects and technologies on a commercially competitive basis such as carbon sequestration and/or other related processes; compliance with, and changes or additions to, global and regional regulations, taxes, charges, mandates or requirements relating to greenhouse gas emissions, carbon costs or climate-related goals; adapting products to customer preferences and customer acceptance of sustainable supply chain solutions; and the actions of competitors and competitive pressures. As a result, there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully execute our strategies and achieve our sustainability-related goals, which could damage our reputation and customer and other stakeholder relationships and have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Extreme weather conditions and natural disasters could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Given the broad and global scope of our operations, we are particularly vulnerable to the physical risks of climate change, such as shifts in weather patterns. Extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our retail stores, suppliers, manufacturers, customers, distribution centers, offices, headquarters and vendors are located could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Moreover, natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, wildfires, tsunamis, floods or droughts, whether occurring in the United States or abroad, and their related consequences and effects, including energy shortages and public health issues, have in the past temporarily disrupted, and could in the future disrupt, our operations, the operations of our vendors, manufacturers and other suppliers or have in the past resulted in, and in the future could result in, economic instability that may negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. In particular, if a natural disaster or severe weather event were to occur in an area in which we or our suppliers, manufacturers, employees, customers, distribution centers or vendors are located, our continued success would depend, in part, on the safety and availability of the relevant personnel and facilities and proper functioning of our or third parties' computer, network, telecommunication and other systems and operations. In addition, a natural disaster or severe weather event could negatively impact retail traffic to our stores or stores that carry our products and could have an adverse impact on consumer spending, any of which could in turn result in negative point-of-sale trends for our merchandise. Further, climate change may increase both the frequency and severity of extreme weather conditions and natural disasters, which may affect our business operations, either in a particular region or globally, as well as the activities of our third-party vendors and other suppliers, manufacturers and customers. We believe the diversity of locations in which we operate, our operational size, disaster recovery and business continuity planning and our information technology systems and networks, including the Internet and third-party services ("Information Technology Systems"), position us well, but may not be sufficient for all or for concurrent eventualities. If we were to experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity event or concurrent events, we could experience operational challenges, in particular depending upon how a local or regional event may affect our human capital across our operations or with regard to particular aspects of our operations, such as key executive officers or personnel. For example, our world headquarters is located in an active seismic zone, which is at a higher risk for earthquakes and the related consequences or effects. Further, if we are unable to find alternative suppliers, replace capacity at key manufacturing or distribution locations or quickly repair damage to our Information Technology Systems or supply systems, we could be late in delivering, or be unable to deliver, products to our customers. These events could result in reputational damage, lost sales, cancellation charges or markdowns, all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our financial condition and results of operations have been, and could in the future be, adversely affected by a pandemic, epidemic or other public health emergency. Pandemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic, and other public health emergencies, and preventative measures taken to contain or mitigate such crises have caused, and may in the future cause, business slowdown or shutdown in affected areas and significant disruption in the financial markets, both globally and in the United States. These events have led to and could again lead to adverse impacts to our global supply chain, factory cancellation costs, store closures, and a decline in retail traffic and discretionary spending by consumers and, in turn, materially impact our business, sales, financial condition and results of operations as well as cause a volatile effective tax rate driven by changes in the mix of earnings across our jurisdictions. We cannot predict whether, and to what degree, our sales, operations and financial results could in the future be affected by the pandemic and preventative measures. Risks presented by pandemics and other public health emergencies include, but are not limited to: • Deterioration in economic conditions in the United States and globally, including the effect of prolonged periods of inflation on our consumers and vendors; • Disruption to our distribution centers, contract manufacturers, finished goods factories and other vendors, through the effects of facility closures, increased operating costs, reductions in operating hours, labor shortages, and real time changes in operating procedures, such as additional cleaning and disinfection procedures, which have had, and could in the future again have, a significant impact on our planned inventory production and distribution, including higher inventory levels or inventory shortages in various markets; 2023 FORM 10-K 12 • Impacts to our distribution and logistics providers' ability to operate, including labor and container shortages, and increases in their operating costs. These supply chain effects have had, and could in the future have, an adverse effect on our ability to meet consumer demand, including digital demand, and have in the past resulted in and could in the future result in extended inventory transit times and an increase in our costs of production and distribution, including increased freight and logistics costs and other expenses; • Decreased retail traffic as a result of store closures, reduced operating hours, social distancing restrictions and/or changes in consumer behavior; • Reduced consumer demand for our products, including as a result of a rise in unemployment rates, higher costs of borrowing, inflation and diminished consumer confidence; • Cancellation or postponement of sports seasons and sporting events in multiple countries, and bans on large public gatherings, which have reduced and in the future could reduce consumer spending on our products and could impact the effectiveness of our arrangements with key endorsers; • The risk that any safety protocols in NIKE-owned or affiliated facilities, including our offices, will not be effective or not be perceived as effective, or that any virus-related illnesses will be linked or alleged to be linked to such facilities, whether accurate or not; • Incremental costs resulting from the adoption of preventative measures and compliance with regulatory requirements, including providing facial coverings and hand sanitizer, rearranging operations to follow social distancing protocols, conducting temperature checks, testing and undertaking regular and thorough disinfecting of surfaces; • Bankruptcies or other financial difficulties facing our wholesale customers, which could cause them to be unable to make or delay making payments to us, or result in revised payment terms, cancellation or reduction of their orders; and • Significant disruption of and volatility in global financial markets, which could have a negative impact on our ability to access capital in the future. We cannot reasonably predict the ultimate impact of any pandemic or public health emergency, including the extent of any adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, which will depend on, among other things, the duration and spread of the pandemic or public health emergency, the impact of governmental regulations that have been, and may continue to be, imposed in response, the effectiveness of actions taken to contain or mitigate the outbreak, the availability, safety and efficacy of vaccines, including against emerging variants of the infectious disease, and global economic conditions. Additionally, disruptions have in the past made it more challenging to compare our performance, including our revenue growth and overall profitability, across quarters and fiscal years, and could have this effect in the future. Any pandemic or public health emergency may also affect our business, results of operations or financial condition in a manner that is not presently known to us or that we currently do not consider to present significant risks and may also exacerbate, or occur concurrently with, other risks discussed in this Item 1A. Risk Factors, any of which could have a material effect on us. Business and Operational Risks Failure to maintain our reputation, brand image and culture could negatively impact our business. Our iconic brands have worldwide recognition, and our success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance our brand image and reputation. Maintaining, promoting and growing our brands will depend on our design and marketing efforts, including advertising and consumer campaigns, product innovation and product quality. Our commitment to product innovation, quality and sustainability, and our continuing investment in design (including materials), marketing and sustainability measures may not have the desired impact on our brand image and reputation. In addition, our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media and digital environment, including our reliance on social media and other digital advertising networks, and digital dissemination of advertising campaigns on our digital platforms and through our digital experiences and products. We could be adversely impacted if we fail to achieve any of these objectives. Our brand value also depends on our ability to maintain a positive consumer perception of our corporate integrity, purpose and brand culture. Negative claims or publicity involving us, our culture and values, our products, services and experiences, consumer data, or any of our key employees, endorsers, sponsors, suppliers or partners could seriously damage our reputation and brand image, regardless of whether such claims are accurate. For example, while we require our suppliers of our products to operate their business in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we do not control their practices. Negative publicity relating to a violation or an alleged violation of policies or laws by such suppliers could damage our brand image and diminish consumer trust in our brand. Further, our reputation and brand image could be damaged as a result of our support of, association with or lack of support or disapproval of certain social causes, as well as any decisions we make to continue to conduct, or change, certain of our activities in response to such considerations. Social media, which accelerates and potentially amplifies the scope of negative publicity, can increase the challenges of responding to negative claims. Adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us, or by us, could also damage our reputation and brand image, undermine consumer confidence in us and reduce long-term demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. If 2023 FORM 10-K 13 the reputation, culture or image of any of our brands is tarnished or if we receive negative publicity, then our sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our business is affected by seasonality, which could result in fluctuations in our operating results. We experience moderate fluctuations in aggregate sales volume during the year. Historically, revenues in the first and fourth fiscal quarters have slightly exceeded those in the second and third fiscal quarters. However, the mix of product sales may vary considerably from time to time or in the future as a result of strategic shifts in our business and seasonal or geographic demand for particular types of footwear, apparel and equipment and in connection with the timing of significant sporting events, such as the NBA Finals, Olympics or the World Cup, among others. In addition, our customers may cancel orders, change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice. As a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. Accordingly, our results of operations are likely to fluctuate significantly from period to period. This seasonality, along with other factors that are beyond our control, including economic conditions, changes in consumer preferences, weather conditions, outbreaks of disease, social or political unrest, availability of import quotas, transportation disruptions and currency exchange rate fluctuations, has in the past adversely affected and could in the future adversely affect our business and cause our results of operations to fluctuate. Our operating margins are also sensitive to a number of additional factors that are beyond our control, including manufacturing and transportation costs, shifts in product sales mix and geographic sales trends, all of which we expect to continue. Results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. If we are unable to anticipate consumer preferences and develop new products, we may not be able to maintain or increase our revenues and profits. Our success depends on our ability to identify, originate and define product trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. However, lead times for many of our products may make it more difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing product trends or consumer preferences. All of our products are subject to changing consumer preferences that cannot be predicted with certainty. Our new products may not receive consumer acceptance as consumer preferences could shift rapidly to different types of performance products or away from these types of products altogether, and our future success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes. If we fail to anticipate accurately and respond to trends and shifts in consumer preferences by adjusting the mix of existing product offerings, developing new products, designs, styles and categories, and influencing sports and fitness preferences through extensive marketing, we could experience lower sales, excess inventories or lower profit margins, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we market our products globally through a diverse spectrum of advertising and promotional programs and campaigns, including social media and other digital advertising networks. If we do not successfully market our products or if advertising and promotional costs increase, these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on technical innovation and high-quality products to compete in the market for our products. Technical innovation and quality control in the design and manufacturing processes of footwear, apparel, equipment and other products and services are essential to the commercial success of our products and development of new products. Research and development play a key role in technical innovation. We rely upon specialists in the fields of biomechanics, chemistry, exercise physiology, engineering, digital technologies, industrial design, sustainability and related fields, as well as research committees and advisory boards made up of athletes, coaches, trainers, equipment managers, orthopedists, podiatrists and other experts to develop and test cutting-edge performance products. While we strive to produce products that help to enhance athletic performance and reduce injury and maximize comfort, if we fail to introduce technical innovation in our products, consumer demand for our products could decline, and if we experience problems with the quality of our products, we may incur substantial expense to remedy the problems and loss of consumer confidence. Failure to continue to obtain or maintain high-quality endorsers of our products could harm our business. We establish relationships with professional athletes, sports teams and leagues, as well as other public figures, including artists, designers and influencers, to develop, evaluate and promote our products, as well as establish product authenticity with consumers. However, as competition in our industry has increased, the costs associated with establishing and retaining such sponsorships and other relationships have increased, and competition to attract and retain high-quality endorsers has increased. If we are unable to maintain our current associations with professional athletes, sports teams and leagues, or other public figures, or to do so at a reasonable cost, we could lose the high visibility or on-field authenticity associated with our products, and we may be required to modify and substantially increase our marketing investments. As a result, our brands, net revenues, expenses and profitability could be harmed. Furthermore, if certain endorsers were to stop using our products contrary to their endorsement agreements, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, actions taken or statements made by athletes, teams or leagues, or other endorsers, associated with our products or brand that harm the reputations of those athletes, teams or leagues, or endorsers, or our decisions to cease collaborating with certain endorsers in light of actions taken or statements made by them, have in the past harmed and could in the future seriously harm our brand image with consumers and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on 2023 FORM 10-K 14 our sales and financial condition. Poor or non-performance by our endorsers, a failure to continue to correctly identify promising athletes, public figures or sports organizations, to use and endorse our products and brand or a failure to enter into cost-effective endorsement arrangements with prominent athletes, public figures and sports organizations could adversely affect our brand, sales and profitability. Failure to accurately forecast consumer demand could lead to excess inventories or inventory shortages, which could result in decreased operating margins, reduced cash flows and harm to our business. To meet anticipated demand for our products, we purchase products from manufacturers outside of our futures ordering program and in advance of customer orders, which we hold in inventory and resell to customers. There is a risk we may be unable to sell excess products ordered from manufacturers. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices could significantly impair our brand image and have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply products we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. Inventory shortages could delay shipments to customers, negatively impact retailer, distributor and consumer relationships and diminish brand loyalty. The difficulty in forecasting demand also makes it difficult to estimate our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows from period to period. A failure to accurately predict the level of demand for our products could adversely affect our net revenues and net income, and we are unlikely to forecast such effects with any certainty in advance. Our NIKE Direct operations have required and will continue to require a substantial investment and commitment of resources and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. Our NIKE Direct operations, including our retail stores and digital platforms, have required and will continue to require significant investment. Our NIKE Direct stores have required and will continue to require substantial fixed investment in equipment and leasehold improvements and personnel. We have entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space. Certain stores have been designed and built to serve as high-profile venues to promote brand awareness and marketing activities and to integrate with our digital platforms. Because of their unique design and technological elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment than other stores. Due to the high fixed-cost structure associated with our NIKE Direct retail stores, a decline in sales, a shift in consumer behavior away from brick-and-mortar retail, or the closure, temporary or otherwise, or poor performance of individual or multiple stores could result in significant lease termination costs, write-offs of equipment and leasehold improvements and employee-related costs. Many factors unique to retail operations, some of which are beyond our control, pose risks and uncertainties. Risks include, but are not limited to: credit card fraud; mismanagement of existing retail channel partners; inability to manage costs associated with store construction and operation; and theft. In addition, we have made significant investments in digital technologies and information systems for the digital aspect of our NIKE Direct operations, and our digital offerings will require co ntinued investment in the development and upgrading of our technology platforms. In order to deliver high-quality digital experiences, our digital platforms must be designed effectively and work well with a range of other technologies, systems, networks, and standards that we do not control. We may not be successful in developing platforms that operate effectively with these technologies, systems, networks or standards. A growing portion of consumers access our NIKE Direct digital platforms, but in the event that it is more difficult for consumers to access and use our digital platforms, consumers find that our digital platforms do not effectively meet their needs or expectations or consumers choose not to access or use our digital platforms or use devices that do not offer access to our platforms, the success of our NIKE Direct operations could be adversely impacted. Our competitors may develop, or have already developed, digital experiences, features, content, services or technologies that are similar to ours or that achieve greater acceptance. We may not realize a satisfactory return on our investment in our NIKE Direct operations and management's attention from our other business opportunities could be diverted, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If the technology-based systems that give our consumers the ability to shop or interact with us online do not function effectively, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our digital commerce business globally or to retain our customer base, could be materially adversely affected. Many of our consumers shop with us through our digital platforms. Increasingly, consumers are using mobile-based devices and applications to shop online with us and with our competitors, and to do comparison shopping, as well as to engage with us and our competitors through digital services and experiences that are offered on mobile platforms. We use social media and proprietary mobile applications to interact with our consumers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience. Any failure on our part to provide attractive, effective, reliable, secure and user-friendly digital commerce platforms that offer a wide assortment of merchandise with rapid delivery options and that continually meet the changing expectations of online shoppers or any failure to provide attractive digital experiences to our customers could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of digital commerce and other sales, harm our reputation with consumers, have a material adverse impact on the growth of our digital commerce business globally and have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. In 2023 FORM 10-K 15 addition, as use of our digital platforms continues to grow, we will need an increasing amount of technical infrastructure to continue to satisfy our consumers' needs. If we fail to continue to effectively scale and adapt our digital platforms to accommodate increased consumer demand, our business may be subject to interruptions, delays or failures and consumer demand for our products and digital experiences could decline. Risks specific to our digital commerce business also include diversion of sales from our and our retailers' brick and mortar stores, difficulty in recreating the in-store experience through direct channels and liability for online content. Our failure to successfully respond to these risks might adversely affect sales in our digital commerce business, as well as damage our reputation and brands. We rely significantly on information technology to operate our business, including our supply chain and retail operations, and any failure, inadequacy or interruption of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. We are heavily dependent on Information Technology Systems, across our supply chain, including product design, production, forecasting, ordering, manufacturing, transportation, sales and distribution, as well as for processing financial information for external and internal reporting purposes, retail operations and other business activities. Information Technology Systems are critical to many of our operating activities and our business processes and may be negatively impacted by any service interruption or shutdown. For example, our ability to effectively manage and maintain our inventory and to ship products to customers on a timely basis depends significantly on the reliability of these Information Technology Systems. Over a number of years, we have implemented Information Technology Systems in all of the geographical regions in which we operate. Our work to integrate, secure and enhance these systems and related processes in our global operations is ongoing and NIKE will continue to invest in these efforts. We cannot provide assurance, however, that the measures we take to secure and enhance these systems will be sufficient to protect our Information Technology Systems and prevent cyber-attacks, system failures or data or information loss. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, including as a result of security breaches, viruses, hackers, malware, natural disasters, vendor business interruptions or other causes, failure to properly maintain, protect, repair or upgrade systems, or problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems could cause delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of our operations, could require significant capital investments to remediate the problem which may not be sufficient to cover all eventualities, and may have an adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the use of employee-owned devices for communications as well as hybrid work arrangements, present additional operational risks to our Information Technology Systems, including, but not limited to, increased risks of cyber-attacks. Further, like other companies in the retail industry, we have in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, cyber-attacks, including phishing, and other attempts to breach, or gain unauthorized access to, our systems. To date, these attacks have not had a material impact on our operations, but we cannot provide assurance that they will not have an impact in the future. We also use Information Technology Systems to process financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal and tax requirements. From time to time, we have expended, and expect to continue to expend, significant resources to modify, update and enhance our Information Technology Systems and to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures. These modifications, updates and enhancements may cost more than initially expected and may not be effective in preventing issues and disruptions. Moreover, due to the complexity of our Information Technology Systems, the process of implementing modifications or enhancements can itself create a risk of systems disruptions and security issues. If Information Technology Systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and our business continuity plans, or those of our vendors, do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, we could experience delays in reporting our financial results, which could result in lost revenues and profits, as well as reputational damage. Furthermore, we depend on Information Technology Systems and personal data collection for digital marketing, digital commerce, consumer engagement and the marketing and use of our digital products and services. We also rely on our ability to engage in electronic communications throughout the world between and among our employees as well as with other third parties, including customers, suppliers, vendors and consumers. Any interruption in Information Technology Systems may impede our ability to engage in the digital space and result in lost revenues, damage to our reputation, and loss of users. We are subject to the risk our licensees may not generate expected sales or maintain the value of our brands. We currently license, and expect to continue licensing, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to third parties. If our licensees fail to successfully market and sell licensed products, or fail to obtain sufficient capital or effectively manage their business operations, customer relationships, labor relationships, supplier relationships or credit risks, it could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced royalties received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. We also rely on our licensees to help preserve the value of our brands. Although we attempt to protect our brands through approval rights over the design, production processes, quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our licensed products, we cannot completely control the use of our licensed brands by our licensees. The misuse of a brand by or negative publicity involving a licensee could have a material adverse effect on that brand and on us. 2023 FORM 10-K 16 Consolidation of retailers or concentration of retail market share among a few retailers may increase and concentrate our credit risk and impair our ability to sell products. The athletic footwear, apparel and equipment retail markets in some countries are dominated by a few large athletic footwear, apparel and equipment retailers with many stores and accelerating digital commerce capabilities. The market shares of these retailers may increase through acquisitions and construction of additional stores and investments in digital capacity, and as a result of attrition as struggling retailers exit the market. Consolidation of our retailers will concentrate our credit risk with a smaller set of retailers, any of whom may experience declining sales or a shortage of liquidity. In addition, increasing market share concentration among a few retailers in a particular country or region increases the risk that if any one of them substantially reduces their purchases of our products, we may be unable to find sufficient retail outlets for our products to sustain the same level of sales and revenues. If one or more of our counterparty financial institutions default on their obligations to us or fail, we may incur significant losses. As part of our hedging activities, we enter into transactions involving derivative financial instruments, which may include forward contracts, commodity futures contracts, option contracts, collars and swaps with various financial institutions. In addition, we have significant amounts of cash, cash equivalents and other investments on deposit or in accounts with banks or other financial institutions in the United States and abroad. As a result, we are exposed to the risk of default by or failure of counterparty financial institutions. The risk of counterparty default or failure may be heightened during economic downturns and periods of uncertainty in the financial markets. If one of our counterparties were to become insolvent or file for bankruptcy, our ability to recover losses incurred as a result of default, or our assets deposited or held in accounts with such counterparty, may be limited by the counterparty's liquidity or the applicable laws governing the insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings. In the event of default or failure of one or more of our counterparties, we could incur significant losses, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on a concentrated source base of contract manufacturers to supply a significant portion of our footwear products. As of May 31, 2023, our contract manufacturers operated 123 finished goods footwear factories located in 11 countries. We rely upon contract manufacturers, which we do not own or operate, to manufacture all of the footwear products we sell. For fiscal 2023, four footwear contract manufacturers each accounted for greater than 10% of footwear production and in the aggregate accounted for approximately 58% of NIKE Brand footwear production. Our ability to meet our customers' needs depends on our ability to maintain a steady supply of products from our contract manufacturers. If one or more of our significant suppliers were to sever their relationship with us or significantly alter the terms of our relationship, including due to changes in applicable trade policies, or be unable to perform, we may not be able to obtain replacement products in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, sales, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, if any of our primary footwear contract manufacturers fail to make timely shipments, do not meet our quality standards or otherwise fail to deliver us product in accordance with our plans, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Certain of our footwear contract manufacturers are highly specialized and only produce a specific type of product. Such contract manufacturers may go out of business if consumer preferences or market conditions change such that there is no longer sufficient demand for the types of products they produce. If, in the future, the relevant products are again in demand and the specialized contract manufacturers no longer exist, we may not be able to locate replacement facilities to manufacture certain footwear products in a timely manner or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition or results of operations. The market for prime real estate is competitive. Our ability to effectively obtain real estate to open new retail stores and otherwise conduct our operations, both domestically and internationally, depends on the availability of real estate that meets our criteria for traffic, square footage, co-tenancies, lease economics, demographics and other factors. We also must be able to effectively renew our existing real estate leases. In addition, from time to time, we seek to downsize, consolidate, reposition or close some of our real estate locations, which may require modification of an existing lease. Failure to secure adequate new locations or successfully modify leases for existing locations, or failure to effectively manage the profitability of our existing fleet of retail stores, could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Additionally, the economic environment may make it difficult to determine the fair market rent of real estate properties domestically and internationally. This could impact the quality of our decisions to exercise lease options at previously negotiated rents and to renew expiring leases at negotiated rents. Any adverse effect on the quality of these decisions could impact our ability to retain real estate locations adequate to meet our targets or efficiently manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 2023 FORM 10-K 17 The success of our business depends, in part, on high-quality employees, including key personnel as well as our ability to maintain our workplace culture and values. Our success depends in part on the continued service of high-quality employees, including key executive officers and personnel. The loss of the services of key individuals, or any negative perception with respect to these individuals, or our workplace culture or values, could harm our business. Our success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and engage our personnel sufficiently, both to maintain our current business and to execute our strategic initiatives. Competition for employees in our industry is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. Changes to our current and future work models may not meet the needs or expectations of our employees or may not be perceived as favorable compared to other companies' policies, which could negatively impact our ability to attract, hire and retain our employees. In addition, shifts in U.S. immigration policy could negatively impact our ability to attract, hire and retain highly skilled employees who are from outside the United States. W e also believe that our corporate culture has been a key driver of our success, and we have invested substantial time and resources in building, maintaining and evolving our culture. Any failure to preserve and evolve our culture could negatively affect our future success, including our ability to retain and recruit employees. Our business operations and financial performance could be adversely affected by changes in our relationship with our workforce or changes to United States or foreign employment regulations. We have significant exposure to changes in domestic and foreign laws governing our relationships with our workforce, including wage and hour laws and regulations, fair labor standards, minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates, citizenship requirements and payroll taxes, which could have a direct impact on our operating costs. A significant increase in minimum wage or overtime rates in countries where we have workforce could have a significant impact on our operating costs and may require that we relocate those operations or take other steps to mitigate such increases, all of which may cause us to incur additional costs. There is also a risk of potential claims that we have violated laws related to discrimination and harassment, health and safety, wage and hour laws, criminal activity, personal injury and other claims. In addition, if there were a significant increase in the number of members of our workforce who are members of labor organizations or become parties to collective bargaining agreements, we could be vulnerable to a strike, work stoppage or other labor action, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Operating a Global Business Our international operations involve inherent risks which could result in harm to our business. Nearly all of our athletic footwear and apparel is manufactured outside of the United States, and the majority of our products are sold outside of the United States. Accordingly, we are subject to the risks generally associated with global trade and doing business abroad, which include foreign laws and regulations, varying consumer preferences across geographic regions, political tensions, unrest, disruptions or delays in cross-border shipments and changes in economic conditions in countries in which our products are manufactured or where we sell products. Changes in U.S. or international social, political, regulatory and economic conditions could impact our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, political and economic instability, geopolitical conflicts, political unrest, civil strife, terrorist activity, acts of war, public corruption, expropriation, nationalism and other economic or political uncertainties in the United States or internationally could interrupt and negatively affect the sale of our products or other business operations. Any negative sentiment toward the United States as a result of any such changes could also adversely affect our business. In addition, disease outbreaks, terrorist acts and military conflict have increased the risks of doing business abroad. These factors, among others, could affect our ability to manufacture products or procure materials, or our costs for manufacturing and procuring materials, our ability to import products, our ability to sell products in international markets and our cost of doing business. If any of these or other factors make the conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impractical, our business could be adversely affected. Our products are subject to risks associated with overseas sourcing, manufacturing and financing. The principal materials used in our footwear products — natural and synthetic rubber, plastic compounds, foam cushioning materials, natural and synthetic leather, nylon, polyester and natural fiber textiles and polyurethane films — are locally available to manufacturers. The principal materials used in our apparel products — natural and synthetic fabrics, yarns and threads (both virgin and recycled), specialized performance fabrics designed to efficiently wick moisture away from the body, retain heat and repel rain and/or snow as well as plastic and metal hardware — are also available in countries where our manufacturing takes place. Both our apparel and footwear products are dependent upon the ability of our contract manufacturers to locate, train, employ and retain adequate personnel. NIKE contract manufacturers and materials suppliers buy raw materials and are subject to wage rates and other labor standards that are oftentimes regulated by the governments of the countries in which our products are manufactured. There could be a significant disruption in the supply of fabrics or raw materials from current sources or, in the event of a disruption or heightened competition for such materials, our contract manufacturers might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price or at all. Further, our contract manufacturers have experienced and may continue to experience in the future, unexpected closures, unexpected increases in work wages or other 2023 FORM 10-K 18 changes in labor standards, whether government mandated or otherwise, and increases in compliance costs due to governmental regulation concerning certain metals, fabrics or raw materials used in the manufacturing of our products. In addition, we cannot be certain that manufacturers that we do not contract and that we refer to as "unaffiliated manufacturers" will be able to fill our orders in a timely manner. If we experience significant increases in demand, or reductions in the availability of materials, or need to replace an existing contract manufacturer or materials supplier, there can be no assurance additional supplies of fabrics or raw materials or additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms acceptable to us, or at all, or that any contract manufacturer, unaffiliated manufacturer, or any materials supplier would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. In addition, even if we are able to expand existing or find new manufacturing capacity or sources of materials, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train suppliers and manufacturers in our methods, products, quality control standards and labor, health and safety standards. Any delays, interruption or increased costs in labor or wages, in the supply of materials or in the manufacturing of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet retail customer and consumer demand for our products and result in lower revenues and net income both in the short- and long-term. Because contract manufacturers make a majority of our products outside of our principal sales markets, our products must be transported by third parties over large geographic distances. Delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, container shortages, labor shortages, including work stoppages or port strikes, infrastructure and port congestion or other factors, and costs and delays associated with consolidating or transitioning between manufacturers, have adversely impacted, and could in the future adversely impact the availability of our products and, in turn, our financial performance. In addition, delays in the shipment or delivery of our products, manufacturing delays or unexpected demand for our products have required us, and may in the future require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as air freight, which could adversely affect our profit margins. The cost of oil is a significant component in manufacturing and transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our profit margins. Changes in U.S. trade policies, including modifications to import tariffs and existing trade policies and agreements, have also had, and could continue to have a significant impact on our activities in foreign jurisdictions, and could adversely affect our reputation or results of operations. Our success depends on our global distribution facilities. We distribute our products to customers directly from the factory and through distribution centers located throughout the world. Our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies and growth, particularly in emerging markets, depends on the proper operation of our distribution facilities, the development or expansion of additional distribution capabilities and the timely performance of services by third parties (including those involved in shipping product to and from our distribution facilities). Our distribution facilities have in the past and could in the future be interrupted by information technology problems, disasters such as earthquakes or fires or outbreaks of disease or government actions taken to mitigate their spread. Any significant failure in our distribution facilities could result in an adverse effect on our business. We maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from adverse effects caused by significant disruptions in our distribution facilities. Legal, Regulatory, and Compliance Risks We are subject to a complex array of laws and regulations and litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a multinational corporation with operations and distribution channels throughout the world, we are subject to and must comply with extensive laws and regulations in the United States and other jurisdictions in which we have operations and distribution channels. If we or our employees, agents, suppliers, and other partners fail to comply with any of these laws or regulations, such failure could subject us to fines, sanctions or other penalties that could negatively affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, laws, regulations and policies and the interpretation of such, can conflict among jurisdictions and compliance in one jurisdiction may result in legal or reputational risks in another jurisdiction. We are involved in various types of claims, lawsuits, regulatory proceedings and government investigations relating to our business, our products and the actions of our employees and representatives, including contractual and employment relationships, product liability, antitrust, trademark rights and a variety of other matters. It is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of any such legal or regulatory proceedings or investigations, and we could in the future incur judgments, fines or penalties, or enter into settlements of lawsuits and claims that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and negatively impact our reputation. The global nature of our business means legal and compliance risks, such as anti-bribery, anti-corruption, fraud, trade, environmental, competition, privacy and other regulatory matters, will continue to exist and additional legal proceedings and other contingencies have and will continue to arise from time to time, which could adversely affect us. In addition, the adoption of new laws or regulations, or changes in the interpretation of existing laws or regulations, may result in significant unanticipated legal and reputational risks. Moreover, the regulation of certain transactions we engage in, including those involving virtual goods and cryptocurrencies, remains in an early stage and subject to significant uncertainty. As a result, we are required to exercise our judgment as to whether or how certain laws or regulations apply, or may in the future 2023 FORM 10-K 19 apply, and it is possible that legislators, regulators and courts may disagree with our conclusions. Any current or future legal or regulatory proceedings could divert management's attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees. Changes to U.S. or other countries' trade policies and tariff and import/export regulations or our failure to comply with such regulations may have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the U.S. government's import and export policies, including trade restrictions, sanctions and countersanctions, increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, safeguards or customs restrictions, could require us to change the way we conduct business and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, changes in laws and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development and investment in the territories or countries where we currently sell our products or conduct our business could adversely affect our business. U.S. presidential administrations have instituted or proposed changes in trade policies that include the negotiation or termination of trade agreements, the imposition of higher tariffs on imports into the U.S., economic sanctions on individuals, corporations or countries, and other government regulations affecting trade between the U.S. and other countries where we conduct our business. It may be time-consuming and expensive for us to alter our business operations in order to adapt to or comply with any such changes. Changes or proposed changes in U.S. or other countries' trade policies may result in restrictions and economic disincentives on international trade. Tariffs and other changes in U.S. trade policy have in the past and could in the future trigger retaliatory actions by affected countries, and certain foreign governments have instituted or are considering imposing retaliatory measures on certain U.S. goods. Further, any emerging protectionist or nationalist trends either in the United States or in other countries could affect the trade environment. The Company, similar to many other multinational corporations, does a significant amount of business that would be impacted by changes to the trade policies of the United States and foreign countries (including governmental action related to tariffs, international trade agreements, or economic sanctions). Such changes have the potential to adversely impact the U.S. economy or certain sectors thereof or the economy of another country in which we conduct operations, our industry and the global demand for our products, and as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, many of our imported products are subject to duties, tariffs or quotas that affect the cost and quantity of various types of goods imported into the United States and other countries. Any country in which our products are produced or sold may eliminate, adjust or impose new quotas, duties, tariffs, safeguard measures, anti-dumping duties, cargo restrictions to prevent terrorism, restrictions on the transfer of currency, climate change legislation, product safety regulations or other charges or restrictions, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we are subject to the FCPA as well as the anti-corruption laws of other countries in which we operate. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, our employees, independent contractors, contract manufacturers, suppliers and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. Any such violation could result in sanctions or other penalties and have an adverse effect on our business, reputation and operating results. Failure to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. We periodically discover counterfeit reproductions of our products or products that otherwise infringe our intellectual property rights. If we are unsuccessful in enforcing our intellectual property rights, continued sales of these products could adversely affect our sales and our brand and could result in a shift of consumer preference away from our products. The actions we take to establish and protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others. We also may be unable to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as violations of proprietary rights. We may be subject to liability if third parties successfully claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. Defending infringement claims could be expensive and time-consuming and might result in our entering into costly license agreements. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development, manufacturing, use, importation and/or sale of certain products. We take various actions to prevent the unauthorized use and/or disclosure of our confidential information and intellectual property rights. These actions include contractual measures such as entering into non-disclosure and non-compete agreements and agreements relating to our collaborations with third parties and providing confidential information awareness training. Our controls and efforts to prevent unauthorized use and/or disclosure of confidential information and intellectual property rights might not always be effective. For example, confidential information related to business strategy, innovations, new technologies, mergers and acquisitions, unpublished financial results or personal data could be prematurely, inadvertently, or improperly used and/or disclosed, resulting in a loss of reputation, loss of intellectual property rights, a decline in our stock price and/or a negative impact on our market position, and could lead to damages, fines, penalties or injunctions. In addition, new products we offer, such as virtual goods, may raise various novel intellectual property law considerations, including adequacy and scope of assignment, licensing, transfer, copyright and other right-of-use issues. 2023 FORM 10-K 20 In addition, the laws of certain countries may not protect or allow enforcement of intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property rights, including outside the United States, and if we are unable to successfully protect our rights or resolve intellectual property conflicts with others, our business or financial condition may be adversely affected. We are subject to data security and privacy risks that could negatively affect our results, operations or reputation. In addition to our own sensitive and proprietary business information, we handle transactional and personal information about our wholesale customers and consumers and users of our digital experiences, which include online distribution channels and product engagement, adaptive products and personal fitness applications. Hackers and data thieves are increasingly sophisticated and operate social engineering, such as phishing, and large-scale, complex automated attacks that can evade detection for long periods of time. Any breach of our or our service providers' networks, or other vendor systems, may result in the loss of confidential business and financial data, misappropriation of our consumers', users' or employees' personal information or a disruption of our business. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, including unwanted media attention, impairment of our consumer and customer relationships, damage to our reputation; resulting in lost sales and consumers, fines, lawsuits, or significant legal and remediation expenses. We also may need to expend significant resources to protect against, respond to and/or redress problems caused by any breach. In addition, we must comply with increasingly complex and rigorous, and sometimes conflicting, regulatory standards enacted to protect business and personal data in the United States, Europe and elsewhere. For example, the European Union adopted the General Data Protection Regulation (the "GDPR"); the United Kingdom enacted the UK General Data Protection Regulation (which implements the GDPR into UK law); several states in the United States have passed data privacy laws; China enacted the Data Security Law and Personal Information Protection Law; and additional jurisdictions have adopted or are considering proposing or adopting similar regulations. These laws impose additional obligations on companies regarding the handling of personal data and provide certain individual privacy rights to persons whose data is stored. Compliance with existing, proposed and recently enacted laws and regulations can be costly and time consuming, and any failure to comply with these regulatory standards could subject us to legal, operational and reputational risks. Misuse of or failure to secure personal information could also result in violation of data privacy laws and regulations, proceedings against the Company by governmental entities or others, imposition of fines by governmental authorities and damage to our reputation and credibility and could have a negative impact on revenues and profits. We could be subject to changes in tax rates, adoption of new tax laws, additional tax liabilities or increased volatility in our effective tax rate. We earn a substantial portion of our income in foreign countries and, as such, we are subject to the tax laws in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Current economic and political conditions make tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation and application, in any jurisdiction subject to significant change. Proposals to reform U.S. and foreign tax laws could significantly impact how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed on global earnings and could increase the U.S. corporate tax rate. For example, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the G20 Inclusive Framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (the "Inclusive Framework") has put forth two proposals—Pillar One and Pillar Two—that revise the existing profit allocation and nexus rules and ensure a minimal level of taxation, respectively. On December 12, 2022, the European Union member states agreed to implement the Inclusive Framework's global corporate minimum tax rate of 15%. Other countries are also actively considering changes to their tax laws to adopt certain parts of the Inclusive Framework's proposals. Although we cannot predict whether or in what form these proposals will be enacted into law, these changes, if enacted into law, could have an adverse impact on our effective tax rate, income tax expense and cash flows. Portions of our operations are subject to a reduced tax rate or are under a tax holiday. We also utilize tax rulings and other agreements to obtain certainty in treatment of certain tax matters. Tax holidays and rulings can expire from time to time and may be extended when certain conditions are met, or terminated if certain conditions are not met. The impact of any changes in conditions would be the loss of certainty in treatment thus potentially impacting our effective income tax rate. For example, in January 2019, the European Commission opened a formal investigation to examine whether the Netherlands has breached State Aid rules when granting certain tax rulings to the Company. If this matter is adversely resolved, the Netherlands may be required to assess additional amounts with respect to prior periods, and the Company's income taxes related to prior periods in the Netherlands could increase. We are also subject to the examination of our tax returns by the United States Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax provisions are adequate, the final determination of tax audits and any related disputes could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of audits or related disputes could have an adverse effect on our financial statements for the period or periods for which the applicable final determinations are made. For example, we and our subsidiaries are also engaged in a number of intercompany transactions across multiple tax jurisdictions. Although we believe we have clearly reflected the economics of these transactions 2023 FORM 10-K 21 and the proper local transfer pricing documentation is in place, tax authorities may propose and sustain adjustments that could result in changes that may impact our mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates. Failure of our contractors or our licensees' contractors to comply with our code of conduct, local laws and other standards could harm our business. We have license agreements that permit independent parties to manufacture or contract for the manufacture of products using our intellectual property. We require the contractors that directly manufacture our products and our licensees that make products using our intellectual property (including, indirectly, their contract manufacturers) to comply with a code of conduct and other environmental, human rights, health and safety standards for the benefit of workers. We also require our contract manufacturers and the contractors of our licensees to comply with applicable standards for product safety. Notwithstanding their contractual obligations, from time to time contractors may not comply with such standards or applicable local law or our licensees may fail to enforce such standards or applicable local law on their contractors. If one or more of our direct or indirect contractors violates or fails to comply with, or is accused of violating or failing to comply with, such standards and laws, this could harm our reputation or result in a product recall and, as a result, could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. Negative publicity regarding production methods, alleged unethical or illegal practices or workplace or related conditions of any of our suppliers, manufacturers or licensees could adversely affect our brand image and sales, force us to locate alternative suppliers, manufacturers or licenses or result in the imposition of additional regulations, including new or additional quotas, tariffs, sanctions, product safety regulations or other regulatory measures, by governmental authorities. Risks Related to Our Securities, Investments and Liquidity Our financial results may be adversely affected if substantial investments in businesses and operations fail to produce expected returns. From time to time, we may invest in technology, business infrastructure, new businesses or capabilities, product offering and manufacturing innovation and expansion of existing businesses, such as our NIKE Direct operations, which require substantial cash investments and management attention. We believe cost-effective investments are essential to business growth and profitability; however, significant investments are subject to typical risks and uncertainties inherent in developing a new business or expanding an existing business. The failure of any significant investment to provide expected returns or profitability could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and divert management attention from more profitable business operations. See also " Our NIKE Direct operations have required and will continue to require a substantial investment and commitment of resources and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties ." The sale of a large number of shares of common stock by our principal shareholder could depress the market price of our common stock. As of June 30, 2023, Swoosh, LLC beneficially owned approximately 77% of our Class A Common Stock. If, on June 30, 2023, all of these shares were converted into Class B Common Stock, Swoosh, LLC's commensurate ownership percentage of our Class B Common Stock would be approximately 16%. The shares are available for resale, subject to the requirements of the U.S. securities laws and the terms of the limited liability company agreement governing Swoosh, LLC. The sale or prospect of a sale of a substantial number of these shares could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Swoosh, LLC was formed by Philip H. Knight, our Chairman Emeritus, to hold the majority of his shares of Class A Common Stock. Mr. Knight does not have voting rights with respect to Swoosh, LLC, although Travis Knight, his son and a NIKE director, has a significant role in the management of the Class A Common Stock owned by Swoosh, LLC. Changes in our credit ratings or macroeconomic conditions may affect our liquidity, increasing borrowing costs and limiting our financing options. Our long-term debt is currently rated Investment Grade by Standard & Poor's and Moody's Investors Service. If our credit ratings are lowered, borrowing costs for our existing facilities or for future long-term debt or short-term credit facilities may increase and our financing options, including our access to credit or capital markets, could be adversely affected. We may also be subject to restrictive covenants that would reduce our flexibility to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, make restricted payments, pledge assets as security, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees and acquisitions, undergo fundamental changes and enter into transactions with affiliates. Failure to comply with such covenants could result in a default, and as a result, the commitments of our lenders under our credit agreements may be terminated and the maturity of amounts owed may be accelerated. In addition, macroeconomic conditions, such as increased volatility or disruption in the credit or capital markets, could adversely affect our ability to refinance existing debt. If our internal controls are ineffective, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud. Even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience 2023 FORM 10-K 22 difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. If our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting estimates prove to be incorrect, our operating results could be adversely affected. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations". The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities and equity, and the amount of revenues and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition, inventory reserves, hedge accounting for derivatives, income taxes and other contingencies. Our operating results may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the price of our Class B Common Stock. Anti-takeover provisions may impair an acquisition of the Company or reduce the price of our common stock. There are provisions within our articles of incorporation and Oregon law intended to protect shareholder interests by providing the Board of Directors a means to attempt to deny coercive takeover attempts or to negotiate with a potential acquirer in order to obtain more favorable terms. Such provisions include a control share acquisition statute, a freeze-out statute, two classes of stock that vote separately on certain issues, and the fact that holders of Class A Common Stock elect three-quarters of the Board of Directors rounded down to the next whole number. However, such provisions could discourage, delay or prevent an unsolicited merger, acquisition or other change in control of the Company that some shareholders might believe to be in their best interests or in which shareholders might receive a premium for their common stock over the prevailing market price. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests for control of the Company. We may fail to meet market expectations, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. Our Class B Common Stock is traded publicly, and at any given time various securities analysts follow our financial results and issue reports on us. These reports include information about our historical financial results as well as analysts' opinions of our future performance, which may, in part, be based upon any guidance we have provided. Analysts' estimates are often different from our estimates or expectations. If our operating results are below the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. In the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against NIKE and other companies following a decline in the market price of their securities. If our stock price is volatile for any reason, we may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Any litigation could result in reputational damage, substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources needed to successfully run our business. 2023 FORM 10-K 23

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

OVERVIEW NIKE designs, develops, markets and sells athletic footwear, apparel, equipment, accessories and services worldwide. We are the largest seller of athletic footwear and apparel in the world. We sell our products through NIKE Direct operations, which is comprised of both NIKE-owned retail stores and sales through our digital platforms (also referred to as "NIKE Brand Digital"), to wholesale accounts and to a mix of independent distributors, licensees and sales representatives in nearly all countries around the world. Our goal is to deliver value to our shareholders by building a profitable global portfolio of branded footwear, apparel, equipment and accessories businesses. Our strategy is to achieve long-term revenue growth by creating innovative, "must-have" products, building deep personal consumer connections with our brands and delivering compelling consumer experiences through digital platforms and at retail. Through the Consumer Direct Acceleration strategy, we are focused on creating the marketplace of the future with more premium, consistent and seamless consumer experiences, leading with digital and our owned stores, as well as select wholesale partners. In addition, our product creation and marketing organizations are aligned to a consumer construct focused on sports dimensions through Men's, Women's and Kids', which allows us to better serve consumer needs. We continue to invest in a new Enterprise Resource Planning Platform, data and analytics, demand sensing, insight gathering, and other areas to create an end-to-end technology foundation, which we believe will further accelerate our digital transformation. We believe this unified approach will accelerate growth and unlock more efficiency for our business, while driving speed and responsiveness as we serve consumers globally. FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS • In fiscal 2023, NIKE, Inc. achieved record Revenues of $51.2 billion, which increased 10% and 16% on a reported and currency-neutral basis, respectively • NIKE Direct revenues grew 14% from $18.7 billion in fiscal 2022 to $21.3 billion in fiscal 2023, and represented approximately 44% of total NIKE Brand revenues for fiscal 2023 • Gross margin for the fiscal year decreased 250 basis points to 43.5% primarily driven by higher product costs, higher markdowns and unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates, partially offset by strategic pricing actions • Inventories as of May 31, 2023 were $8.5 billion, flat compared to the prior year, driven by the actions we took throughout fiscal 2023 to manage inventory levels • We returned $7.5 billion to our shareholders in fiscal 2023 through share repurchases and dividends • Return on Invested Capital ("ROIC") as of May 31, 2023 was 31.5% compared to 46.5% as of May 31, 2022. ROIC is considered a non-GAAP financial measure, see "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures" for further information. For discussion related to the results of operations and changes in financial condition for fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 refer to Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our fiscal 2022 Form 10-K, which was filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission on July 21, 2022. CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND MARKET DYNAMICS • Consumer Spending: Our fiscal 2023 growth in Revenues reflects strong demand for our products despite ongoing uncertainty in the global economy. We will continue to closely monitor macroeconomic conditions, including potential impacts of inflation and rising interest rates on consumer behavior. • Inflationary Pressures: Inflationary pressures, including higher product input, freight and logistics costs negatively impacted gross margin for fiscal 2023. The strategic pricing actions we have taken partially offset the impacts of these higher costs. • Supply Chain Volatility: Supply chain challenges, macroeconomic conditions and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the manufacturing of our product disrupted the flow of seasonal product in fiscal 2022 and the first quarter of fiscal 2023, resulting in elevated inventory levels at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2023. Throughout fiscal 2023, we took action to reduce excess inventory by decreasing future inventory purchases and increasing promotional activity. These actions, along with the stabilization of inventory transit times in the second and third quarters of fiscal 2023, resulted in the normalization of the seasonal flow of product in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023. 2023 FORM 10-K 28 • COVID-19 Impacts in Greater China: During the first and second quarters of fiscal 2023, we managed through continued temporary store closures and reduced retail traffic in Greater China, primarily due to COVID-19 related local government restrictions. At the beginning of the third quarter of fiscal 2023, the government mandated restrictions were lifted and we experienced improvement in physical retail traffic. • Foreign Currency Impacts: As a global company with significant operations outside the United States, we are exposed to risk arising from foreign currency exchange rates. For fiscal 2023, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates negatively impacted our reported Revenues by approximately $2,859 million, reducing our revenue growth rate to 10% on a reported basis from 16% on a currency-neutral basis. Foreign currency impacts, net of hedges, also reduced our reported Income before income taxes by approximately $1,023 million. For further information, refer to "Foreign Currency Exposures and Hedging Practices". The operating environment could remain volatile in fiscal 2024 as the risk exists that worsening macroeconomic conditions could have a material adverse impact on our future revenue growth as well as overall profitability. For more information refer to Item 1A Risk Factors, within Part I, Item 1. Business. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS During the first and second quarters of fiscal 2023, we completed the sale of our entity in Chile and our entities in Argentina and Uruguay to third-party distributors, respectively. Now that we have completed the shift from a wholesale and direct to consumer operating model to a distributor model within our Central and South America ("CASA") territory, we expect consolidated NIKE, Inc. and Asia Pacific & Latin America ("APLA") revenue growth will be reduced due to different commercial terms. However, over time we expect the future operating model to have a favorable impact on our overall profitability as we reduce selling and administrative expenses, as well as reduce exposure to foreign exchange rate volatility. USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we discuss non-GAAP financial measures, which should be considered in addition to, and not in lieu of, the financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. References to these measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for other financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Management uses these non-GAAP measures when evaluating the Company's performance, including when making financial and operating decisions. Additionally, management believes these non-GAAP financial measures provide investors with additional financial information that should be considered when assessing our underlying business performance and trends. Earnings Before Interest and Taxes ("EBIT") : Calculated as Net income before Interest expense (income), net and Income tax expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Total NIKE, Inc. EBIT for fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022 is as follows: EBIT Margin : Calculated as total NIKE, Inc. EBIT divided by total NIKE, Inc. Revenues. Our EBIT Margin calculation for fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022 is as follows: 2023 FORM 10-K 29 Return on Invested Capital ("ROIC") : Represents a performance measure that management believes is useful information in understanding the Company's ability to effectively manage invested capital. Our ROIC calculation as of May 31, 2023 and 2022 is as follows: (1) Equals Earnings before interest and taxes multiplied by the effective tax rate as of the respective quarter end. (2) Total debt includes the following: 1) Current portion of long-term debt, 2) Notes Payable, 3) Current portion of operating lease liabilities, 4) Long-term debt and 5) Operating lease liabilities. Currency-neutral revenues : Currency-neutral revenues enhance visibility to underlying business trends, excluding the impact of translation arising from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Currency-neutral revenues are calculated using actual exchange rates in use during the comparative prior year period in place of the exchange rates in use during the current period. Wholesale equivalent revenues : References to wholesale equivalent revenues are intended to provide context as to the total size of our NIKE Brand market footprint if we had no NIKE Direct operations. NIKE Brand wholesale equivalent revenues consist of (1) sales to external wholesale customers and (2) internal sales from our wholesale operations to our NIKE Direct operations, which are charged at prices comparable to those charged to external wholesale customers. COMPARABLE STORE SALES Comparable store sales : This key metric, which excludes NIKE Brand Digital sales, comprises revenues from NIKE-owned in-line and factory stores for which all three of the following requirements have been met: (1) the store has been open at least one year, (2) square footage has not changed by more than 15% within the past year and (3) the store has not been permanently repositioned within the past year. Comparable store sales includes revenues from stores that were temporarily closed during the period as a result of COVID-19. Comparable store sales represents a performance metric that we believe is useful information for management and investors in understanding the performance of our established NIKE-owned in-line and factory stores. Management considers this metric when making financial and operating decisions. The method of calculating comparable store sales varies across the retail industry. As a result, our calculation of this metric may not be comparable to similarly titled metrics used by other companies. 2023 FORM 10-K 30 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2023 FORM 10-K 31 CONSOLIDATED OPERATING RESULTS REVENUES (1) The percent change excluding currency changes and the presentation of wholesale equivalent revenues represent non-GAAP financial measures. For further information, see "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures". (2) Global Brand Divisions revenues include NIKE Brand licensing and other miscellaneous revenues that are not part of a geographic operating segment. (3) Corporate revenues primarily consist of foreign currency hedge gains and losses related to revenues generated by entities within the NIKE Brand geographic operating segments and Converse, but managed through our central foreign exchange risk management program. (4) As a result of the Consumer Direct Acceleration strategy, announced in fiscal 2021, the Company is now organized around a consumer construct of Men's, Women's and Kids'. Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2022, unisex products are classified within Men's, and Jordan Brand revenues are separately reported. Certain prior year amounts were reclassified to conform to fiscal 2022 presentation. These changes had no impact on previously reported consolidated results of operations or shareholders' equity. (5) Others include products not allocated to Men's, Women's, NIKE Kids' and Jordan Brand, as well as certain adjustments that are not allocated to products designated by consumer. 2023 FORM 10-K 32 FISCAL 2023 NIKE BRAND REVENUE HIGHLIGHTS The following tables present NIKE Brand revenues disaggregated by reportable operating segment, distribution channel and major product line: FISCAL 2023 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2022 • NIKE, Inc. Revenues were $51.2 billion in fiscal 2023, which increased 10% and 16% compared to fiscal 2022 on a reported and currency-neutral basis, respectively. The increase was due to higher revenues in North America, Europe, Middle East & Africa ("EMEA"), APLA and Greater China, which contributed approximately 7, 6, 2 and 1 percentage points to NIKE, Inc. Revenues, respectively. • NIKE Brand revenues, which represented over 90% of NIKE, Inc. Revenues, increased 10% and 16% on a reported and currency-neutral basis, respectively. This increase was primarily due to higher revenues in Men's, the Jordan Brand, Women's and Kids' which grew 17%, 35%,11% and 10%, respectively, on a wholesale equivalent basis. • NIKE Brand footwear revenues increased 20% on a currency-neutral basis, due to higher revenues in Men's, the Jordan Brand, Women's and Kids'. Unit sales of footwear increased 13%, while higher average selling price ("ASP") per pair contributed approximately 7 percentage points of footwear revenue growth. Higher ASP was primarily due to higher full-price ASP, net of discounts, on a wholesale equivalent basis, and growth in the size of our NIKE Direct business, partially offset by lower NIKE Direct ASP. • NIKE Brand apparel revenues increased 8% on a currency-neutral basis, primarily due to higher revenues in Men's. Unit sales of apparel increased 4%, while higher ASP per unit contributed approximately 4 percentage points of apparel revenue growth. Higher ASP was primarily due to higher full-price ASP and growth in the size of our NIKE Direct business, partially offset by lower NIKE Direct ASP, reflecting higher promotional activity. • NIKE Direct revenues increased 14% from $18.7 billion in fiscal 2022 to $21.3 billion in fiscal 2023. On a currency-neutral basis, NIKE Direct revenues increased 20% primarily driven by NIKE Brand Digital sales growth of 24%, comparable store sales growth of 14% and the addition of new stores. For further information regarding comparable store sales, including the definition, see "Comparable Store Sales". NIKE Brand Digital sales were $12.6 billion for fiscal 2023 compared to $10.7 billion for fiscal 2022. 2023 FORM 10-K 33 GROSS MARGIN FISCAL 2023 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2022 For fiscal 2023, our consolidated gross profit increased 4% to $22,292 million compared to $21,479 million for fiscal 2022. Gross margin decreased 250 basis points to 43.5% for fiscal 2023 compared to 46.0% for fiscal 2022 due to the following: The decrease in gross margin for fiscal 2023 was primarily due to: • Higher NIKE Brand product costs, on a wholesale equivalent basis, primarily due to higher input costs and elevated inbound freight and logistics costs as well as product mix; • Lower margin in our NIKE Direct business, driven by higher promotional activity to liquidate inventory in the current period compared to lower promotional activity in the prior period resulting from lower available inventory supply; • Unfavorable changes in net foreign currency exchange rates, including hedges; and • Lower off-price margin, on a wholesale equivalent basis. This was partially offset by: • Higher NIKE Brand full-price ASP, net of discounts, on a wholesale equivalent basis, due primarily to strategic pricing actions and product mix; and • Lower other costs, primarily due to higher inventory obsolescence reserves recognized in Greater China in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022. TOTAL SELLING AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE (1) Demand creation expense consists of advertising and promotion costs, including costs of endorsement contracts, complimentary product, television, digital and print advertising and media costs, brand events and retail brand presentation. FISCAL 2023 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2022 Demand creation expense increased 5% for fiscal 2023, primarily due to higher advertising and marketing expense and higher sports marketing expense. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates decreased Demand creation expense by approximately 4 percentage points. Operating overhead expense increased 12%, primarily due to higher wage-related expenses, NIKE Direct variable costs, strategic technology enterprise investments and other administrative costs. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates decreased Operating overhead expense by approximately 3 percentage points. 2023 FORM 10-K 34 OTHER (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET Other (income) expense, net comprises foreign currency conversion gains and losses from the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies and the impact of certain foreign currency derivative instruments, as well as unusual or non-operating transactions that are outside the normal course of business. FISCAL 2023 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2022 Other (income) expense, net increased from $181 million of other income, net in fiscal 2022 to $280 million in the current fiscal year, primarily due to a net favorable change in foreign currency conversion gains and losses, including hedges, and the one-time charge related to the deconsolidation of our Russian operations recognized in the prior year. This increase was partially offset by net unfavorable activity related to our strategic distributor partnership transition within APLA, including the loss recognized upon the completion of the sale of our entities in Argentina and Uruguay to a third-party distributor in the second quarter of fiscal 2023. For more information related to our distributor partnership transition within APLA, see Note 18 — Acquisitions and Divestitures within the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We estimate the combination of the translation of foreign currency-denominated profits from our international businesses, and the year-over-year change in foreign currency-related gains and losses included in Other (income) expense, net had an unfavorable impact on our Income before income taxes of $1,023 million for fiscal 2023. INCOME TAXES FISCAL 2023 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2022 Our effective tax rate was 18.2% for fiscal 2023, compared to 9.1% for fiscal 2022, primarily due to decreased benefits from stock-based compensation and a non-cash, one-time benefit in the prior year related to the onshoring of certain non-U.S. intangible property ownership rights. On August 16, 2022, the U.S. government enacted the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 that includes, among other provisions, changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system, including a fifteen percent minimum tax based on "adjusted financial statement income," which is effective for NIKE beginning June 1, 2023. Based on our current analysis of the provisions, we do not expect these tax law changes to have a material impact on our financial statements; however, we will continue to evaluate their impact as further information becomes available. 2023 FORM 10-K 35 OPERATING SEGMENTS As discussed in Note 15 — Operating Segments and Related Information in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, our operating segments are evidence of the structure of the Company's internal organization. The NIKE Brand segments are defined by geographic regions for operations participating in NIKE Brand sales activity. The breakdown of Revenues is as follows: (1)    The percent change excluding currency changes represents a non-GAAP financial measure. For further information, see "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures". (2)    For additional information on the transition of our NIKE Brand businesses within our CASA territory to a third-party distributor, see Note 18 — Acquisitions and Divestitures of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report. (3)    Global Brand Divisions revenues include NIKE Brand licensing and other miscellaneous revenues that are not part of a geographic operating segment. (4)    Corporate revenues primarily consist of foreign currency hedge gains and losses related to revenues generated by entities within the NIKE Brand geographic operating segments and Converse, but managed through our central foreign exchange risk management program. The primary financial measure used by the Company to evaluate performance is Earnings Before Interest and Taxes ("EBIT"). As discussed in Note 15 — Operating Segments and Related Information in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, certain corporate costs are not included in EBIT. The breakdown of EBIT is as follows: (1)    Total NIKE Brand EBIT, Total NIKE, Inc. EBIT and EBIT Margin represent non-GAAP financial measures. See "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures" for further information. 2023 FORM 10-K 36 NORTH AMERICA FISCAL 2023 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2022 • North America revenues increased 18% on a currency-neutral basis, primarily due to higher revenues in Men's and the Jordan Brand. NIKE Direct revenues increased 18%, driven by strong digital sales growth of 23%, comparable store sales growth of 9% and the addition of new stores. • Footwear revenues increased 22% on a currency-neutral basis, primarily due to higher revenues in Men's and the Jordan Brand. Unit sales of footwear increased 17%, while higher ASP per pair contributed approximately 5 percentage points of footwear revenue growth. Higher ASP per pair was primarily due to higher full-price ASP and growth in NIKE Direct, partially offset by lower NIKE Direct ASP, reflecting higher promotional activity as well as lower available inventory supply in the prior period and a lower mix of full-price sales. • Apparel revenues increased 9% on a currency-neutral basis, primarily due to higher revenues in Men's. Unit sales of apparel increased 7%, while higher ASP per unit contributed approximately 2 percentage points of apparel revenue growth. Higher ASP per unit was primarily due to higher full-price ASP and growth in NIKE Direct, partially offset by lower NIKE Direct ASP, reflecting higher promotional activity. Reported EBIT increased 7% due to higher revenues and the following: • Gross margin contraction of 310 basis points primarily due to higher product costs, reflecting higher input costs and inbound freight and logistics costs and product mix, lower margins in NIKE Direct due to higher promotional activity and a lower mix of full-price sales. This was partially offset by higher full-price ASP, net of discounts, largely due to strategic pricing actions and product mix. • Selling and administrative expense increased 15% due to higher operating overhead and demand creation expense. The increase in operating overhead expense was primarily due to higher wage-related costs and higher NIKE Direct variable costs, in part due to new store additions. Demand creation expense increased primarily due to higher sports marketing expense and an increase in digital marketing. 2023 FORM 10-K 37 EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA FISCAL 2023 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2022 • EMEA revenues increased 21% on a currency-neutral basis, due to higher revenues in Men's, the Jordan Brand, Women's and Kids'. NIKE Direct revenues increased 33%, driven primarily by strong digital sales growth of 43% and comparable store sales growth of 22%. • Footwear revenues increased 25% on a currency-neutral basis, due to higher revenues in Men's, the Jordan Brand, Women's and Kids'. Unit sales of footwear increased 9%, while higher ASP per pair contributed approximately 16 percentage points of footwear revenue growth. Higher ASP per pair was primarily due to higher full-price ASP and growth in NIKE Direct. • Apparel revenues increased 14% on a currency-neutral basis, primarily due to higher revenues in Men's. Unit sales of apparel increased 2%, while higher ASP per unit contributed approximately 12 percentage points of apparel revenue growth. Higher ASP per unit was primarily due to higher full-price ASP and growth in NIKE Direct, partially offset by lower NIKE Direct ASP, reflecting higher promotional activity. Reported EBIT increased 7% due to higher revenues and the following: • Gross margin contraction of 60 basis points primarily due to higher product costs reflecting higher input costs, inbound freight and logistics costs and product mix, higher other costs and unfavorable changes in standard foreign currency exchange rates. This was partially offset by higher full-price ASP, net of discounts, primarily due to strategic pricing actions and product mix. • Selling and administrative expense increased 4% due to higher operating overhead and demand creation expense. Operating overhead expense increased primarily due to higher wage-related expenses and other administrative costs, partially offset by favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Demand creation expense increased primarily due to higher advertising and marketing expense, partially offset by favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 2023 FORM 10-K 38 GREATER CHINA FISCAL 2023 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2022 • Greater China revenues increased 4% on a currency-neutral basis, primarily due to higher revenues in the Jordan Brand, partially offset by lower revenues in Men's and Women's. NIKE Direct revenues increased 5%, due to comparable store sales growth of 9% and the addition of new stores, partially offset by digital sales declines of 4%. • Footwear revenues increased 8% on a currency-neutral basis, primarily due to higher revenues in the Jordan Brand and Men's. Unit sales of footwear increased 7%, while higher ASP per pair contributed approximately 1 percentage point of footwear revenue growth. Higher ASP per pair was primarily due to higher NIKE Direct ASP and a higher mix of full-price sales, largely offset by a lower mix of NIKE Direct sales. • Apparel revenues decreased 7% on a currency-neutral basis, primarily due to lower revenues in Men's and Women's. Unit sales of apparel decreased 8%, while higher ASP per unit contributed approximately 1 percentage point of apparel revenue growth. Higher ASP per unit was primarily due to a higher mix of full price sales, partially offset by lower off-price ASP. Reported EBIT decreased 3% due to lower revenues and the following: • Gross margin expansion of approximately 140 basis points, primarily due to higher inventory obsolescence reserves recognized in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022, favorable changes in standard foreign currency exchange rates and higher full-price ASP, net of discounts, in part due to product mix. This was partially offset by higher product costs reflecting higher input costs and product mix. • Selling and administrative expense was flat due to increased operating overhead expense offset by lower demand creation expense. The increase in operating overhead expense was primarily due to higher wage-related expenses and other administrative costs, partially offset by favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Demand creation expense decreased primarily due to lower retail brand presentation costs, lower digital marketing and favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates, partially offset by higher advertising and marketing expense. 2023 FORM 10-K 39 ASIA PACIFIC & LATIN AMERICA As discussed previously, our NIKE Brand business in Brazil transitioned to a distributor operating model during fiscal 2021. We completed the sale of our entity in Chile and our entities in Argentina and Uruguay to third-party distributors in the first and second quarters of fiscal 2023, respectively. The impacts of closing these transactions are included within Corporate and are not reflected in the APLA operating segment results. This completed the transition of our NIKE Brand businesses within our CASA marketplace, which now reflects a full distributor operating model. For more information see Note 18 — Acquisitions and Divestitures within the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. FISCAL 2023 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2022 • APLA revenues increased 17% on a currency-neutral basis due to higher revenues across nearly all territories, led by Southeast Asia and India, Korea and Japan. The increase was partially offset by a decline in our CASA territory. Within our CASA territory, the transition of our Chile, Argentina and Uruguay entities to a third-party distributor operating model reduced APLA revenue growth by approximately 5 percentage points. Revenues increased primarily due to growth in Men's, Women's and the Jordan Brand. NIKE Direct revenues increased 22%, driven by digital sales growth of 23% and comparable store sales growth of 28%. • Footwear revenues increased 19% on a currency-neutral basis, primarily due to higher revenues in Men's, Women's and the Jordan Brand. Unit sales of footwear increased 16%, while higher ASP per pair contributed approximately 3 percentage points of footwear revenue growth. Higher ASP per pair was primarily due to higher full-price ASP and growth in NIKE Direct, partially offset by lower NIKE Direct ASP. • Apparel revenues increased 13% on a currency-neutral basis, primarily due to higher revenues in Men's. Unit sales of apparel increased 9%, while higher ASP per unit contributed approximately 4 percentage points of apparel revenue growth. Higher ASP per unit was primarily due to higher full-price and off-price ASPs, partially offset by lower NIKE Direct ASP. Reported EBIT increased 2% due to higher revenues and the following: • Gross margin contraction of approximately 190 basis points primarily due to higher product costs, reflecting product mix and higher input costs, as well as unfavorable changes in standard foreign currency exchange rates. This was partially offset by higher full-price ASP, net of discounts, due to product mix and strategic pricing actions. • Selling and administrative expense increased 8% due to higher operating overhead and demand creation expense. Operating overhead expense increased primarily due to higher wage-related expenses and an increase in NIKE Direct variable costs, partially offset by favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Demand creation expense increased primarily due to higher sports marketing expense and higher advertising and marketing expense, partially offset by favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 2023 FORM 10-K 40 GLOBAL BRAND DIVISIONS Global Brand Divisions primarily represent demand creation and operating overhead expense, including product creation and design expenses that are centrally managed for the NIKE Brand, as well as costs associated with NIKE Direct global digital operations and enterprise technology. Global Brand Divisions revenues include NIKE Brand licensing and other miscellaneous revenues that are not part of a geographic operating segment. FISCAL 2023 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2022 Global Brand Divisions' loss before interest and taxes increased 14% for fiscal 2023 primarily due to a 12% increase in selling and administrative expense from higher operating overhead expense largely driven by higher wage-related costs and strategic technology enterprise investments. CONVERSE (1)    Other revenues consist of territories serviced by third-party licensees who pay royalties to Converse for the use of its registered trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We do not own the Converse trademarks in Japan and accordingly do not earn revenues in Japan. FISCAL 2023 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2022 • Converse revenues increased 8% on a currency-neutral basis for fiscal 2023 due to revenue growth in North America, Western Europe and licensee markets, partially offset by declines in Asia. Combined unit sales within the wholesale and direct to consumer channels increased 1% while ASP increased 6%, driven by strategic pricing actions in Western Europe and North America. • Direct to consumer revenues increased 8% on a currency-neutral basis, led by strong digital sales growth in North America. • Wholesale revenues increased 7% on a currency-neutral basis, as growth in North America and Western Europe was partially offset by declines in Asia due to marketplace dynamics in China. Reported EBIT increased 1% due to higher revenues and the following: • Gross margin expansion of approximately 50 basis points as higher full-price ASP, net of discounts, lower other costs, and growth in licensee revenues were partially offset by higher product costs, lower margins in direct to consumer in part reflecting increased promotional activity, and unfavorable changes in standard foreign currency exchange rates. • Selling and administrative expense increased 7% due to higher operating overhead and demand creation expense. Operating overhead expense increased primarily as a result of higher wage-related expenses. Demand creation expense increased as a result of higher advertising and marketing costs, partially offset by lower retail brand presentation costs. 2023 FORM 10-K 41 CORPORATE Corporate revenues primarily consist of foreign currency hedge gains and losses related to revenues generated by entities within the NIKE Brand geographic operating segments and Converse, but managed through our central foreign exchange risk management program. The Corporate loss before interest and taxes primarily consists of unallocated general and administrative expenses, including expenses associated with centrally managed departments; depreciation and amortization related to our corporate headquarters; unallocated insurance, benefit and compensation programs, including stock-based compensation; and certain foreign currency gains and losses. In addition to the foreign currency gains and losses recognized in Corporate revenues, foreign currency results in Corporate include gains and losses resulting from the difference between actual foreign currency exchange rates and standard rates used to record non-functional currency denominated product purchases within the NIKE Brand geographic operating segments and Converse; related foreign currency hedge results; conversion gains and losses arising from remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities in non-functional currencies; and certain other foreign currency derivative instruments. FISCAL 2023 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2022 Corporate's loss before interest and taxes increased $621 million during fiscal 2023, primarily due to the following: • an unfavorable change of $371 million primarily related to higher wage and other professional services expenses, reported as a component of consolidated Operating overhead expense; • an unfavorable change of $352 million related to the difference between actual foreign currency exchange rates and standard foreign currency exchange rates assigned to the NIKE Brand geographic operating segments and Converse, net of hedge gains and losses; these results are reported as a component of consolidated gross margin; • an unfavorable change of $45 million largely due to net unfavorable activity related to our strategic distributor partnership transition within APLA, including the loss recognized upon completion of the sale our entities in Argentina and Uruguay to a third-party distributor in the second quarter of fiscal 2023. This was partially offset by the one-time charge related to the deconsolidation of our Russian operations recognized in the prior year, with the net amount of these activities reported as a component of consolidated Other (income) expense, net; and • a favorable change in net foreign currency gains and losses of $174 million related to the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies and the impact of certain foreign currency derivative instruments, reported as a component of consolidated Other (income) expense, net. FOREIGN CURRENCY EXPOSURES AND HEDGING PRACTICES OVERVIEW As a global company with significant operations outside the United States, in the normal course of business we are exposed to risk arising from changes in currency exchange rates. Our primary foreign currency exposures arise from the recording of transactions denominated in non-functional currencies and the translation of foreign currency denominated results of operations, financial position and cash flows into U.S. Dollars. Our foreign exchange risk management program is intended to lessen both the positive and negative effects of currency fluctuations on our consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We manage global foreign exchange risk centrally on a portfolio basis to address those risks material to NIKE, Inc. We manage these exposures by taking advantage of natural offsets and currency correlations existing within the portfolio and, where practical and material, by hedging a portion of the remaining exposures using derivative instruments such as forward contracts and options. As described below, the implementation of the NIKE Trading Company ("NTC") and our foreign currency adjustment program enhanced our ability to manage our foreign exchange risk by increasing the natural offsets and currency correlation benefits existing within our portfolio of foreign exchange exposures. Our hedging policy is designed to partially or entirely offset the impact of exchange rate changes on the underlying net exposures being hedged. Where exposures are hedged, our program has the effect of delaying the impact of exchange rate movements on our Consolidated Financial Statements; the length of the delay is dependent upon hedge horizons. We do not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. 2023 FORM 10-K 42 Refer to Note 4 — Fair Value Measurements and Note 12 — Risk Management and Derivatives in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional description of outstanding derivatives at each reported period end. TRANSACTIONAL EXPOSURES We conduct business in various currencies and have transactions which subject us to foreign currency risk. Our most significant transactional foreign currency exposures are: • Product Costs — NIKE's product costs are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currencies in the following ways: 1. Product purchases denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the transacting entity: a. Certain NIKE entities purchase product from the NTC, a wholly-owned sourcing hub that buys NIKE branded products from third-party factories, predominantly in U.S. Dollars. The NTC, whose functional currency is the U.S. Dollar, then sells the products to NIKE entities in their respective functional currencies. NTC sales to a NIKE entity with a different functional currency results in a foreign currency exposure for the NTC. b. Other NIKE entities purchase product directly from third-party factories in U.S. Dollars. These purchases generate a foreign currency exposure for those NIKE entities with a functional currency other than the U.S. Dollar. In both purchasing scenarios, a weaker U.S. Dollar reduces inventory costs incurred by NIKE whereas a stronger U.S. Dollar increases its cost. 2. Factory input costs: NIKE operates a foreign currency adjustment program with certain factories. The program is designed to more effectively manage foreign currency risk by assuming certain of the factories' foreign currency exposures, some of which are natural offsets to our existing foreign currency exposures. Under this program, our payments to these factories are adjusted for rate fluctuations in the basket of currencies ("factory currency exposure index") in which the labor, materials and overhead costs incurred by the factories in the production of NIKE branded products ("factory input costs") are denominated. As an offset to the impacts of the fluctuating U.S. Dollar on our non-functional currency denominated product purchases described above, a strengthening U.S. Dollar against the foreign currencies within the factory currency exposure indices reduces NIKE's U.S. Dollar inventory cost. Conversely, a weakening U.S. Dollar against the indexed foreign currencies increases our inventory cost. • Non-Functional Currency Denominated External Sales — A portion of our NIKE Brand and Converse revenues associated with European operations are earned in currencies other than the Euro (e.g., the British Pound) but are recognized at a subsidiary that uses the Euro as its functional currency. These sales generate a foreign currency exposure. • Other Costs — Non-functional currency denominated costs, such as endorsement contracts, also generate foreign currency risk, though to a lesser extent. • Non-Functional Currency Denominated Monetary Assets and Liabilities — Our global subsidiaries have various assets and liabilities, primarily receivables and payables, including intercompany receivables and payables, denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. These balance sheet items are subject to remeasurement which may create fluctuations in Other (income) expense, net within our Consolidated Statements of Income. MANAGING TRANSACTIONAL EXPOSURES Transactional exposures are managed on a portfolio basis within our foreign currency risk management program. We manage these exposures by taking advantage of natural offsets and currency correlations that exist within the portfolio and may also elect to use currency forward and option contracts to hedge the remaining effect of exchange rate fluctuations on probable forecasted future cash flows, including certain product cost exposures, non-functional currency denominated external sales and other costs described above. Generally, these are accounted for as cash flow hedges. 2023 FORM 10-K 43 Certain currency forward contracts used to manage the foreign exchange exposure of non-functional currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities subject to remeasurement are not formally designated as hedging instruments. Accordingly, changes in fair value of these instruments are recognized in Other (income) expense, net and are intended to offset the foreign currency impact of the remeasurement of the related non-functional currency denominated asset or liability being hedged. TRANSLATIONAL EXPOSURES Many of our foreign subsidiaries operate in functional currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates create volatility in our reported results as we are required to translate the balance sheets, operational results and cash flows of these subsidiaries into U.S. Dollars for consolidated reporting. The translation of foreign subsidiaries' non-U.S. Dollar denominated balance sheets into U.S. Dollars for consolidated reporting results in a cumulative translation adjustment to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) within Shareholders' equity. In the translation of our Consolidated Statements of Income, a weaker U.S. Dollar in relation to foreign functional currencies benefits our consolidated earnings whereas a stronger U.S. Dollar reduces our consolidated earnings. The impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on the translation of our consolidated Revenues was a detriment of approximately $2,859 million, $295 million and a benefit of approximately $893 million for the years ended May 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on the translation of our Income before income taxes was a detriment of approximately $824 million, $87 million and a benefit of approximately $260 million for the years ended May 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. MANAGING TRANSLATIONAL EXPOSURES To minimize the impact of translating foreign currency denominated revenues and expenses into U.S. Dollars for consolidated reporting, certain foreign subsidiaries use excess cash to purchase U.S. Dollar denominated available-for-sale investments. The variable future cash flows associated with the purchase and subsequent sale of these U.S. Dollar denominated investments at non-U.S. Dollar functional currency subsidiaries creates a foreign currency exposure that qualifies for hedge accounting under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"). We utilize forward contracts and/or options to mitigate the variability of the forecasted future purchases and sales of these U.S. Dollar investments. The combination of the purchase and sale of the U.S. Dollar investment and the hedging instrument has the effect of partially offsetting the year-over-year foreign currency translation impact on net earnings in the period the investments are sold. Hedges of the purchase of U.S. Dollar denominated available-for-sale investments are accounted for as cash flow hedges. We estimate the combination of translation of foreign currency-denominated profits from our international businesses and the year-over-year change in foreign currency related gains and losses included in Other (income) expense, net had an unfavorable impact of approximately $1,023 million and a favorable impact of approximately $132 million and $19 million on our Income before income taxes for the years ended May 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. NET INVESTMENTS IN FOREIGN SUBSIDIARIES We are also exposed to the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations on our investments in wholly-owned foreign subsidiaries denominated in a currency other than the U.S. Dollar, which could adversely impact the U.S. Dollar value of these investments and therefore the value of future repatriated earnings. We have, in the past, hedged and may, in the future, hedge net investment positions in certain foreign subsidiaries to mitigate the effects of foreign exchange fluctuations on these net investments. These hedges are accounted for as net investment hedges in accordance with U.S. GAAP. There were no outstanding net investment hedges as of May 31, 2023 and 2022. There were no cash flows from net investment hedge settlements for the years ended May 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES CASH FLOW ACTIVITY Cash provided (used) by operations was an inflow of $5,841 million for fiscal 2023, compared to $5,188 million for fiscal 2022. Net income, adjusted for non-cash items, generated $6,354 million of operating cash inflow for fiscal 2023, compared to $6,848 million for fiscal 2022. The net change in working capital and other assets and liabilities resulted in a decrease to Cash provided (used) by operations of $513 million for fiscal 2023 compared to a decrease of $1,660 million for fiscal 2022. For fiscal 2023, the net change in working capital compared to the prior year was impacted by unfavorable changes in Accounts payable, offset by favorable impacts from Inventories and Accounts receivable. These changes were, in part, due to reduced inventory purchases in the current period and timing of wholesale shipments. Further impacting these changes was a lower available supply of inventory in the prior year due to supply chain constraints. Cash provided (used) by investing activities was an inflow of $564 million for fiscal 2023, compared to an outflow of $1,524 million for fiscal 2022, primarily driven by the net change in short-term investments. For fiscal 2023, the net change in short-term 2023 FORM 10-K 44 investments (including sales, maturities and purchases) resulted in a cash inflow of $1,481 million compared to a cash outflow of $747 million for fiscal 2022. Additionally, we continue to invest in our infrastructure to support future growth, specifically focused around digital capabilities, our end-to-end technology foundation, our corporate facilities and improvements across our supply chain. Cash provided (used) by financing activities was an outflow of $7,447 million for fiscal 2023 compared to an outflow of $4,836 million for fiscal 2022. The increased outflow in fiscal 2023 was driven by higher share repurchases of $5,480 million for fiscal 2023 compared to $4,014 million for fiscal 2022, the repayment of $500 million of senior notes that matured in fiscal 2023, as well as lower proceeds from stock option exercises, which resulted in a cash inflow of $651 million in fiscal 2023 compared to $1,151 million in fiscal 2022. In fiscal 2023, we purchased a total of 50.0 million shares of NIKE's Class B Common Stock for $5.5 billion (an average price of $110.32 per share). In August 2022, we terminated the previous four-year, $15 billion share repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors in June 2018. Under this program, we repurchased 6.5 million shares for a total approximate cost of $710.0 million (an average price of $109.85 per share) during the first quarter of fiscal 2023 and 83.8 million shares for a total approximate cost of $9.4 billion (an average price of $111.82 per share) during the term of the program. Upon termination of the four-year, $15 billion program, we began purchasing shares under the new four-year, $18 billion share repurchase plan authorized by the Board of Directors in June 2022. As of May 31, 2023, we had repurchased 43.5 million shares at a cost of approximately $4.8 billion (an average price of $110.38 per share) under this new program. We continue to expect funding of share repurchases will come from operating cash flows. The timing and the amount of share repurchases will be dictated by our capital needs and stock market conditions. CAPITAL RESOURCES On July 21, 2022, we filed a shelf registration statement (the "Shelf") with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") which permits us to issue an unlimited amount of debt securities from time to time. The Shelf expires on July 21, 2025. On March 11, 2022, we entered into a five-year committed credit facility agreement with a syndicate of banks which provides for up to $2 billion of borrowings, with the option to increase borrowings up to $3 billion in total with lender approval. The facility matures on March 11, 2027, with options to extend the maturity date up to an additional two years. This facility replaces the prior $2 billion five-year credit facility agreement entered into on August 16, 2019, which would have matured on August 16, 2024. Refer to Note 5 — Short-Term Borrowings and Credit Lines for additional information. On March 10, 2023, we entered into a 364-day committed credit facility agreement with a syndicate of banks which provides for up to $1 billion of borrowings, with the option to increase borrowings up to $1.5 billion in total with lender approval. The facility matures on March 8, 2024, with an option to extend the maturity date by 364 days. This facility replaces the prior $1 billion 364-day credit facility agreement entered into on March 11, 2022, which matured on March 10, 2023. Refer to Note 5 — Short-Term Borrowings and Credit Lines for additional information. We currently have long-term debt ratings of AA- and A1 from Standard and Poor's Corporation and Moody's Investor Services, respectively. As it relates to our committed credit facilities entered into on March 11, 2022 and March 10, 2023, if our long-term debt ratings were to decline, the facility fees and interest rates would increase. Conversely, if our long-term debt ratings were to improve, the facility fees and interest rates would decrease. Changes in our long-term debt ratings would not trigger acceleration of maturity of any then-outstanding borrowings or any future borrowings under the committed credit facilities. Under these facilities, we have agreed to various covenants. These covenants include limits on the disposal of assets and the amount of debt secured by liens we may incur. In the event we were to have any borrowings outstanding under these facilities, failed to meet any covenant and were unable to obtain a waiver from a majority of the banks in the applicable syndicate, any borrowings would become immediately due and payable. As of May 31, 2023, we were in full compliance with each of these covenants, and we believe it is unlikely we will fail to meet any of these covenants in the foreseeable future. Liquidity is also provided by our $3 billion commercial paper program. As of and for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2023 and 2022, we did not have any borrowings outstanding under our $3 billion program. We may continue to issue commercial paper or other debt securities depending on general corporate needs. To date, we have not experienced difficulty accessing the capital or credit markets; however, future volatility may increase costs associated with issuing commercial paper or other debt instruments or affect our ability to access those markets. As of May 31, 2023, we had Cash and equivalents and Short-term investments totaling $10.7 billion, primarily consisting of commercial paper, corporate notes, deposits held at major banks, money market funds, U.S. Treasury obligations and other investment grade fixed-income securities. Our fixed-income investments are exposed to both credit and interest rate risk. All of our investments are investment grade to minimize our credit risk. While individual securities have varying durations, as of May 31, 2023, the weighted-average days to maturity of our cash equivalents and short-term investments portfolio was 98 days. 2023 FORM 10-K 45 We believe that existing Cash and equivalents, Short-term investments and cash generated by operations, together with access to external sources of funds as described above, will be sufficient to meet our domestic and foreign capital needs in the foreseeable future. Our material cash requirements as of May 31, 2023, were as follows: • Debt Obligations — Refer to Note 5 — Short-Term Borrowings and Credit Lines and Note 6 — Long-Term Debt in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. • Operating Leases — Refer to Note 17 — Leases in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. • Endorsement Contracts — As of May 31, 2023, we had endorsement contract obligations of $7.6 billion, with $1.3 billion payable within 12 months, representing approximate amounts of base compensation and minimum guaranteed royalty fees we are obligated to pay athlete, public figure, sport team and league endorsers of our products. Actual payments under some contracts may be higher than these amounts as these contracts provide for bonuses to be paid to the endorsers based upon athletic achievements and/or royalties on product sales in future periods. Actual payments under some contracts may also be lower as these contracts include provisions for reduced payments if athletic performance declines in future periods. In addition to the cash payments, we are obligated to furnish our endorsers with NIKE product for their use. It is not possible to determine how much we will spend on this product on an annual basis as the amount of product provided to the endorsers will depend on many factors and the contracts generally do not stipulate a minimum amount of cash to be spent on the product. • Product Purchase Obligations — As of May 31, 2023, we had product purchase obligations of $6.4 billion, all of which are payable within the next 12 months. Product purchase obligations represent agreements (including open purchase orders) to purchase products in the ordinary course of business that are enforceable and legally binding and specify all significant terms. We generally order product at least four to five months in advance of sale based primarily on advanced orders received from external wholesale customers and internal orders from our direct to consumer operations. In some cases, prices are subject to change throughout the production process. • Other Purchase Obligations — As of May 31, 2023, we had $3.3 billion of other purchase obligations, with $1.7 billion payable within the next 12 months. Other purchase obligations primarily include technology investments, construction, service and marketing commitments, including marketing commitments associated with endorsement contracts, made in the ordinary course of business. The amounts represent the minimum payments required by legally binding contracts and agreements that specify all significant terms, and may include open purchase orders for non-product purchases. In addition to the above, we have long-term obligations for uncertain tax positions and various post-retirement benefits for which we are not able to reasonably estimate when cash payments will occur. Refer to Note 7 — Income Taxes and Note 11 — Benefit Plans in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to uncertain tax positions and post-retirement benefits, respectively. As a part of the transition tax related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, as of May 31, 2023, we had $644 million in estimated future cash payments, with $161 million payable within the next 12 months. These amounts represent the transition tax on deemed repatriation of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries, which are reflected net of foreign tax credits we utilized. Refer to Note 16 — Commitments and Contingencies in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to our off-balance sheet arrangements, bank guarantees and letters of credit. OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS As of May 31, 2023, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a material effect on our current and future financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. In connection with various contracts and agreements, we routinely provide indemnification relating to the enforceability of intellectual property rights, coverage for legal issues that arise and other items where we are acting as the guarantor. Currently, we have several such agreements in place. Based on our historical experience and the estimated probability of future loss, we have determined that the fair value of such indemnification is not material to our financial position or results of operations. NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Refer to Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies within the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for recently adopted and issued accounting standards. 2023 FORM 10-K 46 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Our previous discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe the assumptions and judgments involved in the accounting estimates described below have the greatest potential impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements, so we consider these to be our critical accounting estimates. Management has reviewed and discussed these critical accounting estimates with the Audit & Finance Committee of the Board of Directors. Because of the uncertainty inherent in these matters, actual results could differ from the estimates we use in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements. Within the context of these critical accounting estimates, we are not currently aware of any reasonably likely events or circumstances that would result in materially different amounts being reported. SALES-RELATED RESERVES Provisions for anticipated sales returns consist of both contractual return rights and discretionary authorized returns. Provisions for post-invoice sales discounts consist of both contractual programs and discretionary discounts that are expected to be granted at a later date. Estimates of discretionary authorized returns, discounts and claims are based on (1) historical rates, (2) specific identification of outstanding returns not yet received from customers and outstanding discounts and claims and (3) estimated returns, discounts and claims expected but not yet finalized with customers. Actual returns, discounts and claims in any future period are inherently uncertain and may differ from estimates recorded. If actual or expected future returns, discounts or claims were significantly different than reserves established, a reduction or increase to net revenues would be recorded in the period in which such determination was made. Refer to Note 14 — Revenues in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. INVENTORY RESERVES We make ongoing estimates relating to the net realizable value of inventories based upon our assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If we estimate the net realizable value of our inventory is less than the cost of the inventory recorded on our books, we record a reserve equal to the difference between the cost of the inventory and the estimated net realizable value. This reserve is recorded as a charge to Cost of sales. If changes in market conditions result in reductions to the estimated net realizable value of our inventory below our previous estimate, we would increase our reserve in the period in which we made such a determination. HEDGE ACCOUNTING FOR DERIVATIVES We use derivative contracts to hedge certain anticipated foreign currency and interest rate transactions as well as certain non-functional currency monetary assets and liabilities. When the specific criteria to qualify for hedge accounting has been met, changes in the fair value of contracts hedging probable forecasted future cash flows are recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), rather than Net income, until the underlying hedged transaction affects Net income. In most cases, this results in gains and losses on hedge derivatives being released from Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into Net income sometime after the maturity of the derivative. One of the criteria for this accounting treatment is that the notional value of these derivative contracts should not be in excess of the designated amount of anticipated transactions. By their very nature, our estimates of anticipated transactions may fluctuate over time and may ultimately vary from actual transactions. When the designated amount of anticipated or actual transactions decline below hedged levels, or if it is no longer probable a forecasted transaction will occur by the end of the originally specified time period or within an additional two-month period of time thereafter, we reclassify the cumulative change in fair value of the over-hedged portion of the related hedge contract from Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to Other (income) expense, net during the quarter in which the decrease occurs. In rare circumstances, the additional period of time may exceed two months due to extenuating circumstances related to the nature of the forecasted transaction that are outside our control or influence. Refer to Note 12 — Risk Management and Derivatives in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 2023 FORM 10-K 47 INCOME TAXES We are subject to taxation in the United States, as well as various state and foreign jurisdictions. The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. On an interim basis, we estimate our effective tax rate for the full fiscal year. This estimated annual effective tax rate is then applied to the year-to-date Income before income taxes excluding infrequently occurring or unusual items, to determine the year-to-date Income tax expense. The income tax effects of infrequent or unusual items are recognized in the interim period in which they occur. As the fiscal year progresses, we continually refine our estimate based upon actual events and earnings by jurisdiction during the year. This continual estimation process periodically results in a change to our expected effective tax rate for the fiscal year. When this occurs, we adjust the income tax provision during the quarter in which the change in estimate occurs. On a quarterly basis, we evaluate the probability a tax position will be effectively sustained and the appropriateness of the amount recognized for uncertain tax positions based on factors including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, settled audit issues and new audit activity. Changes in our assessment may result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision in the period our assessment changes. We recognize interest and penalties related to income tax matters in Income tax expense. Refer to Note 7 — Income Taxes in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. OTHER CONTINGENCIES In the ordinary course of business, we are subject to various legal proceedings, claims and government investigations related to our business, products and actions of our employees and representatives, including contractual and employment relationships, product liability, antitrust, customs, tax, intellectual property and other matters. We record contingent liabilities resulting from claims against us when a loss is assessed to be probable and the amount of the loss is reasonably estimable. Assessing probability of loss and estimating probable losses requires analysis of multiple factors, including in some cases judgments about the potential actions of third-party claimants and courts. Recorded contingent liabilities are based on the best information available and actual losses in any future period are inherently uncertain. If future adjustments to estimated probable future losses or actual losses exceed our recorded liability for such claims, we would record additional charges during the period in which the actual loss or change in estimate occurred. In addition to contingent liabilities recorded for probable losses, we disclose contingent liabilities when there is a reasonable possibility the ultimate loss will materially exceed the recorded liability. Refer to Note 16 — Commitments and Contingencies in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 2023 FORM 10-K 48