********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

In the normal course of our business activities, we are exposed to a variety of risks. The following discussion sets forth the risk factors that we have identified as being most significant to Northern Trust. Although we discuss these risk factors primarily in the context of their potential effects on our business, financial condition or results of operations, you should understand that these effects can have further negative implications such as: reducing the price of our common stock and other securities; reducing our capital, which can have regulatory and other consequences; affecting the confidence that clients, counterparties and/or applicable regulators have in us, with a resulting negative effect on our ability to conduct and grow our businesses; and reducing the attractiveness of our securities to rating agencies and potential purchasers, which may affect adversely our ability to raise capital and secure other funding or the cost at which we are able to do so. Additional risks beyond those discussed below, elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in other of our reports filed with, or furnished to, the SEC also could affect us adversely. Further, we cannot assure you that the risk factors herein or elsewhere in our other reports address all potential risks that we may face and you should not interpret discussion of any risk to imply that such risk has not already materialized. These risk factors also serve to describe factors which may cause our results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements included herein or in other documents or statements that make reference to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Forward-looking statements and other factors that may affect future results are discussed under “Forward-Looking Statements” included in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Summary Our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by various risk types and considerations, including market risks, operational risks, credit risks, liquidity risks, regulatory and legal risks, strategic risks, and other risks, including as a result of the following: Market Risks • We are dependent on fee-based business for a majority of our revenues, which may be affected adversely by market volatility, a downturn in economic conditions, underperformance and/or negative trends in investment preferences. • Changes in interest rates can affect our earnings negatively. • Changes in the monetary, trade and other policies of various regulatory authorities, central banks, governments and international agencies may reduce our earnings and affect our growth prospects negatively. • Macroeconomic conditions and uncertainty in the global economy, including the financial stability of various regions or countries across the globe, including the risk of defaults on sovereign debt and related stresses on financial markets, could have a significant adverse effect on our earnings. • Declines in the value of securities held in our investment portfolio can affect us negatively. • Volatility levels and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may affect our earnings. • Changes in a number of particular market conditions can affect our earnings negatively. Operational Risks • Many types of operational risks can affect our earnings negatively. • Failures of, or disruptions to, our technological systems or breaches of our security measures, including, but not limited to, those resulting from cyber-attacks, may result in losses. • Errors, breakdowns in controls or other mistakes in the provision of services to clients or in carrying out transactions for our own account can subject us to liability, result in losses or have a negative effect on our earnings in other ways. • Our dependence on technology, and the need to update frequently our technology infrastructure, exposes us to risks that also can result in losses. • A failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. • Failure of any of our third-party vendors (or their vendors) to perform can result in losses. • We are subject to certain risks inherent in operating globally which may affect our business adversely. • Failure to control our costs and expenses adequately could affect our earnings negatively. • Pandemics, natural disasters, global climate change, acts of terrorism, geopolitical tensions, and global conflicts may have a negative impact on our business and operations. Credit Risks • Failure to evaluate accurately the prospects for repayment when we extend credit or maintain an adequate allowance for credit losses can result in losses or the need to make additional provisions for credit losses, both of which reduce our earnings. • Market volatility and/or weak economic conditions can result in losses or the need for additional provisions for credit losses, both of which reduce our earnings. • The failure or perceived weakness of any of our significant counterparties could expose us to loss. • The transition away from LIBOR or changes in the method pursuant to which other interest rate benchmarks are determined could adversely impact our business and results of operations. Liquidity Risks • If we do not manage our liquidity effectively, our business could suffer. • If the Bank is unable to supply the Corporation with funds over time, the Corporation could be unable to meet its various obligations. • We may need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us or may only be available on unfavorable terms. • Any downgrades in our credit ratings, or an actual or perceived reduction in our financial strength, could affect our borrowing costs, capital costs and liquidity adversely. Regulatory and Legal Risks • Failure to comply with regulations and/or supervisory expectations can result in penalties and regulatory constraints that restrict our ability to grow or even conduct our business, or that reduce earnings. • Changes by the U.S. and other governments to laws, regulations and policies applicable to the financial services industry may heighten the challenges we face and make regulatory compliance more difficult and costly. • We may be impacted adversely by claims or litigation, including claims or litigation relating to our fiduciary responsibilities. • We may be impacted adversely by supervisory and/or regulatory enforcement matters. • We may fail to set aside adequate reserves for, or otherwise underestimate our liability relating to, pending and threatened claims, with a negative effect on our earnings. • The ultimate impact on us of the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the European Union remains uncertain. • If we fail to comply with legal standards, we could incur liability to our clients or lose clients, which could affect our earnings negatively. Strategic Risks • If we are not able to attract, retain and motivate personnel, our business could be negatively affected. • Our operations, businesses and clients could be materially adversely affected by the effects of climate change or concerns related thereto. • If we do not develop and execute strategic plans successfully, our growth may be impacted negatively. • We are subject to intense competition in all aspects of our businesses, which could have a negative effect on our ability to maintain satisfactory prices and grow our earnings. • Damage to our reputation could have a direct and negative effect on our ability to compete, grow and generate revenue. • We need to invest in innovation constantly, and the inability or failure to do so may affect our businesses and earnings negatively. • Failure to understand or appreciate fully the risks associated with development or delivery of new product and service offerings may affect our businesses and earnings negatively. • Our success with large, complex clients requires an understanding of the market and legal, regulatory and accounting standards in various jurisdictions. • We may take actions to maintain client satisfaction that result in losses or reduced earnings. Other Risks • The systems and models we employ to analyze, monitor and mitigate risks, as well as for other business purposes, are inherently limited, may not be effective in all cases and, in any case, cannot eliminate all risks that we face. • Changes in tax laws and interpretations and tax challenges may affect our earnings negatively. • Changes in accounting standards may be difficult to predict and could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. • Our ability to return capital to stockholders is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and may be limited by U.S. banking laws and regulations, applicable provisions of Delaware law, or our failure to pay full and timely dividends on our preferred stock and the terms of our outstanding debt. Market Risks We are dependent on fee-based business for a majority of our revenues, which may be affected adversely by market volatility, a downturn in economic conditions, underperformance and/or negative trends in investment preferences. Our principal operational focus is on fee-based business, which is distinct from commercial banking institutions that earn most of their revenues from loans and other traditional interest-generating products and services. Fees for many of our products and services are based on the market value of assets under management, custody or administration; the volume of transactions processed; securities lending volume and spreads; fees for other services rendered; and in certain businesses, fees calculated as a percentage of our clients’ earnings, all of which may be impacted negatively by market volatility, a downturn in economic conditions, underperformance and/or negative trends in investment preferences. For example, downturns in equity markets and decreases in the value of debt-related investments resulting from market disruption, illiquidity or other factors historically have reduced the valuations of the assets we manage or service for others, which generally impacted our earnings negatively. Further, although we do not hold, invest in, or custody cryptocurrency assets, the markets in which they trade are highly volatile and volatility in these markets may impact the markets for other assets that we hold, invest in, or custody, which could also impact our fees or financial condition. Market volatility and/or weak economic conditions also may affect wealth creation, investment preferences, trading activities, and savings patterns, which impact demand for certain products and services that we provide. Our earnings also may be affected by poor investment returns or changes in investment preferences driven by factors beyond market volatility or weak economic conditions. Poor absolute or relative investment performance in funds or client accounts that we manage or in investment products that we design or provide may result in declines in the market values of portfolios that we manage and/or administer and may affect our ability to retain existing assets and to attract new clients or additional assets from existing clients. For example, in 2022, outflows we experienced in certain of our products as a result of the impact of weaker markets and relative investment performance adversely impacted our overall fees derived from assets that we manage. Broader changes in investment preferences that lead to less investment in mutual funds or other collective funds, such as the shift in investor preference to lower fee products, could also impact our earnings negatively. Changes in interest rates can affect our earnings negatively. The direction and level of interest rates are important factors in our earnings. Interest rate changes could affect the interest earned on assets differently than interest paid on liabilities. In response to rising inflation, the Federal Reserve Board has increased interest rates from historically low levels. While a rising interest rate environment generally has a positive effect on our net interest margin, in some circumstances, a rise in interest rates also may affect us negatively. For example, the recent rapid increases in interest rates has adversely impacted the value of certain of our investment securities, with resultant impacts on our capital, liquidity, and earnings. Additionally, recent higher interest rates have caused, and may in the future cause: market volatility and downturns in equity markets, resulting in a decrease in the valuations of the assets we manage or service for others, which generally impact our earnings negatively; our clients to transfer funds into investments with higher rates of return, resulting in decreased deposit levels and higher fund or account redemptions; our borrowers to experience difficulties in making higher interest payments, resulting in increased credit costs, provisions for loan and lease losses and charge-offs; reduced bond and fixed income fund liquidity, resulting in lower performance, yields and fees; or higher funding costs. Conversely, low-interest-rate environments generally result in a compressed net interest margin and also have a negative impact on our fees earned on certain of our products. For example, in the past we waived certain fees associated with money market funds due to the low level of short-term interest rates. Low net interest margins and fee waivers each negatively impact our earnings. Although we have policies and procedures in place to assess and mitigate potential impacts of interest rate risks, if our assumptions about any number of variables are incorrect, these policies and procedures to mitigate risk may be ineffective, which could impact earnings negatively. Please see “Market Risk” in the “Risk Management” section included in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” for a more detailed discussion of interest rate and market risks we face. Changes in the monetary, trade and other policies of various regulatory authorities, central banks, governments and international agencies may reduce our earnings and affect our growth prospects negatively. The monetary, trade and other policies of U.S. and international governments, agencies and regulatory bodies have a significant impact on economic conditions and overall financial market performance. For example, the Federal Reserve Board regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States, and its policies determine in large part the level of interest rates and our cost of funds for lending and investing, and play a role in contributing to or moderating levels of inflation, all of which meaningfully impact our earnings. Recent actions of the Federal Reserve Board and other regulatory authorities have reduced the value of financial instruments we hold and may continue to do so in the future. Further, their policies can affect our borrowers by increasing interest rates or making sources of funding less available, which may increase the risk that borrowers fail to repay their loans from us. Changes in monetary, trade and other governmental policies are beyond our control and can be difficult to predict, and we cannot determine the ultimate effect that any such changes would have upon our business, financial condition or results of operations. Macroeconomic conditions and uncertainty in the global economy, including the financial stability of various regions or countries across the globe, including the risk of defaults on sovereign debt and related stresses on financial markets, could have a significant adverse effect on our earnings. Risks and concerns about the financial stability of various regions or countries across the globe could have a detrimental impact on economic and market conditions in these or other markets across the world. Foreign market and economic disruptions have affected, and may in the future affect, consumer confidence levels and spending, international trade policy, personal bankruptcy rates, levels of incurrence of and default on consumer debt, and home prices. Additionally, financial markets may be adversely affected by the current or anticipated impact of military conflict (including the continuing military conflict involving Ukraine and the Russian Federation), terrorism, political or civil unrest, sovereign debt downgrades or debt crises (including any uncertainty over the U.S. government debt ceiling) , public health epidemics or pandemics, the exit or potential exit of one or more countries from the EU, or other geopolitical events. The cumulative effect of uncertain business conditions or e conomic challenges faced in various foreign markets, including fiscal or monetary concerns, rising inflation and interest rates, economic downturns and the possibility of a recession in some jurisdictions, other economic factors (including changes in foreign currency exchange rates and changes to tax laws or the application or enforcement practices of such laws), or volatility or lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect certain portions of our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Declines in the value of securities held in our investment portfolio can affect us negatively. Our investment securities portfolio represents a greater proportion, and our loan and lease portfolios represent a smaller proportion, of our total consolidated assets in comparison to many other financial institutions. The value of securities available for sale and held to maturity within our investment portfolio, which is generally determined based upon market values available from third-party sources, have fluctuated, and may continue in the future to fluctuate, as a result of market volatility and economic or financial market conditions. Declines in the value of securities held in our investment portfolio negatively impact our levels of capital, liquidity, and, to the extent we realize losses, earnings. Although we have policies and procedures in place to assess and mitigate potential impacts of market risks, including hedging-related strategies, those policies and procedures are inherently limited because they cannot anticipate the existence or future development of currently unanticipated or unknown risks. Accordingly, market risks have, from time to time, negatively affected the value of securities held in our investment portfolio and in the future we could suffer additional adverse effects as a result of our failure to anticipate and manage these risks properly. Volatility levels and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may affect our earnings. We provide foreign exchange services to our clients, primarily in connection with our global custody business. Foreign currency volatility influences our foreign exchange trading income as does the level of client activity. Foreign currency volatility and changes in client activity may result in reduced foreign exchange trading income. Fluctuations in exchange rates may raise the potential for losses resulting from foreign currency trading positions where aggregate obligations to purchase and sell a currency other than the U.S. dollar do not offset each other or offset each other in different time periods. We also are exposed to non-trading foreign currency risk as a result of our holdings of non-U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities, investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries, and future non-U.S. dollar denominated revenue and expense. We have policies and procedures in place to assess and mitigate potential impacts of foreign exchange risks, including hedging-related strategies. Any failure or circumvention of our procedures to mitigate risk may impact earnings negatively. Please see “Market Risk” in the “Risk Management” section included in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” for a more detailed discussion of market risks we face. Changes in a number of particular market conditions can affect our earnings negatively. In past periods, reductions in the volatility of currency-trading markets, the level of cross-border investing activity, and the demand for borrowing securities or willingness to lend such securities have affected our earnings from activities such as foreign exchange trading and securities lending negatively. If these conditions occur in the future, our earnings from these activities may be affected negatively. In certain of our businesses, such as securities lending, our fee is calculated as a percentage of our clients’ earnings, such that market and other factors that reduce our clients’ earnings from investments or trading activities also reduce our revenues. Operational Risks Many types of operational risks can affect our earnings negatively. We regularly assess and monitor operational risk in our businesses. Despite our efforts to assess and monitor operational risk, our risk management program may not be effective in all cases. Factors that can impact operations and expose us to risks varying in size, scale and scope, some or all of which may be exacerbated by the increase in hybrid and remote working arrangements in recent years, include: • failures of technological systems or breaches of security measures, including, but not limited to, those resulting from computer viruses or cyber-attacks; • human errors or omissions, including failures to comply with applicable laws or corporate policies and procedures; • theft, fraud or misappropriation of assets, whether arising from the intentional actions of internal personnel or external third parties; • defects or interruptions in computer or communications systems; • breakdowns in processes; over-reliance on manual processes, which are less scalable, and inherently more prone to error, than automated processes; breakdowns in internal controls or failures of the systems and facilities that support our operations; • unsuccessful or difficult implementation of computer systems upgrades; • defects in product design or delivery; • difficulty in accurately pricing assets, which can be aggravated by market volatility and illiquidity and lack of reliable pricing from third-party vendors; • negative developments in relationships with key counterparties, third-party vendors, employees or associates in our day-to-day operations; and • external events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as pandemics, geopolitical events, political or social unrest, natural disasters or acts of terrorism. While we have in place many controls and business continuity plans designed to address many of these factors, these plans may not operate successfully to mitigate these risks effectively. We also may fail to identify or fully understand the implications and risks associated with changes in the financial markets or our businesses—particularly as our geographic footprint, product pipeline and client needs and expectations evolve—and consequently fail to enhance our controls and business continuity plans to address those changes in an adequate or timely fashion. If our controls and business continuity plans do not address the factors noted above and operate to mitigate the associated risks successfully, such factors may have a negative impact on our business (including operational resilience), financial condition or results of operations. In addition, an important aspect of managing our operational risk is creating a risk culture in which all employees fully understand the inherent risk in our business and the importance of managing risk as it relates to their job functions. We continue to enhance our risk management program to support our risk culture, ensuring that it is sustainable and appropriate for our role as a major financial institution. Nonetheless, if we fail to provide the appropriate environment that sensitizes all of our employees to managing risk, our business could be impacted adversely. Please see “Other Risks” in this “Risk Factors” section for further description of risks associated with the systems and models we employ to analyze, monitor and mitigate risks. Failures of, or disruptions to, our technological systems or breaches of our security measures, including, but not limited to, those resulting from cyber-attacks, may result in losses. Our business is dependent on our and third parties’ information technology systems. Despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our computer systems, networks, and data could be subject to cyber-attacks and unauthorized access, use, alteration, or destruction, such as from physical and electronic break-ins or unauthorized tampering, malware and computer virus attacks, or system failures and disruptions. Any failure, interruption or breach in the security of our systems could severely disrupt our operations and could subject us to liability claims, harm our reputation, interrupt our operations, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our systems involve the processing, storage and transmission of clients’ and our proprietary and confidential information, and security breaches, including cyber-attacks, could expose us to a risk of theft, loss or other misappropriation of this information. Our security measures may be breached due to the actions of outside parties, employee error, failure of our controls with respect to access to our systems, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, an unauthorized party may obtain access to our or our clients’ proprietary and confidential information, resulting in the theft, loss, destruction, gathering, monitoring, dissemination, or other misappropriation of this information. Additionally, our computer, communications, data processing, networks, backup, business continuity or other operating, information or technology systems, including those that we outsource to other providers, may fail to operate properly or become disabled, overloaded or damaged as a result of a number of factors, including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which could have a negative effect on our ability to conduct our business activities. Additionally, we are subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations governing cybersecurity, data privacy and data protection, which may differ and potentially conflict, in various jurisdictions. Regulators globally are introducing the potential for greater monetary fines on institutions that suffer from breaches leading to the misappropriation of such information. Most states, the EU and other non-U.S. jurisdictions also have adopted their own statutes and/or regulations concerning data privacy and security and notification of data breaches. These and other changes in laws or regulations associated with the enhanced protection of personal and other types of information could greatly increase compliance costs and the size of potential fines related to the protection of such information. Information security and data privacy risks for large financial institutions like us are significant in part because of the evolving proliferation of new technologies, the use of internet-based solutions, mobile devices, and cloud technologies to conduct financial transactions and the increased sophistication and rapidly evolving techniques of hackers, terrorists, organized crime and other external parties, including foreign state actors. If we fail to continue to upgrade our technology infrastructure to ensure effective information security and data privacy relative to the type, size and complexity of our operations, we could become more vulnerable to cyber-attack and, consequently, subject to significant regulatory penalties and reputational damage. Also, like many large enterprises, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic in recent years, a significant portion of our workforce has shifted to a hybrid work environment that includes a combination of in-office and remote work. The increase in remote work and remote access to our systems, initially driven by the COVID-19 pandemic, also introduces potential vulnerabilities to cyber threats. The third parties with which we do business also are susceptible to the foregoing risks (including regarding the third parties with which they are similarly interconnected or on which they otherwise rely), and our or their business operations and activities may therefore be affected adversely, perhaps materially, by failures, terminations, errors or malfeasance by, or attacks or constraints on, one or more financial, technology, infrastructure or government institutions or intermediaries with whom we or they are interconnected or conduct business. While we conduct security assessments on third-party vendors, we cannot be certain that their information security protocols are sufficient to withstand a cyber-attack or other security breach. In addition, our clients often use personal devices, such as computers, smart phones and tablets, which are particularly vulnerable to loss and theft, as well as third parties with whom they share information used for authentication, to access our systems and manage their accounts, which may heighten the risk of system failures, interruptions or security breaches. Moreover, the increased use of mobile and cloud technologies could heighten these and other operational risks. Reliance on mobile or cloud technology or any failure by mobile technology and cloud service providers to adequately safeguard their systems and prevent cyber-attacks could disrupt our operations or the operations of our or their service providers and result in misappropriation, corruption or loss of personal, confidential or proprietary information or the inability to conduct ordinary business operations. In addition, there is a risk that encryption and other protective measures may be circumvented, particularly to the extent that new computing technologies increase the speed and computing power available. In recent years, several financial services firms suffered successful cyber-attacks launched both domestically and from abroad, resulting in the disruption of services to clients, loss or misappropriation of sensitive or private information, and reputational harm. We and our clients have been, and expect to continue to be, subject to a wide variety of cyber-attacks and threats, including computer viruses, ransomware and other malicious code, distributed denial of service attacks, and phishing and vishing attacks, and it is possible that we could suffer material losses resulting from a breach. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques, to implement adequate preventative measures, or to address them until they are discovered. In addition, successful cyber-attacks may persist for an extended period of time before being detected. Because any investigation of an information security incident would be inherently unpredictable, the extent of a particular information security incident and the path of investigating the incident may not be immediately clear. It may take a significant amount of time before such an investigation can be completed and full and reliable information about the incident is known. While such an investigation is ongoing, we may not necessarily know the extent of the harm or how best to remediate it, certain errors or actions could be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and remediated, and communication to the public, regulators, clients and other stakeholders may be inaccurate, any or all of which could further increase the costs and consequences of an information security incident. We could be the subject of legal claims or proceedings related to security incidents, including regulatory investigations and actions. Further, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed, our reputation could suffer and we could lose clients in conjunction with security incidents, each of which could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A breach of our security also may affect adversely our ability to effect transactions, service our clients, manage our exposure to risk or expand our business. An event that results in the loss of information also may require us to reconstruct lost data or reimburse clients for data and credit monitoring services, which could be costly and have a negative impact on our business and reputation. Although we maintain insurance coverage in the event of information theft, damage, or destruction from cyber breach incidents, there can be no assurance that liabilities or losses we may incur will be covered under such policies or that the amount of insurance will be adequate to cover such losses. Further, even if not directed at us, attacks on financial or other institutions important to the overall functioning of the financial system or on our counterparties could affect, directly or indirectly, aspects of our business. Errors, breakdowns in controls or other mistakes in the provision of services to clients or in carrying out transactions for our own account can subject us to liability, result in losses or have a negative effect on our earnings in other ways. In our asset servicing, investment management, fiduciary administration and other business activities, we effect or process transactions for clients and for ourselves that involve very large amounts of money. Failure to manage or mitigate operational risks properly can have adverse consequences, and increased volatility in the financial markets may increase the magnitude of resulting losses. Further, remote working and other modified business practices initiated in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, combined with the increasing sophistication and frequency of potential cyber incidents, have heightened our operational and execution risk. Given the high volume of transactions we process, errors that affect earnings may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and corrected. Our dependence on technology, and the need to update frequently our technology infrastructure, exposes us to risks that also can result in losses. Our businesses depend on information technology infrastructure, both internal and external, to record and process, among other things, a large volume of increasingly complex transactions and other data, in many currencies, on a daily basis, across numerous and diverse markets and jurisdictions. Due to our dependence on technology and the important role it plays in our business operations, combined with the increasing sophistication and frequency of potential cyber incidents, we must constantly improve and update our information technology infrastructure. Upgrading, replacing, and modernizing these systems can require significant resources and often involves implementation, integration and security risks that could cause financial, reputational, and operational harm. In some cases, the COVID-19 pandemic has accelerated the transition from traditional to digital financial services and heightened customer expectations in this area, and this transition may require us to invest greater resources in technological advancements. Failure to ensure adequate review and consideration of critical business and regulatory issues prior to and during the introduction and deployment of key technological systems or failure to align operational capabilities adequately with evolving client commitments and expectations may have a negative impact on our results of operations. The failure to respond properly to, and invest in, changes and advancements in technology and/or to compete for and retain employees with the necessary technical skills and expertise could limit our ability to attract and retain clients, prevent us from offering products and services comparable to those offered by our competitors, inhibit our ability to meet regulatory requirements or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our operations. A failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system will be met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or are otherwise required to restate our financial statements, we could be required to implement expensive and time-consuming remedial measures and could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. In addition, there are risks that individuals, either employees or contractors, consciously circumvent established control mechanisms by, for example, exceeding trading or investment management limitations, or committing fraud. Failure of any of our third-party vendors (or their vendors) to perform can result in losses. Third-party vendors provide key components of our business operations such as data processing, recording and monitoring transactions, online banking interfaces and services, and network access. Our use of third-party vendors exposes us to the risk that such vendors (or their vendors) may not comply with their servicing and other contractual obligations, including with respect to indemnification and information security, and to the risk that we may not satisfy applicable regulatory responsibilities regarding the management and oversight of third parties and outsourcing providers. While we have established risk management processes and continuity plans, any disruptions in service from a key vendor for any reason or poor performance of services could have a negative effect on our ability to deliver products and services to our clients and conduct our business. Replacing these third-party vendors or performing the tasks they perform for ourselves could create significant delay and expense. We are subject to certain risks inherent in operating globally which may affect our business adversely. In conducting our U.S. and non-U.S. business, we are subject to risks of loss from various unfavorable political, economic, legal, public health, or other developments, including social or political instability, changes in governmental policies or policies of central banks, expropriation, nationalization, confiscation of assets, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, unfavorable tax rates and tax court rulings and changes in laws and regulations. Less mature and often less regulated business and investment environments heighten these risks in various emerging markets. Our non-U.S. operations accounted for 34% of our revenue in 2022. Our non-U.S. businesses are subject to extensive regulation by various non-U.S. regulators, including governments, securities exchanges, central banks and other regulatory bodies in the jurisdictions in which those businesses operate. In many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the financial services industry are uncertain and evolving and may be applied with extra scrutiny to foreign companies. Moreover, the regulatory and supervisory standards and expectations in one jurisdiction may not conform with standards or expectations in other jurisdictions. Even within a particular jurisdiction, the standards and expectations of multiple supervisory agencies exercising authority over our affairs may not be harmonized fully. Accordingly, it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market or manage our relationships with multiple regulators in various jurisdictions. Our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market and manage our relationships with regulators could have an adverse effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. The failure to mitigate properly such risks or the failure of our operating infrastructure to support such international activities could result in operational failures and regulatory fines or sanctions, which could affect our business and results of operations adversely. We actively strive to optimize our geographic footprint. This optimization may occur by establishing operations in lower-cost locations or by outsourcing to third-party vendors in various jurisdictions. These efforts expose us to the risk that we may not maintain service quality, control or effective management within these operations. In addition, we are exposed to the relevant macroeconomic, political, public health, and similar risks generally involved in doing business in those jurisdictions. The increased elements of risk that arise from conducting certain operating processes in some jurisdictions could lead to an increase in reputational risk. During periods of transition, greater operational risk and client concern exist with respect to maintaining a high level of service delivery. In addition, we are subject in our global operations to rules and regulations relating to corrupt and illegal payments, money laundering, and laws relating to doing business with certain individuals, groups and countries, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the USA PATRIOT Act, the UK Bribery Act, and economic sanctions and embargo programs administered by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control and similar agencies worldwide. While we have invested and continue to invest significant resources in training and in compliance monitoring, the geographic diversity of our operations, employees, clients and customers, as well as the vendors and other third parties with whom we deal, presents the risk that we may be found in violation of such rules, regulations, laws or programs and any such violation could subject us to significant penalties or affect our reputation adversely. Failure to control our costs and expenses adequately could affect our earnings negatively. Our success in controlling the costs and expenses of our business operations also impacts operating results. Through various parts of our business strategy, we aim to produce efficiencies in operations that help reduce and control costs and expenses, including the costs of losses associated with operating risks attributable to servicing and managing financial assets. Recently, increased expenses have affected, and a failure to control our costs and expenses in the future as a result of an overall inflationary environment or otherwise could affect, our earnings negatively. Pandemics, natural disasters, global climate change, acts of terrorism, geopolitical tensions, and global conflicts may have a negative impact on our business and operations. Pandemics, natural disasters, global climate change, acts of terrorism, geopolitical tensions, global conflicts (including the continuing military conflict involving Ukraine and the Russian Federation) or other similar events have had in the past, or may in the future have, a negative impact on our business and operations. While we have in place business continuity plans, such events may still damage our facilities, disrupt or delay the normal operations of our business (including communications and technology), result in harm to or cause travel limitations on our employees, impose significant compliance costs with new financial and economic sanctions regimes, and have a similar impact on our clients, suppliers, third-party vendors and counterparties. For example, in some jurisdictions such as the Russian Federation, local market restrictions, laws, sanctions programs or government intervention inhibit our clients’ and our ability to access or transfer cash or securities held for clients through subcustodians and clearing agencies. When such client deposit liabilities are on our consolidated balance sheet, we maintain a corresponding amount of cash on deposit with the subcustodian or clearing agency, which increases our credit exposure to that entity and can accumulate over time based upon distributions on, or other activities related to, our clients’ assets. If the subcustodian or clearing agency were to become insolvent in circumstances not involving expropriation of assets or other sovereign risk events and/or factors or events beyond our reasonable control that excuse performance under force majeure or other contractual provisions, the risk of loss on such cash on deposit may potentially be incurred by us. As of December 31, 2022, we held cash that accumulates in relation to Russian securities with our subcustodian and/or clearing agencies for the benefit of certain clients in our Asset Servicing business which are subject to restrictions which inhibit our ability to access or transfer such deposits, and which amount is expected to increase significantly over time as long as the sanctions and other relevant restrictions remain in effect. The foregoing or similar events also could impact us negatively to the extent that they result in reduced capital markets activity, lower asset price levels, or disruptions in general economic activity in the United States or abroad, or in financial market settlement functions. In addition, these or similar events may impact economic growth negatively, which could have an adverse effect on our business and operations, and may have other adverse effects on us in ways that we are unable to predict. Please see “Strategic Risks” in this “Risk Factors” section for further description of risks associated with climate change. Credit Risks Failure to evaluate accurately the prospects for repayment when we extend credit or maintain an adequate allowance for credit losses can result in losses or the need to make additional provisions for credit losses, both of which reduce our earnings. We evaluate extensions of credit before we make them and provide for credit risks based on our assessment of the credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio, including undrawn credit commitments. This process requires us to make difficult and complex judgments. Challenges associated with our credit risk assessments include identifying the proper factors to be used in assessments and accurately estimating the impacts of those factors. Allowances that prove to be inadequate may require us to realize increased provisions for credit losses or write down the value of certain assets on our balance sheet, which result in losses and/or increased provisions for credit losses and in turn would affect earnings negatively. Market volatility and/or weak economic conditions can result in losses or the need for additional provisions for credit losses, both of which reduce our earnings. Credit risk levels and our earnings can be affected by market volatility and/or weakness in the economy in general and in the particular locales in which we extend credit, a deterioration in credit quality, or a reduced demand for credit. Adverse changes in the financial performance or condition of our borrowers resulting from market volatility and/or weakened economic conditions could impact the borrowers’ abilities to repay outstanding loans, which could in turn impact our financial condition and results of operations negatively. The failure or perceived weakness of any of our significant counterparties could expose us to loss. The financial markets are characterized by extensive interconnections among financial institutions, including banks, broker/dealers, collective investment funds and insurance companies. As a result of these interconnections, we and many of our clients have counterparty exposure to other financial institutions. This counterparty exposure presents risks to us and to our clients because the failure or perceived weakness of any of our counterparties has the potential to expose us to risk of loss. Instability in the financial markets has resulted historically in some financial institutions becoming less creditworthy. During such periods of instability, we are exposed to increased counterparty risks, both as principal and in our capacity as agent for our clients. Changes in market perception of the financial strength of particular financial institutions can occur rapidly, are often based upon a variety of factors and can be difficult to predict. In addition, the criteria for and manner of governmental support of financial institutions and other economically important sectors remain uncertain. Further, the consolidation of financial services firms and the failures of other financial institutions has in the past increased, and may in the future increase, the concentration of our counterparty risk. These risks are heightened by the fact that our operating model relies on the use of unaffiliated sub-custodians to a greater degree than certain of our competitors that have banking operations in more jurisdictions than we do. We are not able to mitigate all of our and our clients’ counterparty credit risk. If a significant individual counterparty defaults on an obligation to us, we could incur financial losses that have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The transition away from LIBOR or changes in the method pursuant to which other interest rate benchmarks are determined could adversely impact our business and results of operations. Global regulators have taken steps to discontinue the publication and use of interbank offered rates (each, an IBOR), encourage the development and use of alternative reference rates, and examine the progress regulated entities such as Northern Trust are making to transition from IBORs to alternative reference rates. Publication of 1-week and 2-month USD LIBOR ceased as of December 31, 2021, and publication of the remaining USD LIBOR tenors are expected to continue until June 30, 2023. USD LIBOR historically has been a widely used interest rate benchmark and the reference rate for our floating-rate funding, certain of the products that we own, various lending and securities transactions in which we are involved, and certain of the derivatives that we use to manage our or our clients’ risk. Some regulators have prohibited the use of any LIBOR benchmarks in new contracts and have required that regulated entities transition existing contracts to another benchmark prior to June 30, 2023. Although the setting of such LIBOR benchmarks may continue to be available, such prohibitions and requirements or any other change in the availability or calculation of LIBOR or other interest rate benchmarks may affect adversely the cost or availability of floating-rate funding; the yield on loans or securities held by us; the amounts received and paid on derivative instruments we have entered into; the value of loans, securities, or derivative instruments held by us or our clients, which, in the case of assets held by our clients, could also negatively impact the amount of fees we earn in relation to such assets; the trading market for securities based on LIBOR or other benchmarks; the terms of new loans being made using different or modified reference rates; or our ability to use derivative instruments to manage risk effectively. Various regulators, industry bodies and other market participants in the United States and other countries have developed and continue to refine alternative rate benchmarks for various financial products. While there is no consensus on what rate or rates may become accepted by market participants as alternatives to LIBOR for new contracts after LIBOR publication ceases, a group of large banks and the Alternative Reference Rate Committee (ARRC) identified, and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in May 2018 started to publish, the Secured Overnight Finance Rate (SOFR) as its preferred alternative to LIBOR. The Adjustable Interest Rate (LIBOR) Act (the LIBOR Act) signed into law in March 2022, provides for the use of interest rates based on SOFR in certain contracts currently based on LIBOR and a safe harbor from liability for utilizing SOFR-based interest rates as a replacement for LIBOR. In December 2022, the Federal Reserve Board adopted a final rule implementing the LIBOR Act by identifying benchmark rates based on SOFR that will replace LIBOR in certain financial contracts after June 30, 2023. SOFR has different characteristics than LIBOR and may demonstrate less predictable behavior over time and across different monetary, market, and economic environments; therefore, it is unclear the extent to which SOFR will become a widely accepted replacement for LIBOR. We are working to facilitate an orderly transition from USD LIBOR to alternative interest rate benchmarks for us and our clients and, in accordance with guidance from U.S. regulators, including the Federal Reserve Board, we stopped offering USD LIBOR in new contracts and began offering SOFR as an alternative to USD LIBOR in 2021. While some existing USD LIBOR loans will mature or be prepaid, a portion of our loans will remain and potentially require us to name a replacement index before June 30, 2023, the date USD LIBOR ceases. We are currently in the process of evaluating all such transitions. The language in our USD LIBOR-based contracts and financial instruments has developed over time and may have various events that trigger when a successor rate to the designated rate would be selected. If a trigger is satisfied, contracts and financial instruments may give a party discretion to determine the substitute index or indices for the calculation of interest rates to be selected. Additionally, the transition to alternative rates may change our market risk profile, requiring changes to risk and pricing models. While some instruments may contemplate a scenario where LIBOR is no longer available by providing an alternative rate setting methodology, not all instruments may have such provisions and there is significant uncertainty regarding the effectiveness of any such alternative methodologies. There continues to be uncertainty regarding the effect that these developments, any discontinuance, modification or other reforms to LIBOR or any other interest rate benchmarks, or the establishment of alternative reference rates may have on LIBOR or other interest rate benchmarks. Further, the transition away from the use of LIBOR and the adoption of alternative interest rate benchmarks, and uncertainty related to any such transition or adoption, has caused, and may in the future cause, us to recognize additional costs. It may also cause us to experience operational disruptions or result in client disputes or litigation, which may negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. Liquidity Risks If we do not manage our liquidity effectively, our business could suffer. Liquidity is essential for the operation of our business. Market conditions, unforeseen outflows of funds or other events could have a negative effect on our level or cost of funding, affecting our ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual obligations, and fund new business transactions at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner. If our access to stable and low-cost sources of funding, such as customer deposits, is reduced, we may need to use alternative funding, which could be more expensive or of limited availability. Further evolution in the regulatory requirements relating to liquidity and risk management also may impact us negatively. Additional regulations may impose more stringent liquidity requirements for large financial institutions, including the Corporation and the Bank. Given the overlap and complex interactions of these regulations with other regulatory changes, the full impact of the adopted and proposed regulations remains uncertain until their full implementation. In addition, a significant portion of our business involves providing certain services to large, complex clients, which, by their nature, require substantial liquidity. Our failure to manage successfully the liquidity and balance sheet issues attendant to this portion of our business may have a negative impact on our ability to meet client needs and grow. For more information on regulations and other regulatory changes relating to liquidity, see “Supervision and Regulation—Liquidity Standards” in Item 1, “Business.” Any substantial, unexpected or prolonged changes in the level or cost of liquidity could affect our business adversely. If the Bank is unable to supply the Corporation with funds over time, the Corporation could be unable to meet its various obligations. The Corporation is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank and the Corporation’s other subsidiaries. The Corporation relies in large part on dividends paid to it by the Bank to meet its obligations and to pay dividends to stockholders of the Corporation. There are various legal limitations on the extent to which the Bank and the Corporation’s other subsidiaries can supply funds to the Corporation by dividend or otherwise. Dividend payments by the Bank to the Corporation in the future will require continued generation of earnings by the Bank and could require regulatory approval under certain circumstances. For more information on dividend restrictions, see “Supervision and Regulation—Payment of Dividends” in Item 1, “Business.” We may need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us or may only be available on unfavorable terms. We may need to raise additional capital to provide sufficient resources to meet our business needs and commitments, to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our clients, to maintain our credit ratings in response to regulatory changes, including capital rules, or for other purposes. However, our ability to access the capital markets, if needed, will depend on a number of factors, including the state of the financial markets. Rising interest rates, disruptions in financial markets, negative perceptions of our business or our financial strength, or other factors may impact our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. Any diminished ability to raise additional capital, if needed, could subject us to liability, restrict our ability to grow, require us to take actions that would affect our earnings negatively or otherwise affect our business and our ability to implement our business plan, capital plan and strategic goals adversely. Any downgrades in our credit ratings, or an actual or perceived reduction in our financial strength, could affect our borrowing costs, capital costs and liquidity adversely. Rating agencies publish credit ratings and outlooks on our creditworthiness and that of our obligations or securities, including long-term debt, short-term borrowings, preferred stock and other securities. Our credit ratings are subject to ongoing review by the rating agencies and thus may change from time to time based on a number of factors, including our own financial strength, performance, prospects and operations as well as factors not under our control, such as rating-agency-specific criteria or frameworks for our industry or certain security types, which are subject to revision from time to time, and conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. Downgrades in our credit ratings may affect our borrowing costs, our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity adversely. A failure to maintain an acceptable credit rating also may preclude us from being competitive in certain products. Additionally, our counterparties, as well as our clients, rely on our financial strength and stability and evaluate the risks of doing business with us. If we experience diminished financial strength or stability, actual or perceived, a decline in our stock price or a reduced credit rating, our counterparties may be less willing to enter into transactions, secured or unsecured, with us, our clients may reduce or place limits on the level of services we provide them or seek other service providers, or our prospective clients may select other service providers, all of which may have other adverse effects on our business. The risk that we may be perceived as less creditworthy relative to other market participants is higher in a market environment in which the consolidation, and in some instances failure, of financial institutions, including major global financial institutions, could result in a smaller number of larger counterparties and competitors. If our counterparties perceive us to be a less viable counterparty, our ability to enter into financial transactions on terms acceptable to us or our clients, on our or our clients’ behalf, will be compromised materially. If our clients reduce their deposits with us or select other service providers for all or a portion of the services we provide to them, our revenues will decrease accordingly. Regulatory and Legal Risks Failure to comply with regulations and/or supervisory expectations can result in penalties and regulatory constraints that restrict our ability to grow or even conduct our business, or that reduce earnings. Virtually every aspect of our business around the world is regulated, generally by domestic and foreign governmental agencies that have broad supervisory powers and the ability to impose sanctions. These regulations cover a variety of matters, including prohibited activities, required capital levels, resolution planning, human trafficking and modern slavery, and privacy and data protection. Some of these requirements are directed specifically at protecting depositors of the Bank, the federal deposit insurance fund and the banking system as a whole, not our stockholders or other security holders. Regulatory violations or the failure to meet formal or informal commitments made to regulators could generate penalties, require corrective actions that increase costs of conducting business, result in limitations on our ability to conduct business, restrict our ability to expand or impact our reputation adversely. Failure to obtain necessary approvals from regulatory agencies, whether formal or based upon supervisory expectations, on a timely basis could affect proposed business opportunities and results of operations adversely. Similarly, changes in laws or failure to comply with new requirements or with future changes in laws or regulations may impact our results of operations and financial condition negatively. Changes by the U.S. and other governments to laws, regulations and policies applicable to the financial services industry may heighten the challenges we face and make regulatory compliance more difficult and costly. Various regulatory bodies have demonstrated heightened enforcement scrutiny of financial institutions through many regulatory initiatives. These initiatives have increased compliance costs and regulatory risks and may lead to financial and reputational damage in the event of a compliance violation. While we have programs in place, including policies, training and various forms of monitoring, designed to ensure compliance with legislative and regulatory requirements, these programs and policies may not always protect us from conduct by individual employees. Governments and regulatory agencies may take further actions to change significantly the way financial institutions are regulated, either through new legislation, new regulations, new applications of existing regulations or a combination of all of these methods. We cannot currently predict the impact, if any, of these changes to our business. Additionally, governments and regulators may take actions that increase intervention in the normal operation of our businesses and the businesses of our competitors in the financial services industry, and these likely would involve additional legislative and regulatory requirements imposed on banks and other financial services companies. Any such actions could increase compliance costs and regulatory risks, lead to financial and reputational damage in the event of a violation, affect our ability to compete successfully, and also may impact the nature and level of competition in the industry in unpredictable ways. The full scope and impact of possible legislative or regulatory changes and the extent of regulatory activity is uncertain and difficult to predict. For example, we are unable to predict what, if any, changes to financial services laws and regulations applicable to the financial services industry may be enacted by the U.S. Congress and what the impact of any such changes will be upon our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Moreover, the current U.S. presidential administration has made, and is expected to make further, changes in the leadership and senior staffs of the federal banking agencies which are likely to impact the rulemaking, supervision, examination and enforcement priorities and policies of such agencies, the potential impacts of which, if any, we cannot predict with certainty at this time. We may be impacted adversely by claims or litigation, including claims or litigation relating to our fiduciary responsibilities. Our businesses involve the risk that clients or others may sue us, claiming that we have failed to perform under a contract or otherwise failed to carry out a duty perceived to be owed to them. Our trust, custody and investment management businesses are particularly subject to this risk. This risk is heightened when we act as a fiduciary for our clients and may be further heightened during periods when credit, equity or other financial markets are deteriorating in value or are particularly volatile, or when clients or investors are experiencing losses. In addition, regulators, tax authorities and courts have increasingly sought to hold financial institutions liable for the misconduct of their clients where such regulators and courts have determined that the financial institution should have detected that the client was engaged in wrongdoing, even though the financial institution had no direct knowledge of the wrongdoing. Claims made or actions brought against us, whether founded or unfounded, may result in injunctions, settlements, damages, fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations or require changes to our business. Even if we defend ourselves successfully, the cost of litigation is often substantial, and public reports regarding claims made against us may cause damage to our reputation among existing and prospective clients or negatively impact the confidence of counterparties, rating agencies and stockholders, consequently affecting our earnings negatively. We may be impacted adversely by supervisory and/or regulatory enforcement matters. In the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to various governmental enforcement inquiries, supervisory examinations, investigations and subpoenas. These may be directed generally to participants in the businesses in which we are involved or may be directed specifically at us. In conjunction with both supervisory and enforcement matters, we may face limits on our ability to conduct or expand our business, be required to implement corrective actions that increase the costs of conducting business, or become subject to civil or criminal penalties or other remedial sanctions, any of which could result in reputational damage or otherwise have an adverse impact on us. For example, the current U.S. presidential administration, or future administrations, could support an enhanced regulatory enforcement agenda or propose new regulations that impose greater costs on financial services companies. Any such heightened enforcement activity or new regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may fail to set aside adequate reserves for, or otherwise underestimate our liability relating to, pending and threatened claims, with a negative effect on our earnings. We estimate our potential liability for pending and threatened claims and record reserves when appropriate pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The process is inherently subject to risk, including the risks that a judge or jury could decide a case contrary to our evaluation of the law or the facts or that a court could change or modify existing law on a particular issue important to the case. Our earnings will be adversely affected if our reserves are not adequate. The ultimate impact on us of the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the European Union remains uncertain. While the UK’s withdrawal from the EU, commonly referred to as “Brexit,” officially became effective on December 31, 2020, certain items remain to be negotiated; therefore, the final impact remains uncertain. In December 2020, the UK and the EU agreed on a trade and cooperation agreement that entered into force on May 1, 2021. While the trade and cooperation agreement covers the general objectives and framework of the relationship between the UK and the EU, it generally does not address the regulation of financial services. Instead, in March 2021, the UK and the EU agreed upon a framework for voluntary regulatory cooperation and dialogue on financial services issues between the parties in a memorandum of understanding, which is expected to be signed after certain formal steps are completed, although this has not yet occurred. Consequently, the ultimate impact of Brexit on the Corporation and the Bank remains uncertain and will depend on the terms of the post-Brexit relationships that remain to be negotiated between the UK and other EU nations, particularly in the area of financial services. We have incurred, and may in the future continue to incur, costs associated with Brexit planning measures, while unforeseen political, regulatory, or other developments related to Brexit, or operational issues associated with any organizational restructuring related thereto, may result in additional costs and disruption to our UK and EU businesses. A failure to agree to a sustainable and practical financial services regulatory relationship between the UK and the EU, whether on the basis of equivalence, mutual recognition or otherwise, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any further exits from the EU, or the possibility of such exits, would likely cause additional market disruption globally and introduce new legal and regulatory uncertainties. If we fail to comply with legal standards, we could incur liability to our clients or lose clients, which could affect our earnings negatively. Managing or servicing assets with reasonable prudence in accordance with the terms of governing documents and applicable laws is an important part of our business. Failure to comply with the terms of governing documents and applicable laws, manage adequately the risks or manage appropriately the differing interests often involved in the exercise of fiduciary responsibilities may subject us to liability or cause client dissatisfaction, which may impact negatively our earnings and growth. Strategic Risks If we are not able to attract, retain and motivate personnel, our business could be negatively affected. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract new employees, retain and motivate our existing employees, and continue to compensate our employees competitively. Competition for the best employees in most activities in which we engage can be intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain necessary personnel. Factors that affect our ability to attract and retain talented and diverse employees include our compensation and benefits programs, our profitability and our reputation for rewarding and promoting qualified employees. Our ability to attract and retain key executives and other employees may be hindered as a result of existing and potential regulations applicable to incentive compensation and other aspects of our compensation programs. These regulations may not apply to some of our competitors and to other institutions with which we compete for talent. In addition, our current or future approach to in-office and remote work arrangements may not meet the needs or expectations of our current or prospective employees, may not be perceived as favorable as compared to the arrangements offered by competitors and may not be conducive to a collaborative working environment, which could adversely affect our ability to attract, retain and motivate employees. The unexpected loss of services of necessary personnel, both in businesses and corporate functions, could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our markets, operations and clients, years of industry experience and, in some cases, the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Similarly, the loss of necessary employees, either individually or as a group, could affect our clients’ perception of our abilities adversely. The current competitive labor market may also have the effect of heightening many of these risks. Our operations, businesses and clients could be materially adversely affected by the effects of climate change or concerns related thereto. Risks related to climate change may impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations adversely. The physical risks of climate change include rising average global temperatures, rising sea levels, and an increase in the frequency and severity of extreme weather events. Such developments could disrupt our operations and resilience capabilities, those of our clients, or third parties on which we rely. Further, the consequences of climate change could negatively impact our clients’ ability to pay outstanding loans, reduce the value of collateral, or result in insurance shortfalls. Climate change could also result in transition risk arising from changes in regulations or market preferences toward a low-carbon economy. Changes in consumer and/or investor preferences, new legislation, and expanded regulatory requirements related to climate risk could adversely impact us or our clients. Our reputation and business prospects may also be damaged if we do not, or are perceived not to, effectively prepare for the potential business and operational opportunities and risks associated with climate change, including through the development and marketing of effective and competitive new products and services designed to address our clients’ climate risk-related needs. These risks include negative market perception, diminished sales effectiveness and regulatory and litigation consequences associated with greenwashing claims or a failure to execute on our public climate-related commitments or driven by association with individuals, entities, industries or products that may be inconsistent with our stated positions on climate change issues. At the same time, certain financial institutions have also been subject to significant scrutiny by regulatory agencies and government officials and other criticism and negative publicity as a result of their decisions to reduce their involvement in certain industries or projects perceived to be associated with climate change. If we do not identify, quantify, and mitigate such risks successfully, we may experience financial losses, litigation, reputational harm, and losses of investor and stakeholder confidence. Even as regulators begin to mandate additional disclosure of climate-related information by companies across sectors, there may continue to be a lack of information for more robust climate-related risk analyses. Third-party exposures to climate-related risks and other data generally are limited in availability and variable in quality. Modeling capabilities across the industry to analyze climate-related risks and interconnections are improving but remain incomplete. Legislative or regulatory uncertainties and changes regarding climate-related risk management and disclosures are likely to result in higher regulatory, compliance, credit, reputational and other risks and costs, and may subject us to evolving and potentially conflicting requirements in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. If we do not develop and execute strategic plans successfully, our growth may be impacted negatively. Our growth depends upon successful, consistent development and execution of our business strategies. A failure to develop and execute these strategies may impact growth negatively. A failure to grow organically or to integrate successfully an acquisition could have an adverse effect on our business. The challenges arising from generating organic growth or the integration of an acquired business may include preserving valuable relationships with employees, clients, suppliers and other business partners, delivering enhanced products and services, as well as combining accounting, data processing and internal control systems. To the extent we enter into transactions to acquire complementary businesses and/or technologies, we may not achieve the expected benefits of such transactions, which could result in increased costs, lowered revenues, ineffective deployment of capital, regulatory concerns, exit costs or diminished competitive position or reputation. These risks may be increased if the acquired company operates internationally or in a geographic location where we do not already have significant business operations. Execution of our business strategies also may require certain regulatory approvals or consents, which may include approvals of the Federal Reserve Board and other domestic and non-U.S. regulatory authorities. These regulatory authorities have the ability to impose conditions on the activities or transactions contemplated by our business strategies which may impact negatively our ability to realize fully the expected benefits of certain opportunities. Further, acquisitions we announce may not be completed, or completed in the time frame anticipated, if we do not receive the required regulatory approvals, if regulatory approvals are significantly delayed or if other closing conditions are not satisfied. We are subject to intense competition in all aspects of our businesses, which could have a negative effect on our ability to maintain satisfactory prices and grow our earnings. We provide a broad range of financial products and services in highly competitive markets. We compete against large, well-capitalized, and geographically diverse companies that are capable of offering a wide array of financial products and services at competitive prices. In certain businesses, such as foreign exchange trading, electronic networks present a competitive challenge. Additionally, technological advances and the growth of internet-based commerce have made it possible for other types of institutions to offer a variety of products and services competitive with certain areas of our business. Many of these nontraditional service providers have fewer regulatory constraints and some have lower cost structures. The same may be said for competitors based in non-U.S. jurisdictions, where legal and regulatory environments may be more favorable than those applicable to the Corporation and the Bank as U.S.-domiciled financial institutions. These competitive pressures may have a negative effect on our earnings and ability to grow. Pricing pressures, as a result of the willingness of competitors to offer comparable or improved products or services at a lower price, also may result in a reduction in the price we can charge for our products and services, which could have, and in some cases has had, a negative effect on our ability to maintain or increase our profitability. Damage to our reputation could have a direct and negative effect on our ability to compete, grow and generate revenue. The failure or perceived failure to meet or appropriately address client expectations or fiduciary or other obligations, operational failures, legal and regulatory requirements, potential conflicts of interest, cybersecurity and privacy, social and sustainability concerns related to our business activities or any other of the risks discussed in this Item 1A could materially and adversely affect our reputation as well as our ability to attract and retain clients or employees. Additionally, the actual or alleged actions of our affiliates, vendors or other third parties with which we do business, the actual or alleged actions or statements of our employees or adverse publicity could negatively impact our reputation and significantly harm our business prospects. Damage to our reputation for delivery of a high level of service could undermine the confidence of clients and prospects in our ability to serve them and accordingly affect our earnings negatively. Damage to our reputation also could affect the confidence of rating agencies, regulators, stockholders and other parties in a wide range of transactions that are important to our business and the performance of our common stock. Failure to maintain our reputation ultimately could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our balance sheet or grow our business. Actions by the financial services industry generally or by other members of or individuals in the financial services industry also could impact our reputation negatively or lead to a general loss of confidence in, or impact market perception of, financial institutions that could negatively affect us. Further, whereas negative public opinion once was driven primarily by adverse news coverage in traditional media, the proliferation of social media channels utilized by us and third parties, as well as the personal use of social media by our employees and others, may increase the risk of negative publicity, including through the rapid dissemination of inaccurate, misleading or false information, which could harm our reputation or have other negative consequences. We need to invest in innovation constantly, and the inability or failure to do so may affect our businesses and earnings negatively. Our success in the competitive environment in which we operate requires consistent investment of capital and human resources in innovation, particularly in light of the current “FinTech” environment, in which the financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes and financial institutions are investing significantly in evaluating new technologies, such as artificial intelligence, machine learning, blockchain and other distributed ledger technologies, and developing potentially industry-changing new products, services and industry standards. Our investment is directed at generating new products and services, and adapting existing products and services to the evolving standards and demands of the marketplace. Among other things, investing in innovation helps us maintain a mix of products and services that keeps pace with our competitors and achieve acceptable margins. Our investment also focuses on enhancing the delivery of our products and services in order to compete successfully for new clients or gain additional business from existing clients, and includes investment in technological innovation as well. Effectively identifying gaps or weaknesses in our product offerings also is important to our success. Failure to keep pace with our competition in any of these areas could affect our business opportunities, growth and earnings adversely. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with innovation efforts, including an increased risk that new and emerging technologies may expose us to increased cybersecurity and other information technology threats. We must invest significant time and resources in developing and marketing new products and services, and expected timetables for the introduction and development of new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not be met. Further, our revenues and costs may fluctuate because new products and services generally require start-up costs while corresponding revenues take time to develop or may not develop at all. Failure to understand or appreciate fully the risks associated with development or delivery of new product and service offerings may affect our businesses and earnings negatively. The success of our innovation efforts depends, in part, on the successful implementation of new product and service initiatives. Not only must we keep pace with competitors in the development of these new offerings, but we must accurately price them (as well as existing products) on a risk-adjusted basis and deliver them to clients effectively. Our identification of risks arising from new products and services, both in their design and implementation, and effective responses to those identified risks, including pricing, is key to the success of our efforts at innovation and investment in new product and service offerings. Our success with large, complex clients requires an understanding of the market and legal, regulatory and accounting standards in various jurisdictions. A significant portion of our business involves providing certain services to large, complex clients which requires an understanding of the market and legal, regulatory and accounting standards in various jurisdictions. Any failure to understand, address or comply with those standards appropriately could affect our growth prospects or affect our reputation negatively. We identify and manage risk through our business strategies and plans and our risk management practices and controls. If we fail to identify and manage significant risks successfully, we could incur financial loss, suffer damage to our reputation that could restrict our ability to grow or conduct business profitably, or become subject to regulatory penalties or constraints that could limit some of our activities or make them significantly more expensive. In addition, our businesses and the markets in which we operate are continuously evolving. We may fail to understand fully the implications of changes in legal or regulatory requirements, our businesses or the financial markets or fail to enhance our risk framework to address those changes in a timely fashion. If our risk framework is ineffective, either because it fails to keep pace with changes in the financial markets, legal and regulatory requirements, our businesses, our counterparties, clients or service providers or for other reasons, we could incur losses, suffer reputational damage or find ourselves out of compliance with applicable regulatory or contractual mandates or expectations. These risks are magnified as client requirements become more complex and as our increasingly global business requires end-to-end management of operational and other processes across multiple time zones and many inter-related products and services. We may take actions to maintain client satisfaction that result in losses or reduced earnings. We may take action or incur expenses in order to maintain client satisfaction or preserve the usefulness of investments or investment vehicles we manage in light of changes in security ratings, liquidity or valuation issues or other developments, even though we are not required to do so by law or the terms of governing instruments. The risk that we will decide to take actions to maintain client satisfaction that result in losses or reduced earnings is greater in periods when credit or equity markets are deteriorating in value or are particularly volatile and liquidity in markets is disrupted. Other Risks The systems and models we employ to analyze, monitor and mitigate risks, as well as for other business purposes, are inherently limited, may not be effective in all cases and, in any case, cannot eliminate all risks that we face. We use various systems and models in analyzing and monitoring several risk categories, as well as for other business purposes. While we assess and improve these systems and models on an ongoing basis, there can be no assurance that they, along with other related controls, will effectively mitigate risk under all circumstances, or that they will adequately mitigate any risk or loss to us. As with any systems and models, there are inherent limitations because they involve techniques and judgments that cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome in the markets in which we operate, nor can they anticipate the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Further, these systems and models may fail to quantify accurately the magnitude of the risks we face or they may not be effective against all types of risk, including risks that are unidentified or unanticipated. Our measurement methodologies rely on many assumptions and historical analyses and correlations. These assumptions may be incorrect, and the historical correlations on which we rely may not continue to be relevant. Consequently, the measurements that we make may not adequately capture or express the true risk profiles of our businesses or provide accurate data for other business purposes, each of which ultimately could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Errors in the underlying model or model assumptions, or inadequate model assumptions, could result in unanticipated and adverse consequences, including material loss or noncompliance with regulatory requirements or expectations. Changes in tax laws and interpretations and tax challenges may affect our earnings negatively. Both U.S. and non-U.S. governments and tax authorities, including states and municipalities, from time to time issue new, or modify existing, tax laws and regulations. These authorities may also issue new, or modify existing, interpretations of those laws and regulations. These new laws, regulations or interpretations, and our actions taken in response to, or reliance upon, such changes in the tax laws may impact our tax position in a manner that affects our earnings negatively. In the course of our business, we are sometimes subject to challenges from U.S. and non-U.S. tax authorities, including states and municipalities, regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income, deductions, tax credits, or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions, all of which may require a greater provision for taxes or otherwise affect earnings negatively. Changes in accounting standards may be difficult to predict and could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. New accounting standards, changes to existing accounting standards, or changes in the interpretation of existing accounting standards by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC or bank regulatory agencies, or otherwise reflected in GAAP, potentially could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. These changes are difficult to predict and in some cases we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the revised treatment of certain transactions or activities, or even the restatement of consolidated financial statements for prior periods. Our ability to return capital to stockholders is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and may be limited by U.S. banking laws and regulations, applicable provisions of Delaware law, or our failure to pay full and timely dividends on our preferred stock and the terms of our outstanding debt. Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive only such dividends and other distributions of capital as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments under Delaware law. Although we have declared cash dividends on shares of our common stock historically, we are not required to do so. In addition to the approval of our Board of Directors, our ability to take certain actions, including our ability to pay dividends, repurchase stock, and make other capital distributions, is dependent upon, among other things, their payment being made in accordance with the capital plan rules and capital adequacy standards of the Federal Reserve Board. A significant source of funds for the Corporation is dividends from the Bank. As a result, our ability to pay dividends on the Corporation’s common stock will depend in large part on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to the Corporation. There are various legal limitations on the extent to which the Bank and the Corporation’s other subsidiaries can supply funds to the Corporation by dividend or otherwise. Dividend payments by the Bank to the Corporation in the future will require continued generation of earnings by the Bank and could require regulatory approval under certain circumstances. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Corporation in the future, our ability to pay dividends on the Corporation’s common stock would be affected adversely. Our ability to declare or pay dividends on, or purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, shares of our common stock or any of our shares that rank junior to our preferred stock as to the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of any assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation also generally will be prohibited in the event that we do not declare and pay in full dividends on our Series D Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock (Series D Preferred Stock) and Series E Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock (Series E Preferred Stock). Further, in the future if we default on certain of our outstanding debt we will be prohibited from making dividend payments on our common stock until such payments have been brought current. Any reduction or elimination of our common stock dividend, or even our failure to maintain the common stock dividend level in a manner comparable to our competitors, likely would have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. For more information on dividend restrictions, see “Supervision and Regulation—Payment of Dividends” and “Supervision and Regulation—Capital Planning and Stress Testing” in Item 1, “Business.” Additionally, on October 19, 2021, we announced that our Board authorized a share repurchase program to repurchase up to 25.0 million shares of the Corporation’s outstanding common stock. The Corporation retains the ability to repurchase when circumstances warrant and applicable regulation permits. The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, which was signed into law in August 2022, imposes a 1% excise tax on the fair market value of stock repurchases after December 31, 2022. There have been recent proposals to significantly increase this excise tax rate. Any such material increases may impact our future strategies relating to the return of capital to our shareholders, including the size of, or execution against, current or future repurchase programs related to shares of our common stock.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following is management’s discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations (MD&A) of Northern Trust Corporation (Corporation) for the year ended December 31, 2022. The following should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related footnotes included in this report. Investors also should read the section entitled “Forward-Looking Statements.” BUSINESS OVERVIEW The Corporation is a leading provider of wealth management, asset servicing, asset management and banking solutions to corporations, institutions, families and individuals. The Corporation focuses on managing and servicing client assets through its two client-focused reporting segments: Asset Servicing and Wealth Management. During the first quarter of 2022, the Corporation changed the name of its Corporate & Institutional Services segment to “Asset Servicing.” Asset management and related services are provided to Asset Servicing and Wealth Management clients primarily by the Asset Management business. The Corporation conducts business through various U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries, including The Northern Trust Company (the Bank). The Corporation was formed as a holding company for the Bank in 1971. The Corporation has a global presence with offices in 25 U.S. states and Washington, D.C., and across 23 locations in Canada, Europe, the Middle East and the Asia-Pacific region. Except where the context requires otherwise, the terms “Northern Trust,” “we,” “us,” “our,” “its,” or similar terms refers to the Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. FINANCIAL OVERVIEW TABLE 4: FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Net Income decreased $209.3 million, or 14%, to $1.34 billion in 2022 from $1.55 billion in 2021. Earnings per diluted common share was $6.14 in 2022 compared to $7.14 in 2021. Return on average common equity decreased to 12.7% in 2022 from 13.9% in 2021. Included in Net Income were impacts from the changes in monetary policy implemented by the Federal Reserve Board to address inflation, which positively impacted Net Interest Income while dampening equity market MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS indices, adversely impacting fees earned based on market values. Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees increased 2% in 2022, as compared to a 9% increase in 2021. The impacts of tightening in the labor market is reflected in our Compensation expense. Inflationary pressures were also reflected in higher Equipment and Software and Outside Services expense. Results in 2022 also included $213.0 million of pre-tax losses recognized in conjunction with an intent to sell certain available for sale debt securities, $44.1 million of pre-tax pension settlement charges, $32.0 million of pre-tax severance-related charges, and $14.0 million of pre-tax occupancy charges related to early lease exits. Revenue increased $296.7 million to $6.76 billion in 2022 from $6.46 billion in the prior year, primarily driven by increases in Net Interest Income of 36% and Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees of 2%, partially offset by increased investment securities losses and a decrease in Other Operating Income of 22%. Beginning in 2022, Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees were impacted by the change in classification of certain fees that were previously recorded in Other Operating Income or as a reduction of Other Operating Expense. This change resulted in no impact to Net Income. The accounting reclassification increased Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees in the current year by $65.6 million, with a $25.6 million decrease in Other Operating Income and a $40.0 million increase in Other Operating Expense. The classification changes are considered by the Corporation’s management to be a better representation of the underlying nature of the business as they are directly tied to client asset levels and the related services are more akin to our core service offerings. Prior-year amounts have not been reclassified. Client AUC/A decreased 16% from $16.25 trillion as of December 31, 2021 to $13.60 trillion as of December 31, 2022, primarily reflecting unfavorable markets and unfavorable currency translation. Client assets under custody, a component of AUC/A, decreased 16% from $12.61 trillion as of December 31, 2021 to $10.60 trillion as of December 31, 2022. Client assets under custody included $6.91 trillion of global custody assets as of December 31, 2022, which decreased 16% from $8.24 trillion as of December 31, 2021. Client assets under management decreased 22% to $1.25 trillion as of December 31, 2022 from $1.61 trillion as of December 31, 2021 due to net outflows, unfavorable markets and unfavorable currency translation. The Provision for Credit Losses in 2022 was $12.0 million as compared to a release of credit reserves of $81.5 million in 2021. The provision during 2022 was primarily due to an increase in the reserve evaluated on a collective basis, which relates to pooled financial assets sharing similar risk characteristics. The increase was driven by weaker macroeconomic conditions and portfolio growth, partially offset by improvements in credit quality. The increase in the collective basis reserve was primarily reflected in the commercial real estate and commercial and institutional portfolios . The prior-year release of credit reserves primarily reflected a decrease in the reserve evaluated on a collective basis, driven by improvements in projected economic conditions at the time and portfolio credit quality, partially offset by portfolio growth. The decrease in the collective basis reserve was primarily reflected in the commercial and institutional portfolio. Noninterest Expense of $4.98 billion in 2022 increased $447.0 million, or 10%, from $4.54 billion in 2021, primarily reflecting increased Compensation, Equipment and Software, Other Operating Expense and Outside Services. The Provision for Income Taxes in 2022 totaled $430.3 million, representing an effective tax rate of 24.4%. The Provision for Income Taxes in 2021 totaled $464.8 million, representing an effective tax rate of 23.1%. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily driven by a higher net impact from international operations, including limitations on the U.S. foreign tax credit and reserves for uncertain tax positions, partially offset by increased tax benefits from tax-credit investments and tax-exempt income. Northern Trust continued to maintain a strong capital position during 2022, with all capital ratios exceeding those required for classification as “well-capitalized” under federal bank regulatory capital requirements. For additional information, please refer to the “Capital Management” section. CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following information summarizes our consolidated results of operations for 2022 compared to 2021. For a discussion related to the consolidated results of operations for 2021 compared to 2020, refer to Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021 (2021 Form 10-K), which was filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission on February 28, 2022. Revenue Northern Trust generates the majority of its revenue from Noninterest Income that primarily consists of Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees. Net Interest Income comprises the remainder of revenue and consists of Interest Income generated by earning assets, net of Interest Expense on deposits and borrowed funds. Revenue in 2022 of $6.76 billion increased $296.7 million, or 5%, from $6.46 billion in 2021. Noninterest Income represented 72% and 79% of total revenue in 2022 and 2021, respectively, and totaled $4.87 billion in 2022, which decreased $207.8 million, or 4%, from $5.08 billion in 2021. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Noninterest Income in 2022 decreased primarily due to increased investment securities losses and lower Other Operating Income, partially offset by higher Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees. Investment Security Gains (Losses), net of $214.0 million of losses in 2022 increased $213.7 million from $0.3 million of losses in 2021 primarily due to a $213 million loss arising from an intent to sell certain available for sale debt securities, which were sold in January 2023. Other Operating Income of $191.3 million in 2022 decreased $52.6 million, or 22%, from $243.9 million in the prior year, primarily due to lower miscellaneous income, the accounting reclassification, and gains from property sales in the prior-year, partially offset by increased income related to a bank-owned life insurance program. Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees of $4.43 billion in 2022 increased $71.5 million, or 2%, from $4.36 billion in 2021, primarily due to lower money market fee waivers, the accounting reclassification and new business, partially offset by unfavorable markets and unfavorable currency translation. Net Interest Income on a fully taxable equivalent (FTE) basis in 2022 of $1.93 billion increased $514.5 million, or 36%, from $1.42 billion in 2021, due to higher average interest rates and favorable balance sheet mix shift. The net interest margin on an FTE basis increased to 1.39% in 2022 from 0.99% in 2021, primarily due to higher average interest rates and favorable balance sheet mix shift. Average earning assets decreased $5.0 billion, or 3%, from $143.9 billion in 2021 to $138.8 billion in 2022, primarily reflecting lower levels of Securities and short-term interest bearing deposits, partially offset by higher levels of Loans. Additional information regarding Northern Trust’s revenue by type is provided in the following table. TABLE 5: REVENUE (1) Net Interest Income stated on a GAAP basis. Net Interest Income on an FTE basis includes FTE adjustments of $45.6 million, $35.6 million, and $34.4 million for 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. A reconciliation of total consolidated revenue, Net Interest Income and net interest margin on a GAAP basis to revenue, Net Interest Income and net interest margin on an FTE basis, respectively, (each of which is a non-GAAP financial measure) is provided in “Supplemental Information—Reconciliation to Fully Taxable Equivalent” within this “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” section. Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees were $4.43 billion in 2022 compared with $4.36 billion in 2021, and are based primarily on the market value of assets held in custody, managed or serviced; the volume of transactions; securities lending volume and spreads; and fees for other services rendered. Certain market value calculations on which fees are based are performed on a monthly or quarterly basis in arrears. Northern Trust voluntarily waived $64.2 million of money market fund fees in 2022 and $287.8 million of money market fund fees in 2021. Beginning in 2022, Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees were impacted by the change in classification of certain fees that were previously recorded in Other Operating Income or as a reduction of Other Operating Expense. The accounting reclassification increased Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees in the current year by $65.6 million, with a $25.6 million decrease in Other Operating Income and a $40.0 million increase in Other Operating Expense. Prior-year amounts have not been reclassified. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The components of Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees are provided in the following table. TABLE 6: TRUST, INVESTMENT AND OTHER SERVICING FEES Asset Servicing Asset Servicing Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees are primarily attributable to services related to custody, fund administration, investment management, and securities lending. Custody and Fund Administration fees, the largest component of Asset Servicing fees, are driven primarily by values of client AUC/A, transaction volumes and the number of accounts. The asset values used to calculate these fees vary depending on the individual fee arrangements negotiated with each client. Custody fees related to asset values are client specific and are priced based on month-end market values, quarter-end market values, or the average of month-end market values for the quarter. The fund administration fees that are asset-value-related are priced using month-end, quarter-end, or average daily balances. Investment Management fees are based generally on market values of client assets under management throughout the period. Typically, the asset values used to calculate fee revenue are based on a one-month or one-quarter lag. Securities Lending revenue is affected by market values; the demand for securities to be lent, which drives volumes; and the interest rate spread earned on the investment of cash deposited by investment firms as collateral for securities they have borrowed. The Other fee category in Asset Servicing includes such products as investment risk and analytical services, benefit payments, and other services. Revenue from these products is based generally on the volume of services provided or a fixed fee. Custody and Fund Administration fees decreased in 2022 from 2021 primarily due to unfavorable currency translation and unfavorable markets. Investment Management fees in 2022 increased from 2021 primarily due to lower money market fund fee waivers, partially offset by asset outflows, unfavorable currency translation and unfavorable markets. Other Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees increased in 2022 from 2021 primarily due to the accounting reclassification. The following tables provide a breakdown of the Asset Servicing assets under custody and under management. TABLE 7: ASSET SERVICING ASSETS UNDER CUSTODY MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS TABLE 8: ASSET SERVICING ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT Cash and other assets deposited by investment firms as collateral for securities borrowed from custody clients are managed by Northern Trust and are included in assets under custody and under management. This securities lending collateral totaled $148.3 billion and $195.6 billion at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Wealth Management Wealth Management fee income is calculated primarily based on market values and is impacted by both one-month and one-quarter lagged asset values. Fee income in the regions (Central, East and West) decreased in 2022 from 2021 primarily due to unfavorable markets, partially offset by lower money market fund fee waivers. Global Family Office fee income increased primarily due to lower money market fund fee waivers and new business. The following tables provide a summary of Wealth Management assets under custody and under management. TABLE 9: WEALTH MANAGEMENT ASSETS UNDER CUSTODY TABLE 10: WEALTH MANAGEMENT ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT The Wealth Management regions shown are comprised of the following: Central includes Illinois, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Ohio and Wisconsin; East includes Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Massachusetts, New York, Pennsylvania, and Washington, D.C.; West includes Arizona, California, Colorado, Nevada, Texas, and Washington. Global Family Office provides customized services, including but not limited to investment consulting, global custody, fiduciary, and private banking, to meet the complex financial needs of ultra-high-net-worth individuals and family offices across the globe. Market Indices The following tables present selected market indices and the percentage changes year over year to provide context regarding equity and fixed income market impacts on the Corporation’s results. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS TABLE 11: EQUITY MARKET INDICES TABLE 12: FIXED INCOME MARKET INDICES Client Assets Northern Trust, in the normal course of business, holds assets under custody/administration and management in a fiduciary or agency capacity for its clients. In accordance with GAAP, these assets are not assets of Northern Trust and are not included in its consolidated balance sheets. AUC/A and assets under management are a driver of our Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees. For the purposes of disclosing AUC/A, to the extent that both custody and administration services are provided, the value of the assets is included only once in this amount. At December 31, 2022, AUC/A decreased from December 31, 2021, primarily reflecting unfavorable markets and unfavorable currency translation. Assets under custody, a component of AUC/A, at December 31, 2022, decreased from December 31, 2021 and included $6.91 trillion of global custody assets compared to $8.24 trillion at December 31, 2021. The following table presents AUC/A by reporting segment. TABLE 13: ASSETS UNDER CUSTODY/ADMINISTRATION BY REPORTING SEGMENT The following table presents assets under custody, a component of AUC/A, by reporting segment. TABLE 14: ASSETS UNDER CUSTODY BY REPORTING SEGMENT Consolidated assets under custody decreased from the prior year, primarily reflecting unfavorable markets and unfavorable currency translation. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table presents the investment allocation of Northern Trust’s custodied assets by reporting segment. TABLE 15: ALLOCATION OF ASSETS UNDER CUSTODY The following table presents Northern Trust’s assets under custody by investment type. TABLE 16: ASSETS UNDER CUSTODY BY INVESTMENT TYPE The following table presents Northern Trust’s assets under management by reporting segment. TABLE 17: ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT BY REPORTING SEGMENT Assets under management at the end of 2022 decreased from 2021. The decrease primarily reflected net outflows, unfavorable markets and unfavorable currency translation. The following tables present the investment allocation and management style of Northern Trust’s assets under management by reporting segment. TABLE 18: ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT BY INVESTMENT TYPE MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS TABLE 19: ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT BY MANAGEMENT STYLE Other Noninterest Income The components of Other Noninterest Income, and a discussion of significant changes during 2022 and 2021, are provided below. TABLE 20: OTHER NONINTEREST INCOME Beginning in 2022, Other Operating Income was impacted by the change in classification of certain fees to Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees. The impact to Other Operating Income in the current year was a decrease of $25.6 million relating to amounts now recorded in Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees. Prior-year amounts have not been reclassified. Foreign Exchange Trading Income Northern Trust provides foreign exchange services in the normal course of business as an integral part of its global custody services. Active management of currency positions, within conservative limits, also contributes to foreign exchange trading income. Foreign Exchange Trading Income in 2022 decreased from 2021, primarily driven by lower foreign exchange swap activity in Treasury, partially offset by higher client volumes. Treasury Management Fees Treasury Management Fees, generated from cash and treasury management products and services provided to clients, in 2022 decreased from 2021, primarily due to an increase in the earnings credit rate applied to client balances. Security Commissions and Trading Income Security Commissions and Trading Income, generated primarily from securities brokerage services provided by Northern Trust Securities, Inc., in 2022 decreased from 2021, primarily driven by lower interest rate swap activity and lower bond underwriting referral fees, partially offset by higher revenue from core brokerage. Other Operating Income Other Operating Income in 2022 decreased from 2021 primarily due to lower miscellaneous income, the accounting reclassification, and gains from property sales in the prior-year, partially offset by increased income related to a bank-owned life insurance program. Please refer to Note 19, “Other Operating Income” included under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for additional details related to other operating income. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Investment Security Gains (Losses), Net Investment Security Gains (Losses), net included a $213.0 million loss arising from an intent to sell $2.1 billion of available for sale debt securities, which were sold in January 2023 as part of a balance sheet repositioning. Please refer to Note 34, “Subsequent Event” included under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for additional details related to the January 2023 sale of the available for sale debt securities. Net Interest Income Net Interest Income is defined as the total of Interest Income and amortized fees on earning assets, less Interest Expense on deposits and borrowed funds, adjusted for the impact of interest-related hedging activity. Earning assets — including Federal Funds Sold, Securities Purchased under Agreements to Resell, Interest-Bearing Due from and Deposits with Banks, Federal Reserve and Other Central Bank Deposits, Securities, Loans and Leases, and Other Interest-Earning Assets — are financed by a large base of interest-bearing funds that include client deposits, short-term borrowings, Senior Notes and Long-Term Debt. Short-term borrowings include Federal Funds Purchased, Securities Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase, and Other Borrowings. Earning assets also are funded by noninterest-related funds, which include demand deposits and Stockholders’ Equity. Net Interest Income is subject to variations in the level and mix of earning assets and interest-bearing funds and their relative sensitivity to interest rates. In addition, the levels of nonaccruing assets and client compensating deposit balances used to pay for services impact Net Interest Income. Net interest margin is the difference between what we earn on our assets and what we pay for deposits and other sources of funding. The direction and level of interest rates are important factors in our earnings. Net interest margin is calculated by dividing annualized Net Interest Income by average interest-earning assets. Net Interest Income stated on an FTE basis is a non-GAAP financial measure that facilitates the analysis of asset yields. Management believes an FTE presentation provides a clearer indication of net interest margins for comparative purposes. When adjusted to an FTE basis, yields on taxable, nontaxable, and partially taxable assets are comparable; however, the adjustment to an FTE basis has no impact on Net Income. A reconciliation of Net Interest Income on a GAAP basis to Net Interest Income on an FTE basis is provided in “Supplemental Information—Reconciliation to Fully Taxable Equivalent” within this “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” section. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following tables present an analysis of average daily balances and interest rates affecting Net Interest Income and an analysis of Net Interest Income changes. TABLE 21: AVERAGE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS WITH ANALYSIS OF NET INTEREST INCOME (INTEREST AND RATE ON A FULLY TAXABLE EQUIVALENT BASIS) (1) (1) Northern Trust’s non-U.S. activities are primarily related to its asset servicing, asset management, foreign exchange, cash management, and commercial banking businesses. The operations of Northern Trust are managed on a reporting segment basis and include components of both U.S and non-U.S. source income and assets. Non-U.S. source income and assets are not separately identified in Northern Trust’s internal management reporting system. However, Northern Trust is required to disclose non-U.S. activities based on the domicile of the customer. Due to the complex and integrated nature of Northern Trust’s activities, it is difficult to segregate with precision revenues, expenses and assets between U.S. and non-U.S.-domiciled customers. On the basis of averages, the percentage of total assets attributable to foreign activities was 18%, 19%, and 20% as of December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. On the basis of averages, the percentage of total liabilities attributable to foreign activities was 55%, 58%, and 56% as of December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. For additional information, refer to the Geographic Area Information section of Note 31, “Reporting Segments and Related Information,” provided in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” (2) Interest-Bearing Due from and Deposits with Banks includes the interest-bearing component of Cash and Due from Banks and Interest-Bearing Deposits with Banks as presented on the consolidated balance sheets. (3) Includes the impact of balance sheet netting under master netting arrangements of approximately $3.6 billion in 2022. Excluding the impact of netting, the average interest rate on Securities Purchased under Agreements to Resell would be approximately 2.23% in 2022. Excluding the impact of netting, the average interest rate on Securities Sold under Agreements to Repurchase would be approximately 2.27% in 2022. Beginning in the third quarter of 2021, Northern Trust became an approved Government Securities Division (GSD) netting and sponsoring member in the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation (FICC) sponsored member program, through which Northern Trust submits eligible repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions in U.S. Government securities between Northern Trust and its sponsored member clients for novation and clearing. Northern Trust nets securities sold under repurchase agreements against those purchased under resale agreements when FICC is the counterparty. (4) Average balances include nonaccrual loans and leases. (5) Other Interest-Earning Assets include certain community development investments, collateral deposits with certain securities depositories and clearing houses, and Federal Home Loan Bank and Federal Reserve stock, which are classified in Other Assets on the consolidated balance sheets. (6) Cash and Due from Banks and Other Central Bank Deposits includes the noninterest-bearing component of Federal Reserve and Other Central Bank Deposits on the consolidated balance sheets. (7) Rate calculations are based on actual balances rather than the rounded amounts presented in the Average Consolidated Balance Sheets with Analysis of Net Interest Income. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS TABLE 22: ANALYSIS OF NET INTEREST INCOME CHANGES DUE TO VOLUME AND RATE (1) Changes not due solely to average balance changes or rate changes are allocated proportionately to average balance and rate based on their relative absolute magnitudes. Notes:    Net Interest Income (FTE), a non-GAAP financial measure, includes adjustments to a fully taxable equivalent basis for loans, securities and other interest-earning assets. The adjustments are based on a federal income tax rate of 21.0%, where the rate is adjusted for applicable state income taxes, net of related federal tax benefit. Total taxable equivalent interest adjustments amounted to $45.6 million in 2022, $35.6 million in 2021 and $34.4 million in 2020. A reconciliation of Net Interest Income and net interest margin on a GAAP basis to Net Interest Income and net interest margin on an FTE basis (each of which is a non-GAAP financial measure) is provided in “Supplemental Information—Reconciliation to Fully Taxable Equivalent” within this “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” section. Net interest margin is calculated by dividing annualized net interest income by average interest-earning assets. Interest revenue on cash collateral positions is reported above within Interest-Bearing Due from and Deposits with Banks and within Loans and Leases. Interest expense on cash collateral positions is reported above within Non-U.S. Offices Interest-Bearing Deposits. Related cash collateral received from and deposited with derivative counterparties is recorded net of the associated derivative contract in Other Assets and Other Liabilities, respectively. Net Interest Income in 2022 increased from 2021. Net Interest Income, stated on an FTE basis, increased from 2021, due to a higher net interest margin, partially offset by lower levels of average earning assets. Average earning assets in 2022 decreased from 2021, primarily reflecting lower levels of Securities and short-term interest bearing deposits, partially offset by higher levels of Loans. Funding of the balance sheet reflected lower levels of client deposits, partially offset by higher short-term borrowing activity. The net interest margin in 2022 increased from 2021. The net interest margin on an FTE basis in 2022 increased from 2021, primarily due to higher average interest rates and favorable balance sheet mix shift. Federal Reserve and Other Central Bank Deposits averaged $36.2 billion in 2022, which decreased $2.8 billion, or 7%, from $39.0 billion in 2021, due to deposit outflows. Average Securities were $55.0 billion and decreased $4.6 billion, or 8%, from $59.6 billion in 2021. Average Other Interest-Earning Assets include certain community development investments, Federal Home Loan Bank stock, Federal Reserve stock, and collateral deposits with certain securities depositories and clearing houses, of $936.2 million, $149.3 million, $70.0 million, and $44.6 million respectively, which are recorded in Other Assets on the consolidated balance sheets. Average taxable Securities were $52.4 billion in 2022 and MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS $56.6 billion in 2021. Average nontaxable Securities, which represent securities that are primarily exempt from U.S. federal and state income taxes, were $2.6 billion in 2022 and $3.0 billion in 2021. Interest-Bearing Due From and Deposits with Banks averaged $4.2 billion in 2022 and $5.8 billion in 2021. Loans and Leases averaged $41.0 billion, which increased $3.8 billion, or 10%, from $37.2 billion in 2021, primarily reflecting higher levels of commercial and institutional, non-U.S., commercial real estate, private client and residential real estate loans. Commercial and institutional loans averaged $12.3 billion and increased $1.9 billion, or 18%, from $10.4 billion for 2021. Non-U.S. loans averaged $3.5 billion and increased $946.8 million, or 37%, from $2.5 billion for 2021. Commercial real estate loans averaged $4.4 billion and increased $455.2 million, or 11%, from $4.0 billion for 2021. Private client loans averaged $13.9 billion and increased $191.3 million, or 1%, from $13.7 billion for 2021. Residential real estate loans averaged $6.4 billion and increased $161.9 million, or 3%, from $6.2 billion for 2021. Northern Trust utilizes a diverse mix of funding sources. Average Interest-Bearing Deposits decreased $2.6 billion, or 3%, to $96.3 billion in 2022 from $98.9 billion in 2021. Average Interest-Related Funds decreased $1.1 billion, or 1%, to $107.6 billion in 2022 from $108.7 billion in 2021. The balances within short-term borrowing classifications vary based on funding requirements and strategies, interest rate levels, changes in the volume of lower-cost deposit sources, and the availability of collateral to secure these borrowings. Average net noninterest-related funds decreased $4.0 billion, or 11%, to $31.2 billion in 2022 from $35.2 billion in 2021, primarily resulting from lower levels of Demand and Other Noninterest-Bearing Deposits. Average Demand and Other Noninterest-Bearing Deposits decreased $1.9 billion , or 6%, to $29.3 billion in 2022 from $31.1 billion in 2021. The average rate on total source of funds was 0.70% in 2022 and 0.02% in 2021. Interest expense for Interest-Bearing Deposits in the current year was driven by higher interest rates. Average Non-U.S. Offices Interest-Bearing Deposits comprised 68% and 70% of total average Interest-Bearing Deposits for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Stockholders’ Equity Stockholders’ Equity averaged $11.1 billion in 2022, compared with $11.7 billion in 2021. The decrease in average Stockholders’ Equity of $615.6 million, or 5%, was primarily attributable to lower Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income relative to the prior year, partially offset by higher Retained Earnings. During the year ended December 31, 2022 , the Corporation, through common stock dividends and repurchase of 311,536 shares of common stock, returned $648.4 million in capital to common stockholders. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Corporation maintained its quarterly common stock dividend at $0.70 per share and repurchased 2,527,544 shares of common stock, returning $861.5 million in capital to common stockholders. The Corporation’s current stock repurchase authorization to repurchase up to 25.0 million shares was approved by the Board of Directors in October 2021. Shares are repurchased by the Corporation to, among other things, manage the Corporation’s capital levels. Repurchased shares are used for general purposes, including the issuance of shares under stock option and other equity incentive plans. The repurchase authorization approved by the Board of Directors has no expiration date, thus the Corporation retains the ability to resume repurchases thereunder when circumstances warrant and applicable regulations permit. The 2021 purchases were predominantly made pursuant to the repurchase program authorized by the Board of Directors in July 2018. Please refer to Note 14, “Stockholders’ Equity,” provided in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Provision for Credit Losses There was a $12.0 million Provision for Credit Losses in 2022, as compared to a release of credit reserves of $81.5 million in 2021. The provision during 2022 was primarily due to an increase in the reserve evaluated on a collective basis, which relates to pooled financial assets sharing similar risk characteristics. The increase was driven by weaker macroeconomic conditions and portfolio growth, partially offset by improvements in credit quality. The increase in the collective basis reserve was primarily reflected in the commercial real estate and commercial and institutional portfolios . The prior-year release of credit reserves primarily reflected a decrease in the reserve evaluated on a collective basis, driven by improvements in projected economic conditions at the time and portfolio credit quality, partially offset by portfolio growth. The decrease in the collective basis reserve was primarily reflected in the commercial and institutional portfolio. Net recoveries in 2022 totaled $4.2 million resulting from $6.0 million of charge-offs and $10.2 million of recoveries, compared to net recoveries of $6.3 million in 2021 resulting from $0.7 million of charge-offs and $7.0 million of recoveries. For additional discussion of the Allowance for Credit Losses, refer to the “Asset Quality” section. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Noninterest Expense Beginning in 2022, Other Operating Expense was impacted by the change in classification of certain amounts previously reported as a reduction of Other Operating Expense to Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees. The impact to Other Operating Expense in 2022 was $40.0 million relating to amounts now recorded in Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees rather than as a reduction of Other Operating Expense. Prior-year amounts have not been reclassified. Noninterest Expense for 2022 increased from 2021, primarily reflecting increased Compensation, Equipment and Software, Other Operating Expense and Outside Services. Employee Benefits expense in 2022 included pension settlement charges of $44.1 million as compared to $27.9 million for the U.S. Qualified Plan. The components of Noninterest Expense and a discussion of significant changes during 2022 and 2021 are provided below. TABLE 23: NONINTEREST EXPENSE Compensation Compensation expense, the largest component of Noninterest Expense, increased in 2022 from 2021, primarily reflecting higher salary expense and equity incentives. The current year reflects $30.4 million of severance-related charges. Staff on a full-time equivalent basis totaled approximately 23,600 at December 31, 2022, up 12% from approximately 21,100 at December 31, 2021. Employee Benefits Employee Benefits expense in 2022 increased from 2021, primarily due to higher medical costs and pension settlement charge, partially offset by lower ongoing pension expense associated with a plan remeasurement. There were $44.1 million and $27.9 million of pension settlement charges in 2022 and 2021, respectively. Outside Services Outside Services expense in 2022 increased from 2021, primarily due to higher technical services costs and consulting services, partially offset by lower third-party advisory fees. Equipment and Software Equipment and Software expense in 2022 increased from 2021, primarily reflecting higher software costs driven by continued technology investments as well as amortization. Occupancy Occupancy expense in 2022 increased from 2021, primarily due to a $14.0 million charge related to early lease exits in 2022. Other Operating Expense Other Operating Expense in 2022 increased from 2021 primarily due to the accounting reclassification, higher staff-related expense and business promotion, partially offset by lower supplemental compensation plan expense. Please refer to Note 20, “Other Operating Expense” included under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for additional details related to other operating expenses. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Provision for Income Taxes The 2022 Provision for Income Taxes was $430.3 million, representing an effective rate of 24.4%. This compares with a Provision for Income Taxes of $464.8 million and an effective rate of 23.1% in 2021. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily driven by a higher net impact from international operations, including limitations on the U.S. foreign tax credit and reserves for uncertain tax positions, partially offset by increased tax benefits from tax-credit investments and tax-exempt income. See Note 21, “Income Taxes,” provided in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for more information on income taxes. REPORTING SEGMENTS AND RELATED INFORMATION The following information summarizes our consolidated results of operations by reporting segment for 2022 compared to 2021. For a discussion related to the consolidated results of operations by reporting segment for 2021 compared to 2020, refer to Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2021 Form 10-K, which was filed with the SEC on February 28, 2022. Northern Trust is organized around its two client-focused reporting segments: Asset Servicing and Wealth Management. Asset management and related services are provided to Asset Servicing and Wealth Management clients primarily by the Asset Management business. The revenue and expenses of Asset Management and certain other support functions are allocated fully to Asset Servicing and Wealth Management. Reporting segment financial information, presented on an internal management-reporting basis, is determined by accounting systems used to allocate revenue and expense to each segment, and incorporates processes for allocating assets, liabilities, equity and the applicable interest income and expense utilizing a funds transfer pricing (FTP) methodology. Under the methodology, assets and liabilities receive a funding charge or credit that considers interest rate risk, liquidity risk, and other product characteristics on an instrument level. Additionally, segment information is presented on an FTE basis as management believes an FTE presentation provides a clearer indication of net interest income. The adjustment to an FTE basis has no impact on Net Income. Equity is allocated to the reporting segments based on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, risk, regulatory considerations, and internal metrics. Allocations of capital and certain corporate expense may not be representative of levels that would be required if the segments were independent entities. The accounting policies used for management reporting are consistent with those described in Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.” Transfers of income and expense items are recorded at cost; there is no consolidated profit or loss on sales or transfers between reporting segments. Northern Trust’s presentations are not necessarily consistent with similar information for other financial institutions. Revenues, expenses and average assets are allocated to Asset Servicing and Wealth Management, with the exception of non-recurring activities such as certain costs associated with acquisitions, divestitures, litigation, restructuring, and tax adjustments not directly attributable to a specific reporting segment, which are reported within the Other segment. Reporting segment results are subject to reclassification when organizational changes are made. The results are also subject to refinements in revenue and expense allocation methodologies, which are typically reflected on a prospective basis. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table presents the earnings and average assets for the Corporation. TABLE 24: CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION Segment results are stated on an FTE basis which has no impact on Net Income. Net Interest Income on an FTE basis includes FTE adjustments of $45.6 million, $35.6 million, and $34.4 million for 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. A reconciliation of total consolidated revenue, Net Interest Income and net interest margin on a GAAP basis to revenue, Net Interest Income and net interest margin on an FTE basis, respectively, (each of which is a non-GAAP financial measure) is provided in “Supplemental Information—Reconciliation to Fully Taxable Equivalent” within this “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” section. Asset Servicing Asset Servicing is a leading global provider of asset servicing and related services to corporate and public retirement funds, foundations, endowments, fund managers, insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, and other institutional investors around the globe. Asset servicing and related services encompass a full range of capabilities including but not limited to: custody; fund administration; investment operations outsourcing; investment management; investment risk and analytical services; employee benefit services; securities lending; foreign exchange; treasury management; brokerage services; transition management services; banking; and cash management. Client relationships are managed through the Bank and the Bank’s and the Corporation’s other subsidiaries, including support from locations in North America, Europe, the Middle East, and the Asia-Pacific region. The following table summarizes the results of operations of Asset Servicing for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020 on a management-reporting basis. TABLE 25: ASSET SERVICING RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (1) Non-GAAP financial measures stated on an FTE basis. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Asset Servicing Net Income Asset Servicing Net Income increased in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily reflecting higher Net Interest Income and Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees, partially offset by higher Noninterest Expense, Provision for Income Taxes, a provision for credit losses compared to a release in the prior year, and lower Other Noninterest Income. Asset Servicing Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees For an explanation of Asset Servicing Trust, Investment, and Other Servicing Fees, please see the “Trust, Investment, and Other Servicing Fees” section within the Consolidated Results of Operations section of the MD&A. Asset Servicing Other Noninterest Income Other Noninterest Income for 2022 decreased from 2021, primarily due to lower Other Operating Income and Treasury Management Fees, partially offset by higher Security Commissions and Trading Income. Asset Servicing Net Interest Income Net Interest Income on an FTE basis increased in 2022 from 2021, due to a higher net interest margin, partially offset by a decrease in average earning assets. Net interest margin on an FTE basis increased to 1.03% from 0.60%. Average earning assets of $104.8 billion, decreased $6.2 billion, or 6%, from $111.0 billion in the prior year. The earning assets in Asset Servicing consisted primarily of intercompany assets and loans. Funding sources were primarily comprised of non-U.S. custody-related interest-bearing deposits, which averaged $65.0 billion in 2022 as compared to $69.7 billion in 2021. Asset Servicing Provision for Credit Losses There was a Provision for Credit Losses of $2.4 million for 2022 compared to a release of credit reserves of $33.8 million for 2021. The 2022 Provision for Credit Losses was primarily due to weaker macroeconomic conditions. The release of credit reserves during 2021 reflected a decrease in the reserve evaluated on a collective basis driven by improvements in projected economic conditions at the time and portfolio credit quality. Asset Servicing Noninterest Expense Asset Servicing Noninterest Expense, which includes the direct expense of the reporting segment, indirect expense allocations for product and operating support, and indirect expense allocations for certain corporate support services, increased in 2022 from 2021. The increase primarily reflects higher expense allocations and Compensation expense. Wealth Management Wealth Management focuses on high-net-worth individuals and families, business owners, executives, professionals, retirees, and established privately-held businesses in its target markets. In supporting these targeted segments, Wealth Management provides trust, investment management, custody, and philanthropic services; financial consulting; guardianship and estate administration; family business consulting; family financial education; brokerage services; and private and business banking. Wealth Management also includes Global Family Office, which provides customized services, including but not limited to: investment consulting; global custody; fiduciary; and private banking; family office consulting, and technology solutions, to meet the complex financial and reporting needs of ultra-high-net-worth individuals and family offices across the globe. Wealth Management is one of the largest providers of advisory services in the United States with AUC/A, and assets under management of $898.5 billion, $892.3 billion, and $351.4 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2022. Wealth Management services are delivered by multidisciplinary teams through a network of offices in 19 U.S. states and Washington, D.C., as well as offices in London, Guernsey, and Abu Dhabi. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table summarizes the results of operations of Wealth Management for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020 on a management-reporting basis. TABLE 26: WEALTH MANAGEMENT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (1) Non-GAAP financial measures stated on an FTE basis. Wealth Management Net Income Wealth Management Net Income decreased in 2022, primarily reflecting higher Noninterest Expense, a provision for credit losses compared to a release of credit reserves in the prior year, and lower Other Noninterest Income, partially offset by  higher Net Interest Income and Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees. Wealth Management Trust, Investment and Other Servicing Fees For an explanation of Wealth Management Trust, Investment, and Other Servicing Fees, please see the “Trust, Investment, and Other Servicing Fees” section within the Consolidated Results of Operations section of the MD&A. Wealth Management Foreign Exchange Trading Income Foreign Exchange Trading Income for 2022 decreased from 2021, primarily due to lower allocations. Wealth Management Other Noninterest Income Other Noninterest Income for 2022 decreased from 2021, primarily due to lower Other Operating Income due to prior-year gains on property sales and lower allocations. Wealth Management Net Interest Income Net Interest Income on an FTE basis for 2022 increased from 2021, primarily attributable to an increase in earning assets and net interest margin. Net interest margin on an FTE basis increased to 2.53% from 2.47%. Average earning assets of $34.0 billion in 2022, increased $1.2 billion, or 4%, from $32.8 billion in 2021. Earning assets and funding sources for the year ended December 31, 2022 were primarily comprised of loans and domestic interest-bearing deposits, respectively. Wealth Management Provision for Credit Losses There was a Provision for Credit Losses of $9.6 million for 2022 compared to a release of credit reserves of $47.7 million in 2021. The Provision for Credit Losses during 2022 was primarily due to an increase in the reserve evaluated on a collective basis, driven by weaker economic conditions and portfolio growth, partially offset by improvements in portfolio quality. The increase in the collective basis reserve was primarily reflected in the commercial and institutional and commercial real estate portfolios. The 2021 release of credit reserves reflected a decrease in the reserve evaluated on a collective basis driven by improvements in projected economic conditions at the time and portfolio credit quality, partially offset by portfolio growth. Wealth Management Noninterest Expense Wealth Management Noninterest Expense, which includes the direct expense of the reporting segment, indirect expense allocations for product and operating support, and indirect expense allocations for certain corporate support services, increased in 2022 from 2021. The increase primarily reflects higher expense allocations and Compensation expense. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Other Income and expenses associated with non-recurring activities such as certain costs associated with acquisitions, divestitures, litigation, restructuring, and tax adjustments are included within Other. The following table summarizes the results of operations of the Other segment for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020 on a management-reporting basis. TABLE 27: OTHER RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (1) Non-GAAP financial measures stated on an FTE basis. Other—Noninterest Income Noninterest Income in 2022 decreased from 2021 primarily due to a $213.0 million loss recognized in Investment Security Gains (Losses), net on the consolidated statements of income arising from an intent to sell available for sale debt securities, which were sold in January 2023. Other—Noninterest Expense Noninterest Expense in 2022 increased from 2021, primarily due to higher non-allocated occupancy expense due to early lease exits and higher pension settlement charges compared to the prior year. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Asset Management Asset Management, through the Corporation’s various subsidiaries, supports the Asset Servicing and Wealth Management reporting segments by providing a broad range of asset management and related services and other products to clients around the world. Investment solutions are delivered through separately managed accounts, bank common and collective funds, registered investment companies, exchange traded funds, non-U.S. collective investment funds, and unregistered private investment funds. Asset Management’s capabilities include active and passive equity; active and passive fixed income; cash management; multi-asset and alternative asset classes (such as private equity and hedge funds of funds); and multi-manager advisory services and products. Asset Management’s activities also include overlay services and other risk management services. Asset Management operates internationally through subsidiaries and distribution arrangements and its revenue and expense are allocated fully to Asset Servicing and Wealth Management. At December 31, 2022, Northern Trust managed $1.25 trillion in assets for personal and institutional clients, including $898.1 billion for Asset Servicing clients and $351.4 billion for Wealth Management clients. The following table presents consolidated assets under management as of December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 by investment type. TABLE 28: CONSOLIDATED ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT BY INVESTMENT TYPE Assets under management decreased at year-end 2022 from year-end 2021. The decrease primarily reflected net outflows, unfavorable markets and unfavorable currency translation. The following table presents activity in consolidated assets under management by product during the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020. TABLE 29: ACTIVITY IN CONSOLIDATED ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT BY PRODUCT MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET REVIEW The following tables summarize selected consolidated balance sheet information. TABLE 30: SELECT CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION (1) Interest-Bearing Due from and Deposits with Banks includes the interest-bearing component of Cash and Due from Banks and Interest-Bearing Deposits with Banks as presented on the consolidated balance sheets. (2) Other Interest-Earning Assets includes certain community development investments, collateral deposits with certain securities depositories and clearing houses, and Federal Home Loan Bank and Federal Reserve stock, which are classified in Other Assets on the consolidated balance sheets. TABLE 31: SELECT AVERAGE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION (1) Interest-Bearing Due from and Deposits with Banks includes the interest-bearing component of Cash and Due from Banks and Interest-Bearing Deposits with Banks as presented on the consolidated balance sheets. (2) Other Interest-Earning Assets includes certain community development investments, collateral deposits with certain securities depositories and clearing houses, and Federal Home Loan Bank and Federal Reserve stock, which are classified in Other Assets on the consolidated balance sheets. Average balances are considered to be a better measure of balance sheet trends, as period-end balances can be impacted by the timing of deposit and withdrawal activity involving large client balances. Short-Term Borrowings. Short-term borrowings includes Federal Funds Purchased, Securities Sold under Agreements to Repurchase, and Other Borrowings. Securities Sold under Agreements to Repurchase are accounted for as collateralized MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS financings and recorded at the amounts at which the securities were sold plus accrued interest. To minimize any potential credit risk associated with these transactions, the fair value of the securities sold is monitored, limits are set on exposure with counterparties, and the financial condition of counterparties is regularly assessed. Securities Sold under Agreements to Repurchase are held by the counterparty until the repurchase. See Note 5, “Securities Purchased Under Agreements to Resell and Securities Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase,” Note 25, “Commitments and Contingent Liabilities” and Note 27, “Offsetting of Assets and Liabilities” to the consolidated financial statements provided in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional information on Northern Trust’s repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements. Stockholders’ Equity. The decrease in average Stockholders’ Equity was primarily attributable to lower Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income relative to the prior year, partially offset by higher Retained Earnings. During the year ended December 31, 2022, the Corporation declared cash dividends totaling $613.0 million to common stockholders and repurchased 311,536 shares of common stock, all of which were shares withheld to satisfy tax withholding obligations related to share-based compensation, at a total cost of $35.4 million ($113.70 average price per share). During the year ended December 31, 2022, the Corporation declared cash dividends totaling $41.8 million to preferred stockholders. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Corporation declared cash dividends totaling $593.9 million to common stockholders and repurchased 2,527,544 shares of common stock, including 394,326 shares withheld to satisfy tax withholding obligations related to share-based compensation, at a total cost of $267.6 million ($105.90 average price per share). During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Corporation declared cash dividends totaling $41.8 million to preferred stockholders. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Asset Quality Securities Portfolio The following table presents the remaining maturity and average yield of Northern Trust's held to maturity (HTM) debt securities and available for sale (AFS) debt securities by security type as of December 31, 2022. TABLE 32: REMAINING MATURITY AND AVERAGE YIELD OF HELD TO MATURITY AND AVAILABLE FOR SALE DEBT SECURITIES Note: Yield is calculated on amortized cost and presented on a taxable equivalent basis giving effect to the applicable federal and state tax rates. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Northern Trust maintains a high quality debt securities portfolio. Debt securities not explicitly rated were grouped where possible under the credit rating of the issuer of the security. The following tables provide the fair value of AFS debt securities and amortized cost of HTM debt securities by credit rating. TABLE 33: FAIR VALUE OF AVAILABLE FOR SALE DEBT SECURITIES BY CREDIT RATING As of December 31, 2022, the less than 1% of AFS debt securities not rated by Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (Moody’s), S&P Global Ratings (S&P Global) or Fitch Ratings, Inc. (Fitch Ratings) consisted of corporate debt securities. As of December 31, 2021, the 1% of AFS debt securities not rated by Moody’s, S&P Global or Fitch Ratings consisted of corporate debt securities and covered bonds. TABLE 34: AMORTIZED COST OF HELD TO MATURITY DEBT SECURITIES BY CREDIT RATING MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS As of December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, 2% and 5%, respectively, of HTM debt securities not rated by Moody’s, S&P Global or Fitch Ratings consisted of certificates of deposit with a remaining life of less than six months, as well as investments purchased by Northern Trust to fulfill its obligations under the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA). Northern Trust fulfills its obligations under the CRA by making qualified investments for purposes of supporting institutions and programs that benefit low-to-moderate income communities within Northern Trust’s market area. Net unrealized losses within the investment securities portfolio totaled $3.2 billion at December 31, 2022, compared to net unrealized losses of $187.1 million as of December 31, 2021. Net unrealized losses as of December 31, 2022 were comprised of $9.1 million and $3.2 billion of gross unrealized gains and losses, respectively. Net unrealized losses as of December 31, 2021 were comprised of $345.1 million and $532.2 million of gross unrealized gains and losses, respectively. As of December 31, 2022, the $26.7 billion AFS debt securities portfolio had unrealized losses of $351.6 million, $288.1 million, and $157.6 million related to government sponsored agency, other asset-backed, and sub-sovereign, supranational and non-U.S. agency bonds, respectively, which are primarily attributable to changes in market interest rates and credit spreads since their purchase. As of December 31, 2021, the $38.0 billion AFS debt securities portfolio had unrealized losses of $110.2 million related to government-sponsored agency, which are primarily attributable to changes in market interest rates and credit spreads since their purchase. As of December 31, 2022, the $25.0 billion HTM debt securities portfolio had an unrealized loss of $1.1 billion and $436.1 million related to government sponsored agency and sub-sovereign, supranational and non-U.S. agency bonds, respectively, which are primarily attributable to changes in overall market interest rates and credit spreads since their purchase. As of December 31, 2021, the $23.6 billion HTM debt securities portfolio had an unrealized loss of $106.1 million and $80.0 million related to government-sponsored agency and sub-sovereign, supranational and non-U.S. agency bonds, respectively, which are primarily attributable to changes in overall market interest rates and credit spreads since their purchase. HTM debt securities consist of securities that management intends to, and Northern Trust has the ability to, hold until maturity. During the year ended December 31, 2022, for capital management purposes, the Corporation transferred government sponsored agency and obligation of states and political subdivisions securities that had a fair value of $6.6 billion from the AFS to HTM classification, all of which were transferred in the third quarter of 2022. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Corporation transferred government sponsored agency securities that had a fair value of $6.9 billion from AFS to HTM for capital management purposes, all of which were transferred in the second quarter of 2021. Upon transfer of a debt security from the AFS to HTM classification, the amortized cost is reset to fair value. Any net unrealized gain or loss at the date of transfer will remain in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (AOCI) and be amortized into Net Interest Income over the remaining life of the securities using the effective interest method. The amortization of amounts retained in AOCI will offset the effect on interest income of the amortization of the premium or discount resulting from transferring the securities at fair value. For additional information relating to the securities portfolio, refer to Note 4, “Securities,” provided in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Loans and Leases For additional information relating to the loan and leases portfolio, refer to Note 6, “Loans and Leases,” and Note 8, “Concentrations of Credit Risk” provided in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” The following table presents the remaining maturity of loans and leases by segment and class as of December 31, 2022. TABLE 35: REMAINING MATURITY OF LOANS AND LEASES Note: Non-U.S. loans primarily include short duration exposures related to custodied client investments. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS TABLE 36: INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY OF LOANS AND LEASES Nonaccrual Assets and 90 Days Past Due Loans Nonaccrual assets consist of nonaccrual loans and other real estate owned (OREO). OREO is comprised of commercial and residential properties acquired in partial or total satisfaction of loans. Loans that are delinquent 90 days or more and still accruing interest can fluctuate widely at any reporting period based on the timing of cash collections, renegotiation and renewals. For additional information relating to nonaccrual loans, refer to Note 6, “Loans and Leases,” provided in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table presents nonaccrual assets and loans that were delinquent 90 days or more and still accruing interest at December 31, 2022 and 2021. TABLE 37: NONACCRUAL ASSETS Nonaccrual assets as of December 31, 2022 decreased from December 31, 2021, primarily in commercial real estate due to two upgrades to performing status and one payoff. In addition to the negative impact on Net Interest Income and the risk of credit losses, nonaccrual assets also increase operating costs due to the expense associated with collection efforts. Changes in the level of nonaccrual assets may be indicative of changes in the credit quality of one or more loan classes. Changes in credit quality impact the allowance for credit losses through the resultant adjustment of the allowance evaluated on an individual basis and the quantitative and qualitative factors used in the determination of the allowance evaluated on a collective basis within the allowance for credit losses. Allowance for Credit Losses The Allowance for Credit Losses—which represents management’s best estimate of lifetime expected credit losses related to various portfolios subject to credit risk, off-balance sheet credit exposure, and specific borrower relationships—is determined by management through a disciplined credit review process. Northern Trust measures expected credit losses of financial assets with similar risk characteristics on a collective basis. A financial asset is measured individually if it does not share similar risk characteristics with other financial assets and the related allowance is determined through an individual evaluation. Management’s estimates utilized in establishing an appropriate level of allowance for credit losses are not dependent on any single assumption. In determining an appropriate allowance level, management evaluates numerous variables, many of which are interrelated or dependent on other assumptions and estimates, and takes into consideration past events, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts. The results of the credit reserve estimation methodology are reviewed quarterly by Northern Trust’s Credit Loss Reserve Committee, which receives input from Credit Risk Management, Treasury, Corporate Finance, the Economic Research Department, and each of Northern Trust’s reporting segments. As of December 31, 2022, the Allowance for Credit Losses related to loans and leases, undrawn loan commitments and standby letters of credit, HTM debt securities, and other financial assets, was $144.3 million, $38.5 million, $16.0 million, and $0.8 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2021, the allowance for credit losses related to loans and leases, undrawn loan commitments and standby letters of credit, HTM debt securities, and other financial assets, was $138.4 million, $34.1 million , $11.2 million, and $1.0 million, respectively. For additional information relating to the Allowance for Credit Losses and the changes in the Allowance for Credit Losses during the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 due to charge-offs, recoveries and provisions for credit losses, refer to Note 7, “Allowance for Credit Losses,” provided in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table shows the net recoveries (charge-offs) to average loans and leases by segment and class at December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020. TABLE 38: NET RECOVERIES (CHARGE-OFFS) TO AVERAGE LOANS AND LEASES (1) The ratio reflects a charge-off in the third quarter of 2022 in association with a sale of the last lease remaining in Northern Trust’s lease portfolio. As of December 31, 2022, there were no leases outstanding. Net recoveries (charge-offs) for the following segments were zero and therefore excluded from the above table as the ratio of net recoveries (charge-offs) to average loans and leases is also zero: Other, and Non-U.S. The average loans and leases balances were also not provided in the table for Other and Non-U.S. Total average loans and leases for all loan portfolio categories were $41.0 billion, $37.2 billion, and $33.5 billion for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. As of December 31, 2022, there were no leases outstanding. The SEC requires the disclosure of the Allowance for Credit Losses that is applicable to international operations. The disclosure has been prepared in compliance with this disclosure requirement and is used in determining non-U.S. operating performance. The amounts disclosed should not be construed as being the only amounts that are available for non-U.S. loan charge-offs, since the entire Allowance for Credit Losses assigned to Loans and Leases is available to absorb losses on both U.S. and non-U.S. loans. In addition, these amounts are not intended to be indicative of future charge-off trends. Please refer to Table 39 below for the non-U.S. allowance balances. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table shows the allowance evaluated on an individual and collective basis for the loans and leases portfolio by segment and class at December 31, 2022 and 2021. TABLE 39: ALLOCATION OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES Allowance Related to Credit Exposure Evaluated on an Individual Basis: The allowance is determined through an individual evaluation of loans, leases, and lending-related commitments that have defaulted, generally those with Borrower Ratings of 8 and 9, that is based on expected future cash flows, the value of collateral, and other factors that may impact the borrower’s ability to pay. The allowance evaluated on an individual basis for Loans and Leases increased $0.3 million from $10.1 million at December 31, 2021 to $10.4 million at December 31, 2022, primarily attributable to an increase in outstanding loans in the commercial and institutional portfolio, partially offset by a decrease in outstanding loans in the commercial real estate portfolio. Allowance Related to Credit Exposure Evaluated on a Collective Basis: Expected credit losses are measured on a collective basis as long as the financial assets included in the respective pool share similar risk characteristics. If financial assets are deemed to not share similar risk characteristics, an individual assessment is warranted. The allowance evaluated on a collective basis for Loans and Leases increased $10.0 million to $172.4 million at December 31, 2022, compared with $162.4 million at December 31, 2021, primarily due to an increase in the reserve evaluated on a collective basis, which relates to pooled financial assets sharing similar risk characteristics. The increase was driven by weaker macroeconomic conditions and portfolio growth, partially offset by improvements in credit quality. The increase in the collective basis reserve was primarily reflected in the commercial real estate and commercial and institutional portfolios . Overall Allowance: The evaluation of the reserve evaluated on an individual and collective basis resulted in a total Allowance for Credit Losses of $200.9 million at December 31, 2022, compared with $184.7 million at the end of 2021. The allowance of $144.3 million assigned to Loans and Leases, as a percentage of total Loans and Leases, was 0.34% at December 31, 2022, which increased from a $138.4 million allowance assigned to Loans and Leases, representing 0.34% of total Loans and Leases at December 31, 2021. Allowances assigned to undrawn loan commitments and standby letters of MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS credit totaled $38.5 million and $34.1 million at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, and are included in Other Liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures in 2022 included continued investments to enhance Northern Trust’s software and hardware capabilities, as well as renovation and relocation projects to reduce our real estate footprint and modernize our existing offices for new ways of working. Capital expenditures for 2022 totaled $723.5 million, of which $594.9 million was for software, $84.0 million was for computer hardware, $35.5 million was for building and leasehold improvements, and $9.1 million was for furnishings. These capital expenditures principally support, enhance, and protect Northern Trust’s investment management, asset servicing and wealth management systems and capabilities, with focus on delivering innovative solutions to better serve our clients. Additional capital expenditures committed for technology platforms will result in future expense for the depreciation of hardware and amortization of software. Software amortization and depreciation on computer hardware are charged to Equipment and Software expense. Depreciation on building and leasehold improvements and on furnishings is charged to Occupancy expense and equipment expense, respectively. Capital expenditures for 2021 totaled $515.1 million, of which $419.6 million was for software, $52.6 million was for computer hardware, $40.2 million was for building and leasehold improvements, and $2.7 million was for furnishings. Deposits The following table provides the scheduled maturity of total time deposits in denominations of $250,000 or greater at December 31, 2022. For additional information, refer to Note 12, “Deposits,” provided in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” TABLE 40: REMAINING MATURITY OF TIME DEPOSITS $250,000 OR MORE Deposits not insured by the FDIC as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 totaled $116.1 billion and $150.3 billion, respectively. These deposit amounts are derived by adding estimated domestic office uninsured deposits as allowed by Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council instructions to all foreign office deposits. Estimated uninsured domestic office deposits are determined by calculating and totaling the deposits in excess of the deposit insurance limit on an individual account basis. Short-Term Borrowings Securities purchased under agreements to resell and securities sold under agreements to repurchase are accounted for as collateralized financings and recorded at the amounts at which the securities were acquired or sold plus accrued interest. To minimize any potential credit risk associated with these transactions, the fair value of the securities purchased or sold is monitored, limits are set on exposure with counterparties, and the financial condition of counterparties is regularly assessed. It is Northern Trust’s policy to take possession, either directly or via third-party custodians, of securities purchased under agreements to resell. Securities sold under agreements to repurchase are either directly held by, or pledged to the counterparty until the repurchase. Northern Trust nets securities sold under repurchase agreements against those purchased under resale agreements when the requirements to net are met. See Note 5, “Securities Purchased Under Agreements to Resell and Securities Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase,” Note 25, “Commitments and Contingent Liabilities” and Note 27, “Offsetting of Assets and Liabilities” provided in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional information on our repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Geographic Area Information Northern Trust’s non-U.S. activities are primarily related to its asset servicing, asset management, foreign exchange, cash management, and commercial banking businesses. The operations of Northern Trust are managed on a reporting segment basis and include components of both U.S and non-U.S. source assets. Non-U.S. source assets are not separately identified in Northern Trust’s internal management reporting system. However, Northern Trust is required to disclose non-U.S. activities based on the domicile of the customer. Due to the complex and integrated nature of Northern Trust’s activities, it is difficult to segregate with precision assets between U.S. and non-U.S.-domiciled customers. Therefore, certain subjective estimates and assumptions have been made to allocate assets between U.S. and non-U.S. operations. The following tables present selected average assets and liabilities attributable to non-U.S. operations (based on the obligor’s domicile) and the percent of those balances to total consolidated average assets. For additional information refer to Note 31, “Reporting Segments and Related Information,” provided in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” TABLE 41: SELECTED AVERAGE ASSETS AND LIABILITIES ATTRIBUTABLE TO NON-U.S. OPERATIONS Non-U.S. Outstandings As used in this discussion, non-U.S. outstandings are cross-border outstandings as defined by the SEC. They consist of loans, securities, interest-bearing deposits with financial institutions, accrued interest and other monetary assets. Not included are letters of credit, loan commitments, and non-U.S. office local currency claims on residents. Non-U.S. outstandings related to a country are net of guarantees given by third parties resident outside the country and the value of tangible, liquid collateral realizable outside the country. However, transactions with branches of non-U.S. banks are included in these outstandings and are classified according to the country location of the non-U.S. bank’s head office. Short-term interbank time deposits with non-U.S. banks represent the largest category of non-U.S. outstandings. Northern Trust actively participates in the interbank market with U.S. and non-U.S. banks. Northern Trust places deposits with non-U.S. counterparties that have strong internal (Northern Trust) risk ratings and external credit ratings. These non-U.S. banks are approved and monitored by Northern Trust’s Capital Markets Credit Committee, which has credit authority for exposure to all non-U.S. banks and approves credit limits. This process includes financial analysis of the non-U.S. banks, use of an internal risk rating system and consideration of external market indicators. Each counterparty is reviewed at least annually and potentially more frequently based on credit fundamentals or general market conditions. Separate from the entity-specific review process, the average life to maturity of deposits with non-U.S. banks is deliberately maintained on a short-term basis in order to respond quickly to changing credit conditions. Northern Trust also utilizes certain risk mitigation tools and agreements that may reduce exposures through use of collateral and/or balance sheet netting. Additionally, the Capital Markets Credit Committee oversees country-risk analyses and imposes limits on country exposure. For additional information refer to Note 31, “Reporting Segments and Related Information,” provided in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS The following discusses the statement of cash flow activities for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020. TABLE 42: CASH FLOW ACTIVITY SUMMARY Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $2.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022 was primarily attributable to period earnings, lower net collateral deposited with derivative counterparties, and the impact of higher non-cash charges such as depreciation and amortization, partially offset by the impact of other operating activities, net. For the year ended December 31, 2021, net cash provided by operating activities of $1.4 billion primarily reflected period earnings and the impact of higher non-cash charges such as depreciation and amortization, partially offset by higher net collateral deposited with derivative counterparties and in receivables. Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities of $25.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022 was primarily attributable to lower levels of deposits with the Federal Reserve and other central banks and net proceeds from held to maturity debt securities, partially offset by higher levels of loans. For the year ended December 31, 2021, net cash used in investing activities of $18.6 billion primarily reflected higher levels of deposits with the Federal Reserve and other central banks, higher levels of loans and leases and net purchases of AFS debt securities, partially offset by lower levels of interest-bearing deposits with banks. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities of $26.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022 was primarily attributable to decreased levels of total deposits, partially offset by higher short-term other borrowings, proceeds from the issuance of 4.00% senior notes and 6.125% subordinated notes, and higher federal funds purchased. The decrease in total deposits was primarily attributable to lower levels of non-U.S. office noninterest-bearing deposits, non-U.S. office interest-bearing deposits, and demand and other noninterest-bearing deposits. For the year ended December 31, 2021, net cash provided by financing activities of $16.1 billion primarily reflected higher levels of total deposits and securities sold under agreements to repurchase, partially offset by dividends paid on common stock, repayment of the 3.375% senior notes previously issued by the Corporation that matured in August 2021, lower short-term other borrowings, and the repayment of floating rate capital debt. The increase in total deposits was primarily attributable to higher levels of savings, money market and other interest-bearing deposits, non-U.S. interest-bearing deposits, and demand and other noninterest-bearing deposits. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT One of Northern Trust’s primary objectives is to maintain a strong capital position to merit the confidence of clients, counterparties, creditors, regulators and stockholders. A strong capital position helps Northern Trust execute its strategies and withstand unforeseen adverse developments. Senior management, with oversight from the Capital Governance Committee of the Board of Directors and the full Board of Directors, is responsible for capital management and planning. Northern Trust manages its capital on both a total Corporation basis and a legal entity basis. The Capital Committee is responsible for measuring and managing capital metrics against levels set forth within the Capital Policy approved by the Capital Governance Committee of the Board of Directors. In establishing the metrics related to capital, a variety of factors are taken into consideration, including the unique risk profiles of Northern Trust’s businesses, regulatory requirements, capital levels relative to peers, economic and market forecasts, and the impact on credit ratings. Capital levels declined in 2022 as average stockholders’ equity decreased $615.6 million, or 5%, to $11.1 billion. Total stockholders’ equity was $11.3 billion at December 31, 2022, as compared to $12.0 billion at December 31, 2021. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Preferred dividends totaling $41.8 million were declared in 2022. During 2022, the Corporation increased its quarterly common stock dividend to $0.75 per common share. Common dividends totaling $613.0 million were declared in 2022. During the year ended December 31, 2022, the Corporation repurchased 311,536 shares of common stock, all of which were shares withheld to satisfy tax withholding obligations related to share-based compensation, at an average price per share of $113.70. In accordance with Basel III requirements, capital ratios are calculated using both the standardized and advanced approaches. As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the lower of each capital ratio calculated under the standardized approach and the advanced approach serves as the effective ratio for purposes of determining capital adequacy. The following table provides a reconciliation of the Corporation’s common stockholders’ equity to total risk-based capital and its risk-based capital ratios, under the applicable U.S. regulatory rules as of December 31, 2022 and 2021. TABLE 43: CAPITAL ADEQUACY (1) Risk-weighted assets exclude, as applicable under each regulatory approach, amounts primarily related to goodwill, certain other intangible assets, and net unrealized gains or losses on securities and reflect adjustments for excess allowances for credit losses that have been excluded from Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital, if any. (2) Adjusted average fourth quarter assets exclude amounts primarily related to goodwill, other intangible assets, and net unrealized gains or losses on securities. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, the Corporation’s capital ratios exceeded the requirements for classification as “well-capitalized” under applicable U.S. regulatory requirements. The results of the 2022 Dodd-Frank Act Stress Test, published by the Federal Reserve Board on June 23, 2022, resulted in Northern Trust’s stress capital buffer and effective Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio minimum requirement remaining constant at 2.5% and 7.0%, respectively, for the 2022 Capital Plan cycle, which began on October 1, 2022. Further information regarding the Corporation’s and the Bank’s capital ratios and the minimum requirements for classification as “well-capitalized” is provided in the “Supervision and Regulation—Capital Adequacy Requirements” section of Item 1, “Business,” and Note 32, “Regulatory Capital Requirements,” provided in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” provided in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” The use of estimates and assumptions is required in the preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP and actual results could differ from those estimates. The SEC has issued guidance relating to the disclosure of critical accounting estimates. Critical accounting estimates are those that require management to make subjective or complex judgments about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods. Changes that may be required in the underlying assumptions or estimates in these areas could have a material impact on Northern Trust’s future financial condition and results of operations. For Northern Trust, accounting estimates that are viewed as critical are those relating to the allowance for credit losses and pension plan accounting. Management has discussed the development and selection of each critical accounting estimate with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors (Audit Committee). Allowance for Credit Losses The Allowance for Credit Losses — which represents management’s estimate of lifetime expected credit losses related to various portfolios subject to credit risk, off-balance sheet credit exposure, and specific borrower relationships — is determined by management through a disciplined credit review process. Northern Trust measures expected credit losses of financial assets with similar risk characteristics on a collective basis. A financial asset is measured individually if it does not share similar risk characteristics with other financial assets and the related allowance is determined through an individual evaluation. Management’s estimates utilized in establishing an appropriate level of Allowance for Credit Losses are not dependent on any single assumption. In determining an appropriate allowance level, management evaluates numerous variables, many of which are interrelated or dependent on other assumptions and estimates, and takes into consideration past events, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts. Due to the inherent imprecision in accounting estimates, other estimates or assumptions could reasonably have been used in 2022 and changes in estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. The Allowance for Credit Losses consists of the following components: Evaluated on a Collective Basis. Expected credit losses are measured on a collective basis as long as the financial assets included in the respective pool share similar risk characteristics. If financial assets are deemed to not share similar risk characteristics, an individual assessment is warranted. The allowance estimation methodology for the collective assessment is based on data representative of the Corporation’s financial asset portfolio from a historical observation period that includes both expansionary and recessionary periods. The estimation methodology and the related qualitative adjustment framework segregate the loan portfolio into segments based on loan and obligor-specific factors, including loan type, borrower type, collateral type, loan size, and borrower credit quality. For each segment, the probability of default and loss given default are derived for each quarter of the remaining life of each instrument. For the first two years (the reasonable and supportable period), these factors are derived by applying quarterly macroeconomic projections using models developed from historical data on macroeconomic factors and loans with similar factors. For periods beyond the reasonable and supportable period, Northern Trust reverts to its long-run historical loss experiences on a straight-line basis over four quarters. The projected exposure at default for every quarter is based on contractual balance projections as of each quarter-end, with adjustments made for potential draws on off-balance sheet commitments. For each of the different parameters, specific credit models for the individual loan segments were developed. For each segment, the probability of default and the loss given default are applied to the exposure at default for each projected quarter to determine the quantitative component of the allowance. The quantitative allowance is then reviewed within the qualitative adjustment framework, through which management applies judgment by assessing internal risk factors, potential limitations in the quantitative methodology, and environmental factors that are not fully contemplated in the forecast to compute adjustments to the quantitative allowance that may impact individual or multiple segments of the loan portfolio. ASC 326-20-30 requires the use of projected macroeconomic factors. The Corporation uses multiple forecasts approved by Northern Trust’s Macroeconomic Scenario Development Committee (MSDC). The baseline forecast aligns with the Corporation’s latest thinking on macroeconomic projections for the next eight quarters. An alternative scenario is also considered, which reflects a recession that incorporates the experiences of a wider set of historical economic cycles. The forecasts are weighted at each evaluation period and are management’s best estimate of future economic projections at that time. The allowance estimate is sensitive to changes in portfolio composition, portfolio quality, and macroeconomic forecasts. Increases in the amount of borrowing and material downgrades to the quality of the lending portfolio will increase the reserve, all else equal. Similarly, deteriorating projections for macroeconomic conditions will increase the reserve. Macroeconomic factors that are particularly correlated to Northern Trust’s loan portfolio are equity market values, MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS market volatility, corporate profits, residential and commercial real estate price indices, unemployment, and disposable income. To demonstrate the sensitivity to changes in macroeconomic conditions, Northern Trust applied a 100% probability weighting to downturn conditions, resulting in an increase to the collective component of the allowance for the loan portfolio of approximately $72.6 million. The investment security and other financial assets portfolios are less sensitive to macroeconomic factors in terms of overall reserve impact due to factors such as high credit quality, short duration, and low historical losses. The commercial and institutional (C&I) portfolio utilizes Northern Trust’s internal borrower rating assessments to determine initial credit quality. A sensitivity analysis was performed to determine the impact of upgrades or downgrades by shifting the rating up or down by one rating class, assuming no changes to other factors, such as macroeconomic projections or qualitative adjustments. The analysis excludes defaulted loans and does not assume a default event; hence, borrowers at the lowest non-default rating were not downgraded. Similarly, those at the highest rating could not be upgraded. Assuming the final forecast probability weighting, the collective component of the allowance assigned to the C&I portfolio would increase by approximately $93.0 million if all C&I borrowers were downgraded by one performing rating class. The C&I collective allowance would decrease by approximately $35.4 million if borrower ratings were upgraded by one rating class (if possible). The results of the credit reserve estimation methodology are reviewed quarterly by Northern Trust’s Credit Loss Reserve Committee, which receives input from Credit Risk Management, Treasury, Corporate Finance, the Economic Research group, and each of Northern Trust’s business units. The Credit Loss Reserve Committee determines the probability weights applied to each forecast approved by MSDC, and also reviews and approves qualitative adjustments to the collective allowance in line with Northern Trust’s qualitative adjustment framework. Evaluated on an Individual Basis. The allowance is determined through an individual evaluation of financial assets that have defaulted that is based on expected future cash flows, the value of collateral, and other factors that may impact the borrower’s ability to pay. For defaulted loans for which the amount of allowance, if any, is determined based on the value of the underlying real estate collateral, third-party appraisals are typically obtained and utilized by management. These appraisals are generally less than twelve months old and are subject to adjustments to reflect management’s judgment as to the realizable value of the collateral. Analysis and Controls. The quarterly analysis of the individual and collective allowance components and the control process maintained by Credit Risk Management and the lending staff are the principal methods relied upon by management for the timely identification and estimation of individual expected credit losses. In addition to Northern Trust’s own experience, management also considers regulatory guidance. Control processes and analyses employed to determine an appropriate level of allowance for credit losses are reviewed at least annually and modified as considered appropriate. Management believes that the Allowance for Credit Losses adequately considers these uncertainties and has been established at an appropriate level. Actual losses may vary from current estimates and the amount of the provision for credit losses may be greater or less than actual net charge-offs in any particular period. Pension Plan Accounting Northern Trust maintains a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan covering substantially all U.S. employees (U.S. Qualified Plan) and a U.S. noncontributory supplemental pension plan (U.S. Non-Qualified Plan). Certain European-based employees also retain benefits in local defined benefit pension plans, of which the majority are closed to new employees and to future benefit accruals. Measuring cost and reporting liabilities resulting from defined benefit pension plans requires the use of several assumptions regarding future interest rates, asset returns, compensation increases, mortality rates, and other actuarial-based projections relating to the plans. Due to the long-term nature of this obligation and the estimates that are required to be made, the assumptions used in determining the periodic pension expense and the projected benefit obligation are closely monitored and reviewed annually for adjustments that may be required. Pension accounting guidance requires that differences between estimates and actual experience be recognized as other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur. The differences are amortized into net periodic pension expense from accumulated other comprehensive income over the average remaining service period of eligible participants. As a result, differences between the estimates made in the calculation of periodic pension expense and the projected benefit obligation and actual experience affect stockholders’ equity in the period in which they occur but continue to be recognized as expense systematically and gradually over subsequent periods. Northern Trust recognizes the significant impact that these pension-related assumptions have on the determination of the pension obligations and related expense and has established procedures for monitoring and setting these assumptions each year. These procedures include an annual review of actual demographic and investment experience with the pension plans’ actuaries. In addition to actual experience, adjustments to these assumptions consider observable yields on fixed income securities, known compensation trends and policies, as well as economic conditions and investment strategies that may impact the estimated long-term rate of return on plan assets. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS In determining the pension expense for the U.S. Qualified Plan in 2022, Northern Trust utilized a discount rate of 3.03% as of December 31, 2021, 4.81% as of June 30, 2022, and 5.49% as of September 30, 2022. The application of settlement accounting in 2022 required interim re-measurements of the U.S. Qualified Plan throughout 2022. The discount rate utilized for the U.S. Non-Qualified Plan as of December 31, 2021 was 2.80%. For both plans, the rate of increase in the compensation level is based on a graded schedule from 9.00% to 2.50% that averaged 4.97%. The expected long-term rate of return on U.S. Qualified Plan assets was 5.25% as of December 31, 2021, 6.00% as of June 30, 2022, and 6.50% as of September 30, 2022. In evaluating possible revisions to pension-related assumptions for the U.S. pension plans as of Northern Trust’s December 31, 2022 measurement date, the following were considered: • Discount Rate: Northern Trust estimates the discount rate for its U.S. pension plans by applying the plan specific projected cash flows for future benefit payments for each plan to the Aon AA Above Median yield curve as of the measurement date. This yield curve is composed of individual zero-coupon interest rates for 198 different time periods over a 99-year time horizon. Zero-coupon rates utilized by the yield curve are mathematically derived from observable market yields for AA-rated corporate bonds. This yield curve model referenced by Northern Trust in establishing the discount rate resulted in a rate of 5.22% and 5.15% at December 31, 2022 for the U.S. Qualified and U.S. Non-Qualified Plans, respectively. • Compensation Level: Based on a review of actual and anticipated salary experience, the compensation scale assumption is based on a graded schedule from 9.00% to 2.50% that averages 5.56%. • Rate of Return on Plan Assets: The expected return on plan assets is based on an estimate of the long-term (30 years) rate of return on plan assets, which is determined using a building block approach that considers the current asset mix and estimates of return by asset class based on historical experience, giving proper consideration to diversification and rebalancing. Current market factors such as inflation and interest rates are also evaluated before long-term capital market assumptions are determined. Peer data and historical returns are reviewed to check for reasonability and appropriateness. As a result of these analyses, Northern Trust’s rate of return assumption for the U.S. Qualified Plan is 7.25% for 2023. The increase in the expected rate of return from 5.25% as of January 1, 2022, to 7.25% as of January 1, 2023, is primarily due to the increased interest rate environment and the associated impact on fixed income securities returns as well as to the change in the target asset allocation to allow for a greater component of return seeking investments as of the beginning of 2023. • Mortality Table: Northern Trust had adopted the aggregate Pri-2012 mortality table with a 2012 base year, which was released by the Society of Actuaries in October 2019. Northern Trust’s pension obligations reflect proposed future improvement under scale MP-2021, which was released by the Society of Actuaries in October 2021. No change to these assumptions was made in 2022 since the Society of Actuaries did not release any updates to its mortality tables and improvement scales in 2022. Mortality assumptions on lump sum payments remain static and continue to be in line with the IRS prescribed table for minimum lump sums in 2023. Excluding any pension settlement charges, net pension expense in 2023 is expected to decrease by approximately $20.9 million, primarily driven by increased interest rates and expected rate of return on plan assets as well as lower loss amortization due to the 2021 and 2022 settlement recognition. In order to illustrate the sensitivity of these assumptions on the expected U.S pension plans’ periodic pension expense in 2023 and the projected benefit obligation as of December 31, 2022, the following table is presented to show the effect of increasing or decreasing each of these assumptions by 25 basis points. TABLE 44: SENSITIVITY OF U.S. PENSION PLANS ASSUMPTIONS Pension Contributions. The deduction limits specified by the Internal Revenue Code for contributions made by sponsors of defined benefit pension plans are based on a “Target Liability” under the provisions of the Pension Protection Act of MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2006. There were no contributions to the U.S. Qualified Plan for the 2022 plan year. The minimum required contribution to the U.S. Qualified Plan is expected to be zero in 2023. The maximum deductible contribution is estimated at $561.0 million for 2023. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires certain assets and liabilities to be reported at fair value. As of December 31, 2022, approximately 18% of Northern Trust’s total assets and 1% of total liabilities were carried on the consolidated balance sheets at fair value. As of December 31, 2021, approximately 21% of Northern Trust’s total assets and less than 1% of total liabilities were carried on the consolidated balance sheets at fair value. As discussed more fully in Note 3, “Fair Value Measurements,” provided in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” GAAP requires entities to categorize financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value according to a three-level valuation hierarchy. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted, active market prices for identical assets and liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to valuation techniques that require significant management judgment because one or more of the significant inputs are unobservable in the market place (Level 3). Approximately 10% and 6% of Northern Trust’s assets carried at fair value are classified as Level 1 as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Northern Trust typically does not hold equity securities or other instruments that are actively traded on an exchange. As of December 31, 2022, approximately 90% of Northern Trust’s assets and 100% of its liabilities carried at fair value are categorized as Level 2, as they are valued using models in which all significant inputs are observable in active markets. Investment debt securities classified as AFS make up 96% of Level 2 assets with the remaining 4% primarily consisting of derivative financial instruments. Level 2 liabilities are comprised solely of derivative financial instruments. As of December 31, 2021, approximately 94% of Northern Trust’s assets and 96% of its liabilities carried at fair value are categorized as Level 2, as they are valued using models in which all significant inputs are observable in active markets. Investment debt securities classified as AFS make up 98% of Level 2 assets with the remaining 2% primarily consisting of derivative financial instruments. Level 2 liabilities are comprised solely of derivative financial instruments. Northern Trust’s Level 2 assets include AFS and certain trading account debt securities, the fair values of which are determined predominantly by external pricing vendors. Northern Trust has a well-established process to validate prices received from pricing vendors as discussed more fully in Note 3, “Fair Value Measurements,” provided in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, all derivative assets and liabilities, excluding the swap related to the sale of certain Visa Class B common shares described below, were classified as Level 2 and approximately 97% and 96%, respectively, were measured on a notional value basis, related to client-related and trading activities, predominantly consisting of foreign exchange contracts. Derivative instruments are valued internally using widely accepted income-based models that incorporate inputs readily observable in actively quoted markets and reflect contractual terms of contracts. Northern Trust evaluated the impact of counterparty credit risk and its own credit risk on the valuation of derivative instruments. Factors considered included the likelihood of default by Northern Trust and its counterparties, the remaining maturities of the instruments, net exposures after giving effect to master netting agreements, available collateral, and other credit enhancements in determining the appropriate fair value of derivative instruments. The resulting valuation adjustments are not considered material. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, Northern Trust’s Level 3 liabilities consisted of swaps that Northern Trust entered into with the purchaser of 1.1 million and 1.0 million shares of Visa Inc. Class B common stock (Visa Class B common shares) previously held by Northern Trust and sold in June 2016 and 2015, respectively. Pursuant to the swaps, Northern Trust retains the risks associated with the ultimate conversion of the Visa Class B common shares into shares of Visa Inc. Class A common stock (Visa Class A common shares), such that the counterparty will be compensated for any dilutive adjustments to the conversion ratio and Northern Trust will be compensated for any anti-dilutive adjustments to the ratio. The swaps also require periodic payments from Northern Trust to the counterparty calculated by reference to the market price of Visa Class A common shares and a fixed rate of interest. The fair value of the swaps are determined using a discounted cash flow methodology. The significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement are Northern Trust’s own assumptions about estimated changes in the conversion rate of the Visa Class B common shares into Visa Class A common shares, the date on which such conversion is expected to occur and the estimated growth rate of the Visa Class A common share price. See “Visa Class B Common Shares” under Note 25, “Commitments and Contingent Liabilities,” provided in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for further information. Northern Trust believes its valuation methods for its assets and liabilities carried at fair value are appropriate; however, the use of different methodologies or assumptions, particularly as applied to Level 3 assets, could have a material effect on the computation of their estimated fair values. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS AND DEVELOPMENTS In March 2022, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU No. 2022-01, “Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Fair Value Hedging—Portfolio Layer Method” (ASU 2022-01). The amendments in ASU 2022-01 expand the current last-of-layer hedging model from a single-layer method to allow multiple hedged layers of a single closed portfolio. To reflect that expansion, the last-of-layer method is renamed the portfolio layer method. In addition, ASU 2022-01 (1) expands the scope of the portfolio layer method to include non-prepayable assets, (2) specifies eligible hedging instruments in a single-layer hedge, (3) provides additional guidance on the accounting for and disclosure of hedge basis adjustments under the portfolio layer method and (4) specifies how hedge basis adjustments should be considered when determining credit losses for the assets included in the closed portfolio. ASU 2022-01 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2022, although early adoption is permitted. Upon adoption, ASU 2022-01 is not expected to have a significant impact on Northern Trust’s consolidated balance sheets or consolidated statements of income. In March 2022, the FASB issued ASU No. 2022-02, “Financial Instruments—Credit Losses (Topic 326): Troubled Debt Restructurings and Vintage Disclosures” (ASU 2022-02). The amendments in ASU 2022-02 eliminate the accounting guidance for troubled debt restructurings (TDRs) for creditors that have adopted CECL while enhancing disclosure requirements for certain loan refinancings and restructurings made to borrowers experiencing financial difficulty. In addition, ASU 2022-02 requires that a public business entity disclose current-period gross write-offs by year of origination for financing receivables and net investment in leases. ASU 2022-02 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2022, although early adoption is permitted. Upon adoption, ASU 2022-02 is not expected to have a significant impact on Northern Trust’s consolidated balance sheets or consolidated statements of income. In June 2022, the FASB issued ASU No. 2022-03, “Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Fair Value Measurement of Equity Securities Subject to Contractual Sale Restrictions” (ASU 2022-03). The amendments in ASU 2022-03 clarify that a contractual restriction on the sale of an equity security is not considered part of the unit of account of the equity security and, therefore, is not considered in measuring fair value. ASU 2022-03 also clarifies that an entity cannot, as a separate unit of account, recognize and measure a contractual sale restriction. In addition, ASU 2022-03 introduces new disclosure requirements to provide investors with information about contractual sale restrictions including the nature and remaining duration of these restrictions. ASU 2022-03 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2023, although early adoption is permitted. Upon adoption, ASU 2022-03 is not expected to have a significant impact on Northern Trust’s consolidated balance sheets or consolidated statements of income. In September 2022, the FASB issued ASU No. 2022-04, “Liabilities—Supplier Finance Programs (Topic 405-50): Disclosure of Supplier Finance Program Obligations” (ASU 2022-04). The amendments in ASU 2022-04 enhance the transparency about the use of supplier finance programs for investors or other allocators of capital. Specifically, ASU 2022-04 requires that a buyer in a supplier finance program disclose sufficient qualitative and quantitative information about the program to allow a user of financial statements to understand the program’s nature, activity during the period, changes from period to period, and potential magnitude. ASU 2022-04 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2022, except for the amendment requiring disclosure of roll forward information, which is effective beginning after December 15, 2023. Early adoption is permitted. Upon adoption, ASU 2022-04 is not expected to have a significant impact on Northern Trust’s consolidated balance sheets or consolidated statements of income. RISK MANAGEMENT Risk Management Overview Northern Trust employs an integrated risk management framework to enable a risk informed profile and support its business decisions and the execution of its corporate strategies. The framework provides a methodology to identify, manage, report and govern both internal and external risks to Northern Trust, and promotes a culture of risk awareness and good conduct across the organization. Northern Trust’s risk culture encompasses the general awareness, attitude and conduct of employees with respect to risk and the management of risk across all lines of defense within the organization. Northern Trust cultivates a culture of effective risk management by defining and embedding risk management accountabilities in all employee performance expectations and provides training, development and performance rewards to reinforce this culture. Northern Trust’s risk management framework contains three inter-related elements, designed to support consistent enterprise risk identification, management and reporting: a comprehensive risk inventory, a static taxonomy of risk categories and a dynamic taxonomy of risk themes. The risk inventory is a detailed register of the risks inherently faced by Northern Trust. The risk categories and risk themes are classification systems used for classifying and managing the risk inventory and enabling different risk profile views. All identified risks inherent in Northern Trust’s business activities are MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS cataloged into the following risk categories: credit, operational, fiduciary, compliance, liquidity, market, and strategic risk. All material risks are also dynamically cataloged into various risk themes which are defined groupings that share common characteristics, focus on business outcomes and span across risk categories. Northern Trust implements its risk management framework through a “three lines of defense” operating model, embedding a robust risk management capability within its businesses. The model, used to communicate risk management expectations across the organization, contains three roles, each with a complementary level of risk management accountability. Within this operating model, Northern Trust’s businesses are the first line of defense for protecting it against the risks inherent in its businesses and are supported by dedicated business risk management teams. The Risk Management function, the second line of defense, sets the direction for Northern Trust’s risk management activities and provides aggregate risk oversight and reporting in support of risk governance. Audit Services, the third line of defense, provides independent assurance as to the effectiveness of the integrated risk framework. Risk Governance and Oversight Overview Risk governance is an integral aspect of corporate governance at Northern Trust, and includes clearly defined accountabilities, expectations, internal controls and processes for risk-based decision-making and escalation of issues. The following diagram provides a high-level overview of Northern Trust’s risk governance structure, highlighting oversight by the Board of Directors and key risk-related committees. TABLE 45: RISK GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE The Board of Directors provides oversight of risk management directly and through certain of its committees: the Audit Committee, the Business Risk Committee, the Capital Governance Committee and the Human Capital and Compensation Committee. The Board of Directors annually approves Northern Trust’s Risk Management Framework and Corporate Risk Appetite Statement. The Audit Committee provides oversight with respect to financial reporting and legal risk. The Business Risk Committee assumes primary responsibility and oversight with respect to the credit risk, operational risk, fiduciary risk, compliance risk, market risk, liquidity risk, strategic risk, and associated risk themes. The Cybersecurity Risk Oversight Subcommittee is a subcommittee of the Business Risk Committee and assists the Business Risk Committee in discharging its duties with respect to risks related to cybersecurity inherent in Northern Trust’s businesses. The Human Capital and Compensation Committee oversees the development and operation of Northern Trust’s incentive compensation program. The Committee annually reviews management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the design and performance of Northern Trust’s incentive compensation arrangements and practices in providing incentives that are consistent with Northern Trust’s safety, soundness, and culture. This assessment includes an evaluation of whether Northern Trust’s incentive compensation arrangements and practices discourage inappropriate risk-taking behavior by participants. The Capital Governance Committee assists the Board of Directors in discharging its oversight duties with respect to capital management and resolution planning activities. Among other responsibilities, the Capital Governance Committee oversees Northern Trust’s capital management assessments, forecasting, and stress testing processes and activities, including the annual CCAR exercise, and challenges management, as appropriate, on various elements of such processes and activities. Accordingly, the Capital Governance Committee provides oversight with respect to Northern Trust’s linkage of material risks to the capital adequacy assessment process. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The Chief Risk Officer (CRO) oversees Northern Trust’s management of risk and compliance, promotes risk awareness and fosters a proactive risk management environment wherein risks inherent in the business strategy are identified, understood, appropriately monitored and mitigated. The CRO reports directly to the Business Risk Committee and the Corporation’s Chief Executive Officer. The CRO regularly advises the Business Risk Committee and reports to the Committee at least quarterly on risk exposures, risk management deficiencies and emerging risks. In accordance with the risk management framework, the CRO, Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer, Head of Financial Risk & Chief Credit Officer, Head of Non-Financial Risk & Chief Operational Risk Officer, Chief Information Risk Officer, Chief Economist & Head of Strategic Risk and Risk Analytics, Chief Administrative Officer, Business Unit and Regional Chief Risk Officers, Chief Financial Officer, Head of Capital Resolution and Management Reporting Planning and Analysis, General Counsel, Chief Human Resources Officer and Head of Corporate Sustainability, Inclusion and Social Impact, meet as the Global Enterprise Risk Committee (GERC) to provide executive management oversight and guidance with respect to the management of the categories of risk and risk themes within Northern Trust. The Chief Audit Executive, or his or her designee, also attends GERC meetings as a non-voting member. Among other risk management responsibilities, GERC receives reports, escalations, or recommendations from senior risk committees that are responsible for the management of risk, and from time to time may delegate responsibility to such committees for risk issues. Senior risk committees include: The Credit Risk Committee (CRC) establishes and monitors credit-related policies and practices throughout Northern Trust and promotes their uniform application. The Market & Liquidity Risk Committee (MLRC) oversees activities relating to the management of market and liquidity risks by facilitating a focused review of market and liquidity risk exposures and providing rigorous challenge of related policies, key assumptions, and practices. The Operational Risk Committee (ORC) provides independent oversight and is responsible for setting the operational risk-related policies and developing and implementing the operational risk management framework and programs that support coordination of operational risk activities. The Fiduciary Risk Committee (FRC) is responsible for establishing and reviewing the fiduciary risk policies and establishing the fiduciary risk framework, governance and programs that support the coordination of fiduciary risk activities. The Compliance & Ethics Oversight Committee (CEOC) provides oversight and direction with respect to compliance policies, implementation of the compliance and ethics program, and the coordination of regulatory compliance initiatives across the Corporation. The Information Technology Risk Committee (ITRC) provides oversight and direction with respect to information security, technology and cyber risk. The committee is responsible for recommending the policies related to, and overseeing development and implementation of the risk management framework, standards and processes supporting coordination and governance of, information security, technology and cyber risk management activities. The Model Risk Oversight Committee (MROC) is responsible for providing management attention, direction, and oversight of the model risk management framework and model risk within Northern Trust. The Workforce Risk Committee (WRC) is responsible for assessing workforce risk and monitoring initiatives associated with workforce risk management. In addition to the aforementioned committees, Northern Trust establishes business and regional risk committees that also report into GERC. Risk Assessment, Appetite and Reporting Processes As part of the integrated risk framework, Northern Trust has established key risk identification and risk management processes, embedded within its businesses to enable a risk-informed profile that supports its business decisions and the execution of its corporate strategies. Northern Trust’s risk assessment process consists of a series of programs across the first and second lines of defense that identify, measure, manage and report risks in line with risk appetite and guidelines. Northern Trust defines its risk appetite as the aggregate level and types of risk the Board of Directors and senior management are willing to assume to achieve the Corporation’s strategic objectives and business plan, consistent with prudent management of risk and applicable capital, liquidity, and other regulatory requirements. It includes consideration MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS of the likelihood and impact of risks, using both monetary loss and non-financial measures across risk themes to monitor against tolerance thresholds and guideline levels that trigger escalation to risk committees, senior management, and the Board of Directors or committees thereof, as appropriate. Risk Control Risk Control is an internal, independent review function within the Risk Management function. Risk Control is managed by the Head of Risk Control and is comprised of Model Risk Management, Credit Review, and Global Compliance Testing groups, each with its own risk focus and oversight. Model Risk Management is responsible for the implementation and management of the enterprise-wide model risk framework and independently validating new models and reviewing and re-validating existing models. Credit Review provides an independent, ongoing assessment of credit exposure and related credit risk management processes across Northern Trust. Lastly, Global Compliance Testing evaluates the effectiveness of procedures and controls designed to comply with relevant laws and regulations, as well as corresponding Northern Trust policies governing regulatory compliance activities. The Business Risk Committee has oversight responsibility with respect to Risk Control generally as well as each of these groups. Audit Services Audit Services is an independent control function that assesses and validates controls within Northern Trust’s risk management framework. Audit Services is managed by the Chief Audit Executive with oversight from the Audit Committee. Audit Services tests the overall adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal controls associated with the framework on an ongoing basis and reports the results of these audits directly to the Audit Committee. Audit Services includes professionals with a broad range of audit and industry experience, including risk management expertise. The Chief Audit Executive reports directly to the Audit Committee and administratively reports to the Corporation’s Chief Executive Officer and is a non-voting member of GERC. Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk to interest income or principal from the failure of a borrower, issuer, or counterparty to perform on an obligation. Credit Risk Overview Credit risk is inherent in many of Northern Trust’s activities. A significant component of credit risk relates to loans, leases, securities, and wholesale counterparty-related exposures, such as over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives and repo-style transactions. Northern Trust’s loan portfolio differs significantly from those of other large U.S. financial institutions in that Northern Trust is generally: • not an originator of loan products intended to be sold into a secondary market or to be bundled into asset securitizations; • not an agent bank or syndicator of loans, where risk management is achieved post-close through the sale of participations; and • not a participant in leveraged financial transactions, such as project finance, private-equity-originated acquisition financing, hedge fund leveraging, or prime brokerage finance activities. Credit Risk Framework and Governance The CRC is the most senior credit committee at Northern Trust, with responsibility for establishing, approving, and monitoring credit-related policies and programs throughout the Bank. The Chief Credit Officer reports directly to the CRO, chairs the CRC, and heads the Credit Risk Management function at Northern Trust. The Credit Risk Management function is the focal point of the credit risk framework and, while independent of the business units that manage client relationships, it works closely with them to achieve the goal of assuring proactive management of credit risk. To monitor and control credit risk, the Credit Risk Management function maintains a framework that consists of policies, standards, and programs designed to promote a prudent credit culture and monitors adherence to those internal policies, standards, and programs, as well as external regulations. Independent oversight and review of the credit risk framework also is provided by Risk Control. The credit risk framework stipulates authority levels for approval of the extension of credit. Individual credit authority for commercial and personal loans is limited to specified amounts and maturities. Credit requests exceeding policies or standards because of amount, maturity, rating, or other conditions, are referred to the relevant Group Credit Approval Committee. Credit decisions involving requests in excess of Group Credit Approval Committee limits require the approval of the Senior Credit Committee. The Capital Markets Credit Committee has sole authority for the approval, modification, or renewal of credit exposure limits to all wholesale market counterparties. The Senior Credit Committee and Capital Markets Credit Committee are both direct sub-committees of the CRC. The Treasury Credit Committee provides similar approval for investments in assets subject to credit risk, such as bonds and equities. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Credit Risk Measurement The credit risk framework covers a number of different measurements of credit risk at Northern Trust, including risk-weighted assets (RWA), the allowance for credit losses, and stress tests using various macroeconomic scenarios, such as the internal capital adequacy approval program and CCAR. An integral component of credit risk measurement is Northern Trust’s internal risk rating system. Northern Trust’s internal risk rating system enables identification, measurement, approval and monitoring of the Corporation’s credit risk. Calculations include entity-specific information about the obligor’s or counterparty’s probability of default (PD) and exposure-specific information about loss given default (LGD), exposure at default (EAD), and maturity. Northern Trust’s internal risk rating system is intended to rank its credit risk without any direct linkage to external credit ratings. Obligors are assigned PDs after consideration of both quantitative and qualitative factors. Although the criteria vary, the objective is for assigned PDs to be consistent in the measurement and ranking of risk. LGD and EAD are assigned based on obligor, product, collateral and instrument characteristics. Risk ratings are assigned at the time a counterparty or an obligation is approved, renewed, or amended. Risk ratings are reviewed annually or when new information relevant to the rating is received. Risk ratings are utilized for credit underwriting, management reporting, and the calculation of regulatory capital. The Credit Risk Management function is responsible for the ongoing oversight of each model that supports the internal risk-rating system. Independent model governance and oversight is further supported by the activities of Risk Control. Loans and Other Extensions of Credit A significant component of credit risk relates to the loan portfolio, including contractual obligations such as legally binding commitments to extend credit, commercial letters of credit, and standby letters of credit. These contractual obligations and arrangements are discussed in Note 25, “Commitments and Contingent Liabilities,” provided in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Undrawn commitments to extend credit generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses. Since a significant portion of the commitments are expected to expire without being drawn upon, the total commitment amount does not necessarily represent future loans or liquidity requirements. The following table provides information about the industry sector and expiration dates of undrawn commitments to extend credit as of December 31, 2022 and 2021. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS TABLE 46: UNDRAWN COMMITMENTS TO EXTEND CREDIT BY INDUSTRY SECTOR (1) The commercial and institutional industry sector information is presented on the basis of the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS). As part of Northern Trust’s credit processes, the Credit Risk Management function oversees a range of portfolio reviews that focus on significant and/or weaker-rated credits. This approach allows management to take remedial action in an effort to deal with potential problems. An integral part of the Credit Risk Management function is a formal review of past due and potential problem loans to determine which credits, if any, need to be placed on nonaccrual status or charged off. Northern Trust maintains a loan portfolio “watch list” for adversely classified credit exposures that includes all nonaccrual credits as well as other loans with elevated risk of default. Independent from the Credit Risk Management function, Credit Review undertakes both on-site and off-site file reviews that evaluate the effectiveness of management’s implementation of Credit Risk Management’s requirements. Counterparty Credit Risk Counterparty credit risk for Northern Trust primarily arises from a variety of funding, treasury, trading and custody-related activities, including trading OTC foreign exchange and interest rate derivatives, indemnified securities lending transactions, and sponsored repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions. Credit exposure to counterparties is managed by use of a framework for setting limits by product type and exposure tenor. To calculate exposure, Northern Trust treats repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements, indemnified securities lending, and sponsored repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions as repo-style transactions. Foreign exchange exposures and interest rate derivatives are treated as OTC derivatives. The exposure at default measurement methodology for each eligible type of counterparty credit exposure, including the use of netting and collateral as risk mitigants, is determined based on regulatory requirements. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Credit Risk Mitigation Northern Trust considers cash flow to be the primary source of repayment for client-related credit exposures. However, Northern Trust employs several different types of credit risk mitigants to manage its overall credit risk in the event cash flow is not sufficient to repay a credit exposure. Northern Trust broadly groups its risk mitigation techniques into the following three primary categories. Physical and Financial Collateral: One of Northern Trust’s primary credit risk mitigation approaches is the requirement of collateral. Residential and commercial real estate exposures are typically secured by properly margined mortgages on the property. Various other types of physical and financial collateral are also accepted for certain commercial and personal loans, in line with Northern Trust’s lending standards. In cases where loans to clients are secured by marketable securities, the daily values of the securities are monitored closely to ensure adherence to collateral coverage policies. Netting: On-balance sheet netting is employed where applicable for counterparties with master netting agreements. Netting is primarily related to foreign exchange transactions with major banks and institutional clients subject to eligible master netting agreements. Guarantees: Personal and corporate guarantees are accepted, as warranted, to reduce risk of default, facilitate potential collection efforts, and protect Northern Trust’s claims relative to other creditors. Another important risk management practice is the avoidance of undue concentrations of exposure, such as in any single (or small number of related) obligor/counterparty, loan type, industry, geography, country or risk mitigant. Processes are in place to establish limits on certain concentrations and the monitoring of adherence to the limits. Operational Risk Operational risk is the risk of loss from inadequate or failed internal processes, human factors and systems, or from external events. Operational Risk Overview Operational risk is inherent in each of Northern Trust’s businesses and corporate functions and reflects the potential for inadequate information systems, operating problems, challenges related to reliance on third parties, product design and delivery difficulties, potential legal actions or catastrophes to result in losses. This includes the potential that continuity of service and resilience may be impacted. Operational risk includes information technology and cybersecurity, compliance, fiduciary and legal risks, which under the Corporation’s risk structure are governed and managed explicitly. Operational Risk Framework and Governance To monitor and control operational risk, Northern Trust maintains a framework consisting of risk management policies, programs and practices designed to promote a sound operational environment and maintain the Corporation’s operational risk profile and losses within approved risk appetites and guidelines. The framework implements a structured approach to establishing and communicating operational risk management practices and responsibilities. This structured approach to measuring and managing operational risk addresses operational resilience which requires that Northern Trust minimize service disruptions and limit systemic impacts from adverse events as well as risk quantification. The framework is deployed consistently and globally across all businesses and its objective is to identify and measure the factors that influence risk and drive action to maintain operational resilience and reduce future loss events. The Operational Risk Management function is responsible for defining the operational risk management framework and providing independent oversight of the framework implementation and application across Northern Trust. It is the responsibility of each business to implement the enterprise-wide operational risk framework and business-specific risk management programs to identify, monitor, measure, manage and report on operational risk and mitigate Northern Trust’s exposure to service disruptions and loss. Several key programs support the operational risk framework, including: • Loss Event Data Program - a program that collects internal and external loss data for use in monitoring operational risk exposure, various business analyses and a Basel Advanced Measurement Approach (AMA) capital quantification. • Risk and Control Self-Assessment - a comprehensive, structured risk management process used by Northern Trust’s businesses to identify, measure, monitor and mitigate operational risk exposures throughout the enterprise. • Operational Risk Scenario Analysis - a systematic process of obtaining expert opinions from business managers and risk management experts to derive reasoned assessments of the likelihood of occurrence and the potential loss impact of plausible operational losses. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS • Product and Process Risk Management Program - a program used for evaluating and managing risks associated with the introduction of new and modified noncredit products and services, significant changes to operating processes, and related significant loss events. • Operational Resilience - a program that outlines the business service lifecycle assessment, designed to identify Northern Trust’s most important business services, ensure the continuity business service delivery and promote the ability to prevent, respond to, recover and learn from disruptions. • Third-Party Risk Management Program - a program that provides processes for evaluating, quantifying and qualifying appropriate risk assessment, measurement, monitoring and management of third and fourth parties (inclusive of external and internal, e.g., Northern Trust legal entity to legal entity relationships). • Global Fraud Risk - a program designed to prevent, detect and respond to attempted or actual fraud impacting the bank and its clients globally. • Data Management - a program that embeds data management and data governance related activities into Northern Trust processes in order to manage data risk. • Data Privacy Program - a program that sets forth a consistent, global approach to compliance with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations relating to privacy and establishes overarching principles for the responsible use and protection of confidential information. The Program is designed to guide Northern Trust to more effectively identify, assess, manage and mitigate privacy risks and privacy incidents. • Information Security, Technology, and Cyber Risk Management - a program that sets forth a consistent, global approach to communicate risk management processes and controls addressing information security, including cyber threats, technology, and related compliance risks to the organization. • Operational Resiliency and Recovery Management Program - a program designed to protect life safety, minimize and manage the business impact and support the recovery of critical functions for clients following an incident. • Physical Security - a program that provides for the life safety of Northern Trust partners, clients, and visitors worldwide. • Insurance Management Program - a program designed to reduce the monetary impact of certain operational loss events through the securing of appropriate insurance policy protection. As discussed in “Risk Control” above, Model Risk Management also is part of the operational risk framework. The ORC is responsible for overseeing the activities of Northern Trust related to the management of operational risk including establishing and maintaining the Corporate Operational Risk Policy and approving the operational risk framework and programs. This committee has the expanded role of coordinating operational risk issues related to information technology, cybersecurity, compliance and fiduciary risks. The purpose of this committee is to provide executive management’s insight and guidance to the management of existing and emerging operational risks. This includes identification and assessment of evolving risk trends across the operational risk framework and how these can be best managed. Operational Risk Measurement Northern Trust utilizes the AMA capital quantification process to estimate required capital for the Corporation and applicable U.S. banking subsidiaries. Northern Trust’s AMA capital quantification process incorporates outputs from the Loss Event Data, Risk and Control Self-Assessment and Operational Risk Scenario Analysis programs to derive required capital. Business environment factor information is used to estimate loss frequency. The AMA capital quantification process uses a Loss Distribution Approach methodology to combine frequency and severity distributions to arrive at an estimate of the potential aggregate loss at the 99.9 th percentile of the aggregate loss distribution over a one-year time horizon. Information Security, Technology, and Cyber Risk Management Effective management of risks related to the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information is crucial in an environment of increasing cyber threats and requires a structured approach to establish and communicate expectations and required practices. Northern Trust’s information security, technology, and cyber risk management program provides the overall structure for managing the respective risks in a sustainable manner. The program is supported by the Information Security, Technology, and Cyber Risk Management Policy, which is the highest-level governing document and is approved by the Business Risk Committee. In addition, the program is supported by an organizational structure that reflects support from executive management and includes risk committees comprised of members from across the business, including the Information Technology Risk Committee (ITRC). The ITRC is chaired by the Chief Information Risk Officer, who regularly reports to the Board of Directors and its subcommittees, as appropriate, on the status of the information security, technology, and cyber risk profile. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The governance process, internal controls and risk management practices are designed to keep risk at levels appropriate to Northern Trust’s overall risk appetite and the inherent risk in the markets in which Northern Trust operates. Northern Trust employees are responsible for promoting information security as well as adhering to applicable policies and standards to safeguard electronic information and business systems within their care. In cases where Northern Trust relies on vendors to perform services, controls are routinely reviewed for alignment with industry standards and their ability to protect information. Any findings identified are remediated following a risk-based approach. In addition to the information security controls managed and monitored within the organization, Northern Trust uses external third-party security teams on a regular basis to assess effectiveness. These teams perform program maturity assessments, penetration tests, security assessments and reviews of Northern Trust’s vulnerability to cyber-attacks. Northern Trust also operates a global security operations center for threat identification and response. This center aggregates security threat information from systems and platforms across the business and alerts the organization in accordance with its documented Cybersecurity Incident Response Plan. The Cybersecurity Incident Response Plan is used to respond to cybersecurity incidents. A cybersecurity incident is defined as any event that has a negative effect on the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of Northern Trust’s or its clients’ assets resulting from malicious or intentional actions. These can include, but are not limited to, disruptions of service, denials of service, compromises of information systems, data exfiltration or data corruption. The plan provides a streamlined approach that can be invoked rapidly to address matters that raise enterprise concern and to communicate impact, actions, and status to senior management, including the Chief Information Security Officer, Chief Information Risk Officer, and appropriate stakeholders. The plan is designed to work with enterprise-level response plans, and is reviewed, tested, and updated regularly. Northern Trust’s disclosure procedures and controls also address cybersecurity incidents and include elements to ensure an analysis of potential disclosure obligations arising from any such incidents. Northern Trust maintains compliance programs to address the applicability of restrictions on securities trading while in possession of material, nonpublic information, including instances in which such information may relate to cybersecurity incidents. Northern Trust also maintains a comprehensive Information and Cyber Security Training and Awareness practice providing baseline and targeted education and awareness for employees and contractors. This program includes at least one required annual online training class for all employees and contractors, supplemental refresher training throughout the year, targeted training based on roles and risk levels, multiple simulated phishing and vishing attacks with associated training, the distribution of regular information security awareness materials, and the designation of individuals as Information Security and Privacy champions within the businesses. Operational Resilience and Recovery Management Northern Trust’s operational resilience approach encompasses operational resilience and recovery processes enterprise-wide (including staff, technology and facilities) to anticipate and limit disruptions and to ensure that following a disaster or business interruption Northern Trust is able to resume critical business functions and fulfills all regulatory and legal requirements. Northern Trust’s operational resilience mitigation and preventative measures include sophisticated physical security, resilient designs and peer capacity for its corporate data centers, a highly redundant global network, robust network security, resilience centers that offer alternative workstations and transfer of work and work-from-home programs that provide further capability. All of Northern Trust’s businesses are required to risk-assess all their functions regularly and develop business continuity plans covering resource requirements (people, systems, vendor relationships and other assets), arrangements for obtaining these resources and prioritizing the resumption of each function in compliance with corporate standards. The business continuity programs of all critical third-party vendors to Northern Trust are reviewed on a regular basis. All of Northern Trust’s businesses test their plans at least annually. The ORC annually reviews and presents the corporate business continuity plan to the Business Risk Committee. Fiduciary Risk Fiduciary risks are risks arising from the failure in administering or managing financial and other assets in clients’ fiduciary accounts: i) to adhere to a fiduciary standard of care if required under the terms of governing documents or applicable laws; or ii) to properly discharge fiduciary duties. Fiduciary status may hinge on the nature of a particular function being performed and fiduciary standards may vary by jurisdiction, type of relationship and governing document. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Fiduciary Risk Overview The fiduciary risk management framework identifies, assesses, measures, monitors and reports on fiduciary risk matters deemed significant. Fiduciary risk is mitigated through internal controls and risk management practices that are designed to identify, understand and keep such risk at levels consistent with the organization’s overall risk appetite while also managing the inherent risk in each relationship for which Northern Trust serves in a fiduciary capacity. Each business is responsible for complying with all corporate policies and external regulations and for establishing specific procedures, standards and guidelines to manage fiduciary risk within the desired risk appetite. Fiduciary Risk Framework and Governance The FRC is responsible for overseeing activities related to the exercise of fiduciary powers throughout the organization in clients’ fiduciary accounts, and for establishing and reviewing the fiduciary risk policies and the fiduciary risk framework that supports the coordination of activities to identify, monitor, manage and report on fiduciary risk. In addition, the FRC serves as an escalation point for significant issues raised by its subcommittees or elsewhere in the organization. Compliance Risk Compliance risk is the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, financial loss, or damage to reputation resulting from failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, other regulatory requirements, or codes of conduct and other standards of self-regulatory organizations applicable to Northern Trust. Compliance risk includes the following two subcategories: • Regulatory Risk - risk arising from failure to comply with prudential and conduct of business or other regulatory requirements. • Financial Crime Risk - risk arising from financial crime (e.g., money laundering, sanctions violations, fraud, insider dealing, theft, etc.) in relation to the products, services, or accounts of the institution, its clients, or others associated with the same. Compliance Risk Framework and Governance The compliance risk management framework identifies, assesses, controls, measures, monitors and reports on compliance risk. The framework is designed to minimize compliance risk and maintain an environment in which criminal or regulatory violations do not occur. The framework includes a comprehensive governance structure and a Compliance and Ethics Program approved by the Business Risk Committee. Each business is responsible for the implementation and effectiveness of the Compliance and Ethics Program and specific compliance policies within their respective businesses. Each business is responsible for its respective employees’ compliance with corporate policies and external regulations and for establishing specific procedures, standards and guidelines to manage compliance risk in accordance with Northern Trust’s Compliance and Ethics Program. The CEOC establishes and monitors adherence to Northern Trust’s Compliance and Ethics Program. The Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer reports to the Business Risk Committee, as appropriate, and chairs the CEOC. Liquidity Risk Management Liquidity Risk Overview Liquidity risk is the risk of not being able to raise sufficient funds or maintain collateral to meet balance sheet and contingent liability cash flow obligations when due, because of firm-specific or market-wide stress events. Northern Trust maintains a strong liquidity position and liquidity risk profile. Northern Trust’s balance sheet is primarily liability-driven. That is, the main driver of balance sheet changes comes from changing levels of client deposits, which are generally related to the level of custody assets serviced and commercial and personal deposits and can also be influenced by market conditions. This liability-driven business model differs from a typical asset-driven business model, where increased levels of deposits and wholesale borrowings are required to support, for example, increased levels of lending. Northern Trust’s balance sheet is generally comprised of high-quality assets that are managed to meet anticipated obligations under stress, resulting in low liquidity risk. Liquidity Risk Framework and Governance Northern Trust maintains a liquidity risk framework consisting of risk management policies and practices to keep its risk profile within the Board-approved Corporate Risk Appetite Statement. All liquidity risk activities are overseen by the Risk Management function, which is independent of the businesses undertaking the activities. The Liquidity Management Policy and exposure limits for liquidity risk are set by the Board of Directors, and committee structures have been established to implement and monitor adherence to corporate policies, external regulations and established procedures. Limits are monitored based on measures such as the liquidity coverage ratio (LCR), the NSFR, and the liquidity stress-testing buffer across a range of time horizons. Treasury, in the first line of defense, proposes liquidity risk management strategies and is responsible for performing liquidity management activities. The Asset and MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Liability Management Committee (ALCO) provides first-line management oversight and is responsible for approving strategies and activities within the risk appetite, monitoring risk metrics, overseeing balance sheet resources, and reviewing reporting such as cash flows, LCR, NSFR, and stress test results. Market and Liquidity Risk Management, in the second line of defense, provides challenge to the first-line activities, evaluates compliance with regulatory requirements and process effectiveness, and escalates material items for corrective action. The Market and Liquidity Risk Committee (MLRC) provides second-line oversight and is responsible for reviewing market and liquidity risk exposures, approving and monitoring risk metrics, and approving key methodologies and assumptions that drive liquidity risk measurement. Liquidity Risk Analysis, Monitoring, and Reporting Liquidity risk is analyzed and monitored in order to ensure compliance with the approved risk appetite. Various liquidity analysis and monitoring activities are employed by Northern Trust to understand better the nature and sources of its liquidity risks, including: liquidity stress testing, liquidity metric monitoring, collateral management, intraday management, cash flow projections, operational deposit modeling, liquid asset buffer measurement, funds transfer pricing, and contingency funding planning. The liquidity risk management process is supported through management and regulatory reporting. Both Northern Trust’s Treasury and Market and Liquidity Risk Management functions produce management reports that enable oversight bodies to make informed decisions and support management of liquidity risk within the approved risk appetite. Holistic liquidity metrics such as LCR, NSFR and internal liquidity stress testing are actively monitored, along with a suite of other metrics that provide early warning indicators of changes in the risk profile. Regulatory Environment Northern Trust actively follows regulatory developments and regularly evaluates its liquidity risk management framework against proposed rule-making and industry best practices in order to comply with applicable regulations and further enhance its liquidity policies. Please refer to “Supervision and Regulation—Liquidity Standards” in Item 1, “Business,” for a discussion of applicable liquidity standards. Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) The LCR Final Rule requires covered banking organizations, which include the Corporation, to maintain an amount of high-quality liquid assets (HQLAs) equal to or greater than 100% of the banking organization’s total net cash outflows over a 30 calendar-day standardized supervisory liquid stress scenario. The requirements of the LCR Final Rule are intended to promote the short-term resilience of the liquidity risk profile of covered banking organizations, improve the banking industry’s ability to absorb shocks arising from financial and economic stress, and improve the measurement and management of liquidity risk. The Corporation and the Bank each satisfied the U.S. liquidity coverage ratio requirements during 2022. U.S. Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) The NSFR Final Rule requires covered banking organizations, which include the Corporation, to maintain an amount of available stable funding (ASF) equal to or greater than the banking organization’s projected minimum funding needs, or required stable funding (RSF), over a one-year time horizon. The NSFR is designed to reduce the likelihood that disruptions to a banking organization’s regular sources of funding will compromise its liquidity position, promote effective liquidity risk management, and support the ability of banking organizations to provide financial intermediation to businesses and households across a range of market conditions. The NSFR supports financial stability by requiring banking organizations to fund their activities with stable sources of funding on an ongoing basis, reducing the possibility that funding shocks would substantially increase distress at individual banking organizations. The Corporation and the Bank each satisfied the NSFR requirements during 2022. Funding Northern Trust maintains a very liquid balance sheet, with cash and due from banks, deposits with the Federal Reserve and other central banks, short-term money market assets and investment securities in aggregate representing 63% and 71% of total assets as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The market value of unencumbered securities at the Bank, which include those placed at the Federal Reserve discount window, totaled $46.2 billion and $59.0 billion at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. As the Corporation’s principal subsidiary encompassing all of Northern Trust’s banking activities, the Bank centrally manages liquidity for all U.S. and international banking operations. Liquidity is provided by a variety of sources, including client deposits (institutional and personal) from the Asset Servicing and Wealth Management businesses, wholesale funding from the capital markets, maturities of short-term investments, interest earned on investment securities and money MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS market assets, Federal Home Loan Bank advances, and unencumbered liquid assets that can be sold or pledged to secure additional funds. While management does not view central bank discount windows as primary sources of liquidity, at December 31, 2022 and 2021, the Bank had over $39.0 billion and $55.0 billion, respectively of securities and loans readily available as collateral to support discount window borrowings. The Bank also is active in the U.S. interbank funding market, providing an important source of additional liquidity and low-cost funds. The liquidity of the Corporation is managed separately from that of the Bank. The primary sources of cash for the Corporation are issuances of debt or equity and dividend payments from the Bank. For further information on issuances or redemptions of debt or equity, please refer to Note 13, “Senior Notes and Long-Term Debt” provided in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” The Corporation received no dividends and $751.1 million of dividends from the Bank in 2022 and 2021, respectively. Dividends from the Bank are subject to certain restrictions, as discussed in further detail in Note 30, “Restrictions on Subsidiary Dividends and Loans or Advances,” provided in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” The Corporation’s liquidity, defined as the amount of cash and highly marketable assets, was $601.4 million and $1.7 billion at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. During, and at year-end, 2022 and 2021, these assets were comprised almost entirely of cash in a demand deposit account at the Bank or overnight money market placements, both of which were fully available to the Corporation to support its own cash flow requirements or those of its subsidiaries, as needed. Average liquidity during 2022 and 2021 was $1.2 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively. The cash flows of the Corporation are shown in Note 33, “Northern Trust Corporation (Corporation only),” provided in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Uses of Liquidity Liquidity supports a variety of activities, including client withdrawals, purchases of securities, net loan growth, and draws on commitments to extend credit. The Corporation’s uses of cash consist mainly of dividend payments to the Corporation’s stockholders; the payment of principal and interest to note holders; repurchases of its common stock; and investments in, or loans to, its subsidiaries. The most significant uses of cash by the Corporation during 2022 were $750.2 million of common stock dividends and $35.4 million of common stock repurchases. The most significant uses of cash by the Corporation during 2021 were $583.3 million of common stock dividends, repayments of senior notes and floating rate capital debt of $500.0 million and $278.8 million, respectively, and $267.6 million of common stock repurchases. Credit Ratings A significant source of liquidity for both the Corporation and the Bank is the ability to draw funding from capital markets globally. The credit ratings of the Corporation and the Bank as of December 31, 2022, provided in the following table, allow Northern Trust to access capital markets on favorable terms. TABLE 47: NORTHERN TRUST CREDIT RATINGS AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2022 A significant downgrade in one or more of these ratings could limit Northern Trust’s access to capital markets and/or increase the rates paid for short-term borrowings, including deposits, and future long-term debt issuances. The size of these rate increases would depend on multiple factors, including the extent of the downgrade, Northern Trust’s relative debt rating compared to other financial institutions, current market conditions, and other factors. In addition, as discussed in Note 27, “Offsetting of Assets and Liabilities,” provided in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” Northern Trust enters into certain master netting arrangements with derivative counterparties that contain credit-risk-related MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS contingent features in which the counterparty has the option to declare Northern Trust in default and accelerate cash settlement of net derivative liabilities with the counterparty in the event Northern Trust’s credit rating falls below specified levels. At December 31, 2022, the net maximum amount of these termination payments that Northern Trust could have been required to pay was $135.8 million. Other than these credit-risk-related contingent derivative counterparty payments, Northern Trust had no long-term debt covenants or other credit-risk-related payments at December 31, 2022, that would be triggered by a significant downgrade in its debt ratings. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Please refer to Note 25, “Commitments and Contingent Liabilities,” provided in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for information on off-balance sheet arrangements and the Credit Risk discussion in the “Risk Management” section for further detail on undrawn commitments. Market Risk Management There are two types of market risk, interest rate risk associated with the banking book and trading risk. Interest rate risk associated with the banking book is the potential for movements in interest rates to cause changes in Net Interest Income and the market value of equity, including Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) from the available for sale debt securities portfolio. Trading risk is the potential for movements in market variables such as foreign exchange and interest rates to cause changes in the value of trading positions. Market Risk Framework and Governance Northern Trust maintains a market risk framework consisting of risk management policies and practices to keep its risk profile within the Board-approved Corporate Risk Appetite Statement. All market risk activities are overseen by the Risk Management function, which is independent of the businesses undertaking the activities. The Asset and Liability Management Policy, Policy on Dealer Trading Activities, and exposure limits for market risk are set by Board-level committees, and committee structures have been established to implement and monitor adherence to corporate policies, external regulations and established procedures. Limits are monitored based on measures such as sensitivity of Net Interest Income (NII), sensitivity of market value of equity (MVE), and value-at-risk (VaR) across a range of time horizons. Treasury, in the first line of defense, proposes market risk management strategies and is responsible for performing market risk management activities. The ALCO provides first-line management oversight and is responsible for approving strategies and activities within the risk appetite, monitoring risk metrics, overseeing balance sheet resources, overseeing the execution of strategies, and reviewing reporting such as stress test results. Market and Liquidity Risk Management, in the second line of defense, provides challenge to the first-line activities, evaluates compliance with regulatory requirements and process effectiveness, and escalates material items for corrective action. The MLRC provides second-line oversight and is responsible for reviewing market risk exposures, establishing and monitoring risk metrics, and approving key methodologies and assumptions that drive market risk measurement. Interest Rate Risk Overview Interest rate risk in the banking book is the potential for deterioration in Northern Trust's financial position (e.g. interest income, market value of equity, or capital) due to changes in interest rates. NII and MVE sensitivity are the primary metrics used for measurement and management of interest rate risk. Changes in interest rates can have a positive or negative impact on NII depending on the positioning of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet instruments. Changes in interest rates also can impact the values of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet positions, which directly impact the MVE. Higher interest rates may impact the fair value of available for sale debt securities which in turn affects Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) that can impact regulatory capital ratios. To mitigate interest rate risk, the balance sheet is managed so that movements of interest rates on assets and liabilities (adjusted for hedges) are sufficiently correlated, which allows Northern Trust to manage its interest rate risk within its risk appetite. There are four commonly recognized types of structural interest rate risk in the banking book: • repricing risk, which arises from differences in the maturity and repricing terms of assets and liabilities; • yield curve risk, which arises from changes in the shape of the yield curve; • basis risk, which arises from imperfect correlation in the adjustment of the rates earned and paid on different financial instruments with otherwise similar repricing characteristics; and • embedded optionality risk, which arises from client or counterparty behavior in response to interest rate changes. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Interest Rate Risk Analysis, Monitoring, and Reporting Northern Trust uses two primary measurement techniques to manage interest rate risk: NII and MVE sensitivity. NII sensitivity provides management with a short-term view of the impact of interest rate changes on NII. MVE sensitivity provides management with a long-term view of interest rate changes on MVE based on the period-end balance sheet. Northern Trust limits aggregate interest rate risk (as measured by the NII sensitivity and MVE sensitivity simulation techniques) to an acceptable level within the context of risk appetite. A variety of actions may be used to implement risk management strategies to modify interest rate risk including: • purchase of investment securities; • sale of investment securities that are classified as available for sale; • issuance of senior notes and subordinated notes; • collateralized borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank; and • hedging with various types of derivative financial instruments. NII Sensitivity The modeling of NII sensitivity incorporates on-balance sheet positions, as well as derivative financial instruments (principally interest rate swaps) that are used to manage interest rate risk. Northern Trust uses market implied forward interest rates as the base case and measures the sensitivity (i.e., change) of a static balance sheet to changes in interest rates. Stress testing of interest rates is performed to include such scenarios as immediate parallel shocks to rates, nonparallel (i.e., twist) changes to yield curves that result in their becoming steeper or flatter, and changes to the relationship among the yield curves (i.e., basis risk). The NII sensitivity analysis incorporates certain critical assumptions such as interest rates and client behaviors under changing rate environments. These assumptions are based on a combination of historical analysis and future expected pricing behavior. The simulation cannot precisely estimate NII sensitivity given uncertainty in the assumptions. The following key assumptions are incorporated into the NII simulation: • the balance sheet size and mix remains constant over the simulation horizon with maturing assets and liabilities replaced with instruments with similar terms as those that are maturing, with the exception of certain nonmaturity deposits that are considered short-term in nature and therefore receive a more conservative interest-bearing treatment; • prepayments on mortgage loans and securities collateralized by mortgages are projected under each rate scenario using a third-party mortgage analytics system that incorporates market prepayment assumptions; • cash flows for structured securities are estimated using a third-party vendor in conjunction with the prepayments provided by the third-party mortgage analytics vendor; • nonmaturity deposit pricing is projected based on Northern Trust’s actual historical patterns and management judgment, depending upon the availability of historical data and current pricing strategies/or judgment; and • new business rates are based on current spreads to market indices. The following table shows the estimated NII impact over the next twelve months of 100 and 200 basis point ramps upward and 100 basis point ramp downward movements in interest rates relative to forward rates as of December 31, 2022 and 2021. A 200 basis point ramp downward movement in interest rate relative to forward rate is provided as of December 31, 2022. Each rate movement is assumed to occur gradually over a one-year period. Given the low level of interest rates at the time and assumed interest rate floors as rates approach zero, the 200 basis point ramp downward movement in interest rate relative to forward rate as of December 31, 2021 would not provide meaningful results and is therefore not provided. TABLE 48: NET INTEREST INCOME SENSITIVITY The NII sensitivity analysis does not incorporate certain management actions that may be used to mitigate adverse effects of actual interest rate movement. For that reason and others, the estimated impacts do not reflect the likely actual results but serve as estimates of interest rate risk. NII sensitivity is not comparable to actual results disclosed elsewhere or directly predictive of future values of other measures provided. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS MVE Sensitivity MVE is defined as the present value of assets minus the present value of liabilities, net of the value of financial derivatives that are used to manage the interest rate risk of balance sheet items. The MVE looks at the whole balance sheet, which includes available for sale debt securities, held to maturity debt securities, money market accounts, deposits, loans and wholesale borrowings. The potential effect of interest rate changes on MVE is derived from the impact of such changes on projected future cash flows and the present value of these cash flows and is then compared to the established limit. Northern Trust uses current market rates (and the future rates implied by these market rates) as the base case and measures MVE sensitivity under various rate scenarios. Stress testing of interest rates is performed to include such scenarios as immediate parallel shocks to rates, nonparallel (i.e., twist) changes to yield curves that result in their becoming steeper or flatter, and changes to the relationship among the yield curves (i.e., basis risk). The MVE sensitivity analysis incorporates certain critical assumptions such as interest rates and client behaviors under changing rate environments. These assumptions are based on a combination of historical analysis and future expected pricing behavior. The simulation cannot precisely estimate MVE sensitivity given uncertainty in the assumptions. Many of the assumptions that apply to NII sensitivity also apply to MVE sensitivity simulations, with the following separate key assumptions incorporated into the MVE simulation: • the present value of nonmaturity deposits are estimated using dynamic decay methodologies or estimated remaining lives, which are based on a combination of Northern Trust’s actual historical runoff patterns and management judgment—some balances are assumed to be core and have longer lives while other balances are assumed to be temporary and have comparatively shorter lives; • the present values of most noninterest-related balances (such as receivables, equipment, and payables) are the same as their book values; and • Monte Carlo simulation is used to generate forward interest rate paths. The following table shows the estimated impact on MVE of 100 and 200 basis point shocks up and 100 basis point shock down from current market implied forward rates at December 31, 2022 and 2021. A 200 basis point shock down from current market implied forward rate is provided at December 31, 2022. Each rate movement is assumed to occur gradually over a one-year period. The 200 basis point shock down from current market implied forward rate at December 31, 2021 would not provide meaningful results and is therefore not provided. TABLE 49: MARKET VALUE OF EQUITY SENSITIVITY The MVE simulations do not incorporate certain management actions that may be used to mitigate adverse effects of actual interest rate movements. For that reason and others, the estimated impacts do not reflect the likely actual results but serve as estimates of interest rate risk. MVE sensitivity is not comparable to actual results disclosed elsewhere or directly predictive of future values of other measures provided. Foreign Currency Risk Overview Northern Trust’s balance sheet is exposed to nontrading foreign currency risk as a result of its holdings of non-U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities, investment in non-U.S. subsidiaries, and future non-U.S. dollar denominated revenue and expense. To manage currency exposures on the balance sheet, Northern Trust attempts to match its assets and liabilities by currency. If those currency offsets do not exist on the balance sheet, Northern Trust will use foreign exchange derivative contracts to mitigate its currency exposure. Foreign exchange contracts are also used to reduce Northern Trust’s currency exposure to future non-U.S. dollar denominated revenue and expense. In addition, Northern Trust provides global foreign exchange (GFX) services to clients. Most of these services are provided in connection with Northern Trust’s global custody business. In the normal course of business, Northern Trust also engages in trading of non-U.S. currencies for its own account. Both activities are considered trading activities. Foreign currency trading positions exist when aggregate obligations to purchase and sell a currency other than the U.S. dollar do not offset each other in amount, or offset each other over different time periods. The GFX trading portfolio at Northern Trust is composed of spot, forward, and non-deliverable foreign currency transactions. For GFX, spot risk is driven primarily by foreign exchange rate (FX) risk, and forward risk is driven primarily by interest rate (IR) risk. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Foreign Currency Risk Measurement Northern Trust measures daily the risk of loss associated with all non-U.S. currency positions using a VaR model and applying the historical simulation methodology. This statistical model provides estimates, based on high confidence levels, of the potential loss in value that might be incurred if an adverse shift in non-U.S. currency exchange rates and interest rates were to occur over a small number of days. The model incorporates foreign currency and interest rate volatilities and correlations in price movements among the currencies. VaR is computed for each trading desk and for the global portfolio. VaR measures are computed in a vendor software application which reads foreign exchange positions from Northern Trust’s trading systems each day. Data vendors provide foreign exchange rates and interest rates for all currencies. The Risk Management function monitors on a daily basis VaR model inputs and outputs for reasonableness. Foreign Currency Risk Monitoring, Reporting and Analysis Northern Trust monitors several variations of the GFX VaR measures to meet specific regulatory and internal management needs. Variations include different methodologies (historical simulation, Monte Carlo simulation and Taylor approximation), horizons of one day and ten days, confidence levels of 95% and 99%, subcomponent VaRs using only FX drivers and only IR drivers, and look-back periods of one year, two years, and four years. Those alternative measures provide management an array of corroborating metrics and alternative perspectives on Northern Trust’s market risks. Automated daily reports are produced and distributed to business managers and risk managers. The Risk Management function also reviews and reports several variations of the VaR measures in historical time series format to provide management with a historical perspective on risk. The following table presents the levels of total regulatory VaR and its subcomponents for GFX in the years indicated below, based on the historical simulation methodology, a 99% confidence level, a one-day horizon and equally-weighted volatility. The total VaR for GFX is typically less than the sum of its two subcomponents due to diversification benefits derived from the two subcomponents. TABLE 50: GLOBAL FOREIGN CURRENCY VALUE-AT-RISK During 2022 and 2021, Northern Trust did not incur an actual GFX trading loss in excess of the daily GFX VaR estimate. Other Nonmaterial Trading Activities Market risk associated with other trading activities is immaterial. Northern Trust’s broker-dealer subsidiary, Northern Trust Securities, Inc., maintains a portfolio of trading securities held for customer accommodation purposes and, beginning in 2022, invests excess cash balances in short-term investment vehicles. These activities averaged $12.1 million and $0.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Northern Trust is also party to interest rate derivative contracts consisting mostly of interest rate swaps and swaptions entered into to meet clients’ interest rate risk management needs, but also including a small number of caps and floors. All interest rate derivative transactions are executed by Northern Trust's Treasury department. When Northern Trust enters into client transactions, its practice is to mitigate the resulting market risk with offsetting interbank derivative transactions with matching terms and maturities. Strategic Risk Strategic risk is the vulnerability of the organization to internal or external developments that render corporate strategy ineffective or unachievable. The consequences of strategic risk can be diminished long-term earnings and capital, as well as reputational damage to the firm. Strategic risk encompasses two main areas: • Macroeconomic and geopolitical risk centers on external events or developments that would have a detrimental impact on financial markets and/or financial services firms. • Business risk arises from internal, secular, competitive, or regulatory trends that impact Northern Trust’s stated strategy or its achievability. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Strategic Risk Framework and Governance The Corporate Strategic Risk Framework has been developed in conjunction with the Corporation’s risk appetite and risk management policies, and defines the mission and expectations of the Strategic Risk Management function to identify and analyze the sources and consequences of strategic risk. This is achieved through participation in the establishment and review of business line strategy, coordination of risk input to the evaluation of key strategic opportunities, and developing and maintaining a risk inventory and set of metrics which attempt to gauge the level of strategic risk within the organization. In addition, the Strategic Risk Management function maintains the Global Event Response Program, which aims to anticipate and prepare for stress scenarios, and provide an outline for responding to them when they occur. Both GERC and the Business Risk Committee are responsible for reviewing the general methods, guidelines and frameworks by which Northern Trust monitors and evaluates strategic risk. Climate Risk Climate risk continues to be a growing strategic risk for the Corporation. Climate risk refers to the risk of loss arising from climate change and is comprised of both physical risk and transition risk. Physical risk refers to the risks related to the physical impacts of climate change, driven by extreme weather events, such as hurricanes and floods, as well as chronic longer-term shifts, such as rising average global temperatures and sea-level rise. Transition risk refers to the transition to a low-carbon economy, which may entail extensive policy, regulatory, legal, technology and market changes. These risks can impact both financial and nonfinancial risk types and can have broad impacts on operations, supply chains, distribution networks, customers and markets. Effective management of climate risk requires coordinated governance, clearly defined roles and responsibilities and well-developed processes to identify, measure, monitor and control risks. We continue to build out and enhance our climate risk management capabilities. Our climate risk management efforts are overseen by the Director of Climate Risk who reports indirectly to the CRO. The Risk Management function has created a dedicated climate and sustainability risk unit to monitor, oversee and take account of the increasing impact that climate change has, or may in the future have, on operations, credit conditions, and regulatory compliance across the globe. The climate and sustainability risk unit will also work to continually evolve the risk management framework to ensure the Corporation meets the expectations of all stakeholders as well as all climate-related commitments made by the Corporation to external agencies. The Board of Directors, and in particular its Corporate Governance Committee, engages in active oversight of ESG matters of significance to the Corporation and its subsidiaries, including climate-related risk. In addition, the Business Risk Committee provides oversight of certain financial and operational risks associated with climate change and other environmental factors through its oversight of the Corporation’s global risk management framework and risk management policies. The Business Risk Committee also engages in periodic discussions with management and members of the Risk Management function regarding strategic risks, including climate-related risk. The Corporation expects that climate change will increasingly impact the risk types it manages, and the Corporation will continue to integrate climate considerations into its risk management framework as its understanding of climate change and risks driven by it evolve. Various regulatory agencies, investors, and other stakeholders have increased expectations and scrutiny in this area. The Corporation is committed to helping mitigate the impacts of climate change related to its activities and to partner with key stakeholders to do the same. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report may include statements which constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are identified typically by words or phrases such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “estimate,” “project,” “likely,” “plan,” “goal,” “target,” “strategy,” and similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “would,” and “could.” Forward-looking statements include statements, other than those related to historical facts, that relate to Northern Trust’s financial results and outlook; capital adequacy; dividend policy and share repurchase program; accounting estimates and assumptions; credit quality including allowance levels; future pension plan contributions; effective tax rate; anticipated expense levels; contingent liabilities; acquisitions; strategies; market and industry trends; and expectations regarding the impact of accounting pronouncements and legislation. These statements are based on Northern Trust’s current beliefs and expectations of future events or future results, and involve risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict and subject to change. These statements are also based on assumptions about many important factors, including: • financial market disruptions or economic recession in the United States or other countries across the globe resulting from any of a number of factors; • volatility or changes in financial markets, including debt and equity markets, that impact the value, liquidity, or credit ratings of financial assets in general, or financial assets held in particular investment funds or client portfolios, including those funds, portfolios, and other financial assets with respect to which Northern Trust has taken, or may in the future take, actions to provide asset value stability or additional liquidity; • the impact of equity markets on fee revenue; • changes in interest rates or in the monetary or other policies of various regulatory authorities or central banks; • Northern Trust’s success in controlling the costs and expenses of its business operations and the impacts of any broader inflationary environment thereon; • a decline in the value of securities held in Northern Trust’s investment portfolio, the liquidity and pricing of which may be negatively impacted by periods of economic turmoil and financial market disruptions; • Northern Trust’s ability to address operating risks, including those related to cybersecurity, data security, human errors or omissions, pricing or valuation of securities, fraud, operational resilience (including systems performance), failure to maintain sustainable business practices, and breakdowns in processes or internal controls; • Northern Trust's success in responding to and investing in changes and advancements in technology; • geopolitical risks, risks related to global climate change and the risks of extraordinary events such as pandemics, natural disasters, terrorist events and war (including the continuing military conflict involving Ukraine and the Russian Federation), and the responses of the United States and other countries to those events; • the effectiveness of Northern Trust’s management of its human capital, including its success in recruiting and retaining necessary and diverse personnel to support business growth and expansion and maintain sufficient expertise to support increasingly complex products and services; • the downgrade of U.S. government-issued and other securities; • changes in foreign exchange trading client volumes and volatility in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in the valuation of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies in which Northern Trust records revenue or accrues expenses, and Northern Trust’s success in assessing and mitigating the risks arising from all such changes and volatility; • a significant downgrade of any of Northern Trust’s debt ratings; • the health and soundness of the financial institutions and other counterparties with which Northern Trust conducts business; • uncertainties inherent in the complex and subjective judgments required to assess credit risk and establish appropriate allowances therefor; • the transition away from LIBOR or changes in the calculation of alternative interest rate benchmarks; • the pace and extent of continued globalization of investment activity and growth in worldwide financial assets; • changes in the legal, regulatory and enforcement framework and oversight applicable to financial institutions, including Northern Trust; • increased costs of compliance and other risks associated with changes in regulation, the current regulatory environment, and areas of increased regulatory emphasis and oversight in the United States and other countries, such as anti-money laundering, anti-bribery, and data privacy; • failure to satisfy regulatory standards or to obtain regulatory approvals when required, including for the use and distribution of capital; • changes in tax laws, accounting requirements or interpretations and other legislation in the United States or other countries that could affect Northern Trust or its clients; • changes in the nature and activities of Northern Trust’s competition; MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS • Northern Trust’s success in maintaining existing business and continuing to generate new business in existing and targeted markets and its ability to deploy deposits in a profitable manner consistent with its liquidity requirements; • Northern Trust’s ability to address the complex needs of a global client base and manage compliance with legal, tax, regulatory and other requirements; • Northern Trust’s ability to maintain a product mix that achieves acceptable margins; • Northern Trust’s ability to continue to generate investment results that satisfy clients and to develop an array of investment products; • uncertainties inherent in Northern Trust’s assumptions concerning its pension plan, including discount rates and expected contributions, returns and payouts; • Northern Trust’s success in continuing to enhance its risk management practices and controls and managing risks inherent in its businesses, including credit risk, operational risk, market and liquidity risk, fiduciary risk, compliance risk and strategic risk; • risks and uncertainties inherent in the litigation and regulatory process, including the possibility that losses may be in excess of Northern Trust’s recorded liability and estimated range of possible loss for litigation exposures; • risks associated with being a holding company, including Northern Trust’s dependence on dividends from its principal subsidiary; • the risk of damage to Northern Trust’s reputation which may undermine the confidence of clients, counterparties, rating agencies, and stockholders; and • other factors identified elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including those factors described in Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” and other filings with the SEC, all of which are available on Northern Trust’s website. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements. The information contained herein is current only as of the date of that information. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based upon information presently available, and Northern Trust assumes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION Reconciliation to Fully Taxable Equivalent The following table presents a reconciliation of Interest Income, Net Interest Income, net interest margin, and total revenue prepared in accordance with GAAP to such measures on an FTE basis, which are non-GAAP financial measures. Net interest margin is calculated by dividing annualized Net Interest Income by average interest-earning assets. Management believes this presentation provides a clearer indication of these financial measures for comparative purposes. When adjusted to an FTE basis, yields on taxable, nontaxable and partially taxable assets are comparable; however, the adjustment to an FTE basis has no impact on Net Income. TABLE 51: RECONCILIATION TO FULLY TAXABLE EQUIVALENT