********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Many of the factors that affect our business and operations involve risk and uncertainty. The factors described below are some of the risks that could materially negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Industry Specific Risk Factors Overcapacity in the global steel industry could increase the level of steel imports, which may negatively affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Global steel production overcapacity continues to be an ongoing risk to Nucor and the entire steel industry. The OECD estimates that global steel production overcapacity currently more than 500,000,000 tons, with additional capacity expected to come online over the next few years.  China continues to be a significant contributor to excess steelmaking capacity, producing more than 1 billion tons of steel in each of the past three years, despite slower economic growth and the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. China is also investing in new steelmaking capacity in several countries in southeast Asia and Africa. During periods of global economic weakness, this overcapacity is amplified because of weaker global demand for steel and steel products. This excess capacity often results in manufacturers in certain countries exporting significant amounts of steel and steel products at prices that are at or below their costs of production. In some countries the steel industry is subsidized or owned in whole or in part by the government, giving imported steel from those countries certain cost advantages. These imports, which are also affected by demand in the domestic market, international currency conversion rates, and domestic and international government actions, can result in downward pressure on steel prices, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In March 2018, the President signed a proclamation imposing a 25% tariff or quota limits on all imported steel products for an indefinite period of time under Section 232. The tariff or quota limits are imposed on all steel imports with the exception of steel imports originating from Australia, Canada and Mexico. During 2022, the current administration converted the tariff on steel imports from the European Union, United Kingdom and Japan to a tariff rate quota. In December of 2022, the World Trade Organization (WTO) ruled that the Section 232 tariffs violated U.S. WTO commitments. The U.S. government strongly disagrees with the ruling and is appealing. When the Section 232 or other import tariffs, quotas or duties expire or if others are further relaxed or repealed, or if relatively higher U.S. steel prices make it attractive for foreign steelmakers to export their steel products to the U.S., despite the presence of import tariffs, quotas or duties, the resurgence of substantial imports of foreign steel could create downward pressure on U.S. steel prices. 19 Our business requires substantial capital investment and maintenance expenditures, and our capital resources may not be adequate to provide for all of our cash requirements. Our operations are capital intensive. For the three-year period ended December 31, 2022, our total capital expenditures were approximately $5.18 billion. Our business requires substantial expenditures for routine maintenance. We also recently announced substantial capital projects that we expect will increase production capacity, increase the efficiency of our operations and enhance our product offerings. Although we expect requirements for our business needs, including the funding of capital expenditures, debt service for financings and any contingencies, will be financed by internally generated funds, short-term commercial paper issuances, offerings of our debt securities or from borrowings under our $1.75 billion unsecured revolving credit facility, we cannot guarantee that this will be the case. Additional acquisitions, increases in interest rates or unforeseen events could require financing from additional sources. Changes in the availability and cost of electricity and natural gas are subject to volatile market conditions that could adversely affect our business. Our steel mills are large consumers of electricity and natural gas. In addition, our DRI facilities are also large consumers of natural gas. We rely upon third parties for our supply of energy resources consumed in the manufacture of our products. The prices for and availability of electricity and natural gas are subject to volatile market conditions. These market conditions often are affected by weather, political, regulatory and economic factors beyond our control, and we may be unable to raise the price of our products to cover increased energy costs. Disruptions, including physical or information systems related issues, that impact the supply of our energy resources could temporarily impair our ability to manufacture our products for our customers. Increases in our energy costs resulting from market fluctuations or regulations that are not equally applicable across the entire global steel market could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Competition from other steel producers, imports or alternative materials may adversely affect our business. We face strong competition from other steel producers and imports that compete with our products on price, quality and service. The steel markets are highly competitive and a number of firms, domestic and foreign, participate in the steel, steel products and raw materials markets. Depending on a variety of factors, including the cost and availability of raw materials, energy, technology, labor, transportation and capital costs, currency exchange rates, government subsidies of foreign steel producers and other global political and economic factors, our business may be materially adversely affected by competitive forces. In many applications, steel competes with other materials, such as concrete, aluminum, plastics, composites and wood. Increased use or availability of these materials in substitution for steel products could have a material adverse effect on prices and demand for our steel products. Our industry is cyclical and both recessions and prolonged periods of slow economic growth could have an adverse effect on our business. Demand for most of our products is cyclical in nature and sensitive to general economic conditions. Our business supports cyclical industries, such as the commercial construction, energy, metals service centers, appliance and automotive industries. As a result, downturns in the U.S. economy or any of these industries could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The U.S. economy has experienced a strong recovery from the conditions experienced at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, but new variants of COVID-19 and the continued abatement of the COVID-19 pandemic, related labor shortages and supply chain disruptions, new or proposed legislation related to governmental spending, inflation and increases in interest rates have impacted, and are expected to continue to impact, economic growth. Even with this economic recovery, challenges from global production overcapacity in the steel industry and ongoing uncertainties, both in the United States and in other regions of the world, remain. 20 We are unable to predict with certainty the duration of current economic conditions or the magnitude and timing of changes in economic activity . Future economic downturns, prolonged slow growth or stagnation in the economy, a sector-specific slowdown in one of our key end-use markets, such as nonresidential construction, or changes in inflation could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, especially in light of the capital - intensive nature of our business . The results of our operations are sensitive to volatility in steel prices and the cost and availability of raw materials, particularly scrap steel. We rely to an extent on outside vendors to supply us with key consumables such as graphite electrodes and raw materials, including both scrap and scrap substitutes that are critical to the manufacture of our steel products. The raw material required to produce DRI is pelletized iron ore. Although we have vertically integrated our business by constructing our DRI facilities in Trinidad and Louisiana and also by acquiring our scrap processing and brokerage operations (“DJJ”) in 2008, we still must purchase most of our primary raw material, steel scrap, from numerous other sources located throughout the United States and internationally. Although we believe that the supply of scrap and scrap substitutes will remain adequate to operate our facilities, prices of these critical raw materials are volatile and are influenced by changes in scrap exports in response to changes in the scrap, scrap substitutes and iron ore demands of our global competitors, as well as volatility in currency rates and political conditions.  For example, when Russia invaded the eastern regions of Ukraine in February of 2022, we stopped all ordering of pig iron (a scrap substitute) from Russia and the supply of global pig iron was severely disrupted due to the concentration of pig iron supply in Russia and Ukraine. This had a material impact on pig iron pricing, an indirect impact on pricing of other raw materials and caused volatility in raw materials markets for much of 2022. At any given time, we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of these critical raw materials with price and other terms acceptable to us. The availability and prices of raw materials may also be negatively affected by new laws and regulations, allocation by suppliers, interruptions in production, accidents or natural disasters, war and other forms of armed conflict or political instability, changes in exchange rates, worldwide price fluctuations, including due to global political and economic factors, changes in governmental, business and consumer spending, inflation, increases in interest rates, labor shortages, and the availability and cost of transportation, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Many countries that export steel into our markets restrict the export of scrap, protecting the supply chain of some foreign competitors. This trade practice creates an artificial competitive advantage for foreign producers that could limit our ability to compete in the U.S. market. If our suppliers increase the prices of our critical raw materials, we may not have alternative sources of supply. In addition, to the extent that we have quoted prices to our customers and accepted customer orders for our products prior to purchasing necessary raw materials, we may be unable to raise the price of our products to cover all or part of the increased cost of the raw materials or pass along increased transportation costs. Also, if we are unable to obtain adequate, cost-effective and timely deliveries of our required raw materials, we may be unable to timely manufacture sufficient quantities of our products. This could cause us to lose sales, incur additional costs, experience margin compressions or suffer harm to our reputation and customer relationships. Our steelmaking processes, our DRI processes, and the manufacturing processes of many of our suppliers, customers and competitors are energy intensive and generate carbon dioxide and other GHGs. The regulation of these GHGs could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, and, accordingly, we make provision in our financial statements for the estimated costs of compliance. There are inherent uncertainties in these estimates.  Most notably, the uncertainty of policies, enforcement priorities, legislation and regulations related to climate change mitigation strategies pose the greatest risk. 21 As a carbon steel producer, Nucor could be increasingly affected both directly and indirectly by new or changing carbon policy decisions and mandates . Carbon is an essential raw material in Nucor’s steel production processes. Furthermore, Nucor steel mills use significant amounts of electricity as all of its mills utilize EAFs for 100% of their steel melting operations and the decarbonization of electricity generation may lead to high power costs and decreased reliability. Significant changes to the regional power grids serving our steel mills and/or new rulemaking or legislation affecting the operation of these power grids could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Environmental regulation compliance and remediation could result in substantially increased costs and materially adversely impact our competitive position. We incur significant costs in meeting our environmental regulation compliance and remediation obligations. The principal federal environmental laws include the CAA, which regulates air emissions; the CWA which regulates water withdrawals and discharges; the RCRA, which addresses solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal; and the CERCLA, which governs releases of hazardous substances, and remediation of contaminated sites. Our operations are also subject to state and local environmental laws and regulations. In addition to the above mentioned statutes, certain revisions to National Ambient Air Quality Standards, as well as the actions/decisions of environmental regulators, could make it significantly more difficult for us to obtain construction permits and permits to expand existing operations.  Resulting cancellations, delays or unanticipated costs to these projects could negatively impact our ability to generate expected returns on our investments. These regulations can also increase our cost of energy, primarily electricity, which we use extensively in the steelmaking process.  We may in the future incur substantially increased costs complying with such regulations, particularly if federal regulatory agencies were to change their enforcement posture with respect to such regulations. Emerging customer preferences for greater product transparency and less GHG intensive materials may put us at a competitive disadvantage or reduce demand for our products. The federal government and numerous states are considering establishing requirements for Environmental Product Declarations (“EPDs”) to evaluate environmental impacts of products. California has enacted the “Buy Clean California Act” and California has established Global Warming Potential (GWP) benchmarks through EPDs for certain materials, including certain steel products.  EPD legislation has caused Nucor to incur additional costs and has the potential to put domestic steel manufacturers at a disadvantage to foreign competitors unless standardized mechanisms are used to fully evaluate products produced by foreign steel producers. General Risk Factors The COVID-19 pandemic, as well as similar epidemics and other public health emergencies in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our operations expose us to risks associated with pandemics, epidemics and other public health emergencies, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has had and may have further negative impacts on our operations, supply chain, transportation networks and customers, which may compress our margins or impact demand for our steel products, including as a result of preventative and precautionary measures that we, other businesses and governments have taken or may take in the future. The COVID-19 pandemic and governmental actions in response have adversely affected the economies of many countries and caused periodic disruption to and increased volatility in financial markets. The progression of the COVID-19 pandemic, including due to new variants of COVID-19, could also negatively impact our business or results of operations through the temporary closure of our operating facilities or those of our customers or suppliers. 22 In addition, the ability of our teammates and our suppliers’ and customers’ teammates to work may be significantly impacted by individuals contracting or being exposed to COVID-19 . Our customers may be directly impacted by business interruptions or weak market conditions and may not be willing or able to fulfill their contractual obligations. Furthermore, the progression of and global response to the COVID-19 pandemic has caused and increased the risk of further delays in construction activities and equipment deliveries related to our capital projects, including potential delays in obtaining permits from government agencies , as well as changes in the prices and availability of labor and equipment for capital projects. The extent to which COVID-19 may adversely impact our business depends on future developments, which are highly uncertain and unpredictable, including new variants of the virus, information concerning the severity of the pandemic, the adoption rate of vaccines, and the effectiveness of actions globally to contain or mitigate the effects of the pandemic. The current level of uncertainty over the economic and operational impacts of COVID-19 means the related financial impact cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. We are subject to information technology and cyber security threats which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We utilize various information technology systems to efficiently address business functions ranging from the operation of our production equipment to administrative computation to the storage of data such as intellectual property and proprietary business information. We also utilize third-party service providers for certain information technology services that are important to our operations. We continuously evaluate our cyber security systems and practices, assess potential threats, and improve our information technology networks, policies and procedures to address potential vulnerabilities. Despite efforts to assure secure and uninterrupted operations, threats from increasingly sophisticated cyber-attacks or system failures could result in materially adverse operational disruptions or security breaches of our systems or those of our third-party service providers. These risks could result in disclosure or destruction of key proprietary information or personal data or reputational damage, theft of assets or trade secrets, or could adversely affect our ability to physically produce or transport steel, resulting in lost revenues, as well as delays in reporting our financial results. We also could be required to spend significant financial and other resources to remedy the damage caused by a cyber security breach, including to repair or replace networks and information technology systems. We may also contend with potential liability for stolen information, increased cyber security protection costs, litigation expense and increased insurance premiums. Our operations are subject to business interruptions and casualty losses. The steelmaking business is subject to numerous inherent risks, particularly unplanned events such as explosions, fires, other accidents, natural disasters such as floods, hurricanes or earthquakes, critical equipment failures, acts of terrorism, inclement weather and transportation interruptions. While our insurance coverage could offset a portion of the losses relating to some of those types of events, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted to the extent that any such losses are not covered by our insurance, or that there are significant delays in resolving our claims with our insurance providers. We acquire businesses and enter into joint ventures from time to time and we may encounter difficulties in integrating businesses we acquire. We plan to continue to seek attractive opportunities to acquire businesses, enter into joint ventures and make other investments that strengthen Nucor. Realizing the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or other transactions will depend on our ability to operate these businesses and integrate them with our operations effectively identify and manage risks, and cooperate with our strategic partners. Our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to successfully integrate these businesses or otherwise fail to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or other transactions. 23 Risks associated with operating in international markets could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. Certain of our businesses and investments are located outside of the United States, in Canada, Mexico and in emerging markets. There are a number of risks inherent in doing business in or sourcing raw materials from such markets. These risks include, but are not limited to: unfavorable political or economic factors; local labor and social issues; changes in regulatory requirements; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and inflation; and complex foreign laws, treaties including tax laws, and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (FCPA). These risks could restrict our ability to operate our international businesses profitably and therefore have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. In addition, our reported results of operations and financial position could also be negatively affected by exchange rates when the activities and balances of our foreign operations are translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. The accounting treatment of equity method investments, goodwill and other long-lived assets could result in future asset impairments, which would reduce our earnings. We periodically test our equity method investments, goodwill and other long-lived assets to determine whether their estimated fair value is less than their value recorded on our balance sheet. The results of this testing for potential impairment may be adversely affected by uncertain market conditions for the global steel industry, as well as changes in interest rates, commodity prices and general economic conditions. If we determine that the fair value of any of these assets is less than the value recorded on our balance sheet, and, in the case of equity method investments the decline is other than temporary, we would likely incur a non-cash impairment loss that would negatively impact our results of operations. Tax increases and changes in tax laws and regulations or exposure to additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our financial results. The steel industry and our business are sensitive to changes in taxes. As a company based in the United States, Nucor is more exposed to the effects of changes in U.S. tax laws than some of our major competitors. Our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability in the future could be adversely affected by changes in U.S. tax laws. Nucor recognizes the effect of income tax positions only if those positions are believed to be more likely than not of being sustained. We cannot predict whether taxing authorities will conduct an audit challenging any of our tax positions and there can be no assurance as to the outcome of any challenges. If we are unsuccessful in any of these matters, we may be required to pay taxes for prior periods, interest, fines or penalties. We are subject to legal proceedings and legal compliance risks. We spend substantial resources ensuring that we comply with domestic and foreign regulations, contractual obligations and other legal standards. Notwithstanding this, we are subject to a variety of legal proceedings and legal compliance risks in respect of various issues, including regulatory, safety, environmental, employment, transportation, intellectual property, contractual, import/export, international trade and governmental matters that arise in the course of our business and in our industry. For information regarding our current significant legal proceedings, see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” A negative outcome in an unusual or significant legal proceeding or compliance investigation could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. While we believe that we have adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs, the nature of our operations means that legal compliance risks will continue to exist and additional legal proceedings and other contingencies, the outcome of which cannot be predicted with certainty, will arise from time to time. 24

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of Nucor Corporation should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements of the Company and the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this report discusses our financial condition and results of operations as of and for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021. Information concerning the year ended December 31, 2021 and a comparison of the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 may be found under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, filed with the SEC on February 28, 2022. Overview The U.S. economy grew at a slower rate in 2022 – 2.1 percent – compared 5.9 percent the prior year. Steel market demand in 2022 remained strong across many of the end markets we serve, particularly nonresidential construction. Operating rates at our steel mills for the full year 2022 decreased to 77% as compared to 94% for the full year 2021. Actions taken by Congress during the past two years are providing more than $1.5 trillion to rebuild traditional infrastructure, build-out clean energy infrastructure and re-shore semiconductor chip manufacturing back to the United States. These are steel-intensive projects that are expected to create millions of tons of additional steel demand. Funding from the Infrastructure Investment & Jobs Act (IIJA) will begin to make a significant impact in the market in 2023, and the CHIPS Act has already generated announcements for 40 new semiconductor ecosystem projects in the U.S. representing nearly $200 billion in private investments across 16 states. Strong Buy America requirements in the IIJA and the Inflation Reduction Act will ensure domestically produced steel is used to rebuild U.S. infrastructure and build-out new clean energy infrastructure. Approximately 50% of Nucor products are shipped into the construction market, and Nucor’s lower carbon footprint is expected to provide an additional advantage as states and localities look to rebuild infrastructure in a sustainable manner. Our Challenges and Risks Global steel production overcapacity continues to be an ongoing risk to Nucor and the entire steel industry, with the OECD estimating that global steel production overcapacity is currently more than 500,000,000 tons. However, additional capacity continues to come online and China’s steel production, the largest steel producing country, is still near record levels. In 2022, China’s steel production was 1.1 billion tons compared to 1.13 billion tons the previous year. Circumvention of trade duties also continues to pose a risk, as countries route products through third-party countries to evade duties. Increasingly, China is seeking to evade trade duties by building new steelmaking capacity in other countries with a focus on neighboring countries in southeast Asia, as well as Africa. A major uncertainty we continue to face in our business is the price of our principal raw material, ferrous scrap, which is volatile and often increases or decreases rapidly in response to changes in domestic demand, unanticipated events that affect the flow of scrap into scrap yards, the availability of scrap substitutes, currency fluctuations and changes in foreign demand for scrap. In periods of rapidly increasing raw material prices in the industry, which are often also associated with periods of stronger or rapidly improving steel market conditions, being able to increase our prices for the products we sell quickly enough to offset increases in the prices we pay for ferrous scrap is challenging but critical to maintaining our profitability. We attempt to mitigate the scrap price risk by managing scrap inventory levels at the steel mills to match the anticipated demand over the next several weeks. Certain scrap substitutes, including pig iron, have longer lead times for delivery than scrap, which can make this inventory management strategy difficult to achieve. Continued successful implementation of our raw material strategy, including key investments in DRI production, coupled with the scrap brokerage and processing services performed by our team at DJJ, give us greater control over our metallic inputs and thus also helps us to mitigate this risk. 32 During periods of stronger or rapidly improving steel market conditions, we are more likely to be able to pass through to our customers, relatively quickly, the increased costs of ferrous scrap and scrap substitutes, protecting our gross margins from significant erosion. During periods of weaker or rapidly deteriorating steel market conditions, weak steel demand, low industry utilization rates and the impact of imports create an even more intensified competitive environment and increased pricing pressure . All of those factors, to some degree, impact pricing, which increases the likelihood that Nucor will experience lower gross margins. Although the majority of our steel sales are to spot market customers in North America who place their orders each month based on their business needs and our pricing competitiveness compared to both domestic and global producers and trading companies, we also sell contract tons, most notably in our sheet operations. Approximately 85% of our sheet sales were to contract customers in 2022 (approximately 80% in 2021), with the balance being sold in the spot market at the prevailing prices at the time of sale. Steel contract sales outside of our sheet operations are not significant. The amount of tons sold to contract customers at any given time depends on the overall market conditions at the time, how the end-use customers see the market moving forward and the strategy that Nucor management believes is appropriate to the upcoming period. Nucor management considerations include maintaining an appropriate balance of spot and contract tons based on market projections and appropriately supporting our diversified customer base. The percentage of tons that is placed under contract also depends on the overall market dynamics and customer negotiations. In years of strengthening demand, we typically see an increase in the percentage of sheet sales sold under contract as our customers have an expectation that transaction prices will rapidly rise, and available capacity will quickly be sold out. To mitigate this risk, customers prefer to enter into contracts in order to obtain committed volumes of supply from the mills. The vast majority of our contracts include a method of adjusting prices on a periodic basis to reflect changes in the market pricing for steel and/or scrap. Market indices for steel generally trend with scrap pricing changes, but, during periods of steel market weakness, the more intensified competitive steel market environment can cause the sales price indices to decrease resulting in reduced gross margins and profitability. Furthermore, since the selling price adjustments are not immediate, there will always be a timing difference between changes in the prices we pay for raw materials and the adjustments we make to our contract selling prices. Generally, in periods of increasing scrap prices, we typically experience a short-term margin contraction on contract tons. Conversely, in periods of decreasing scrap prices, we typically experience a short-term margin expansion on contract tons. Contract sales typically have terms ranging from six to 12 months. Our Strengths and Opportunities We are North America’s most diversified steel producer. As a result, our short-term performance is not tied to any one market. We have numerous, large, strategic capital projects at various stages of progress that we believe will help us further diversify our product offerings and expand the markets that we serve. We expect these investments to grow our long-term earnings power by increasing our channels to market, expanding our product portfolio into higher value-added offerings, improving our cost structure and further building upon our market leadership positions. We believe that Nucor’s raw material supply chain is another important strength. Our investment in DRI production facilities and scrap brokerage and processing businesses provides Nucor with significant flexibility in optimizing our raw materials costs. Additionally, having a significant portion of our raw materials supply under our control reduces risk associated with the global sourcing of raw materials, particularly since a considerable portion of scrap substitutes comes from regions of the world that historically have experienced greater political turmoil. Our highly variable, low-cost structure, combined with our financial strength and liquidity, have allowed us to successfully navigate cyclical, severely depressed steel industry market conditions in the past. In such times, our incentive-based pay system reduces our payroll costs, both hourly and salary, which helps to offset lower selling prices. Our pay-for-performance system that is closely tied to our levels 33 of production also allows us to keep our highly experienced workforce intact and to continue operating our facilities when some of our competitors with greater fixed costs are forced to shut down some of their facilities. Because we use EAFs to produce our steel, we can easily vary our production levels to match short-term changes in demand, unlike our blast furnace-based integrated competitors. Evaluating Our Operating Performance We report our results of operations in three segments: steel mills, steel products and raw materials. Most of the steel we produce in our mills is sold to outside customers (78% in 2022 and 79% in 2021), but a significant percentage is used internally by many of the facilities in our steel products segment (22% in 2022 and 21% in 2021). We begin measuring our performance by comparing our net sales, both in total and by individual segment, during a reporting period with our net sales in the corresponding period in the prior year. In doing so, we focus on changes in and the reasons for such changes in the two key variables that have the greatest influence on our net sales: average sales price per ton during the period and total tons shipped to outside customers. We also focus on both dollar and percentage changes in gross margins, which are key drivers of our profitability, and the reasons for such changes. There are many factors from period to period that can affect our gross margins. One consistent area of focus for us is changes in “metal margins,” which is the difference between the selling price of steel and the cost of scrap and scrap substitutes. Increases or decreases in the cost of scrap and scrap substitutes that are not offset by changes in the selling price of steel can quickly compress or expand our margins and reduce or increase our profitability. Changes in marketing, administrative and other expenses, particularly profit sharing and other variable incentive-based payment costs, can have a material effect on our results of operations for a reporting period as well. These costs vary significantly from period to period as they are based upon changes in our pre-tax earnings and other profitability metrics that are a reflection of our pay-for-performance system that is closely tied to our levels of production. Evaluating Our Financial Condition We evaluate our financial condition each reporting period by focusing primarily on the amounts of and reasons for changes in cash provided by operating activities, our current ratio, the turnover rate of our accounts receivable and inventories, the amounts of and reasons for changes in cash used in or provided by investing activities (including projected capital expenditures) and financing activities and our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments position at period end. We believe that our conservative financial practices have served us well in the past and are serving us well today. As a result, we believe our financial position remains strong. Comparison of 2022 to 2021 Results of Operations Nucor reported consolidated net earnings of $7.61 billion, or $28.79 per diluted share, in 2022, making it the most profitable year in the Company’s history. This is the second year in a row that Nucor has reported record annual earnings, surpassing the previous record of $6.83 billion, or $23.16 per diluted share, in 2021. The increase in earnings in 2022 as compared to 2021 was primarily driven by the increase in profitability of the steel products segment. The steel products segment set a new record for earnings in 2022, as the earnings before income taxes and noncontrolling interests for the segment more than tripled the previous record set in 2021. Average sales price per ton increased significantly for the segment in 2022 as compared to 2021 and volumes increased slightly. The largest driver of the increase in the segment’s earnings was the increased profitability of our joist and deck businesses, due to strong demand in nonresidential construction markets. 34 Following a record-setting 2021, the earnings of the steel mills segment decreased in 2022 as the segment’s volumes decreased in 2022 as compared to 2021. The primary driver for the decrease in steel mill segment earnings was the decreased profitability of our sheet mills in 2022 compared to 2021, which more than offset the improved profitability of our bar, structural and plate mills over the same period. After experiencing increases in higher average selling prices in each quarter of 2021, average selling prices for the sheet group decreased in every quarter of 2022 due to some softening in demand for sheet products and increased imports, particularly in the first half of 2022. Average selling prices for the bar, structural and plate mills improved in 2022 as compared to 2021, though volumes decreased. Scrap and scrap substitute costs were volatile during 2022, as the conflict in Ukraine disrupted supply chains and caused raw material prices to spike in the first half of the year, but dissipated during the second half of 2022. The steel mills segment’s earnings also was decreased due to higher conversion costs , as utilization rates decreased for the segment in 2022 (77% in 2022 compared to 94% in 2021) , and increased electricity, natural gas, labor and consumables (e.g., alloys, electrodes) costs caused by inflation. Despite the decrease in the earnings of the steel mills segment in 2022 as compared to the segment’s record-setting 2021, we believe that 2022 was another strong year for the steel mills segment. Earnings in the raw materials segment decreased in 2022 as compared to 2021. Our DJJ brokerage and scrap processing had decreased profitability in 2022 as compared to 2021 that was driven by lower volumes. Our DRI facilities experienced increased profitability in 2022 as compared to 2021, as the conflict in Ukraine that began in the first quarter of 2022 disrupted global supply chains, resulting in volatility and higher selling prices for raw materials, particularly in the first half of the year. Also contributing to the decrease in raw materials segment earnings in 2022 as compared to 2021 was the $96.0 million write-off of our leasehold interest in unproved oil and gas properties in the fourth quarter of 2022 when the Company’s management decided that it was unlikely to develop the leasehold interests in the future. In 2021, the Company wrote off $42.0 million related to a portion of the leasehold interests in unproved oil and gas properties that the Company decided it would not commence development by the contractually stated deadline for that portion. (Refer to Note 7 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to these write-offs). The following discussion will provide greater quantitative and qualitative analysis of Nucor’s performance in 2022 as compared to 2021. Net Sales Net sales to external customers by segment for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 were as follows (in thousands): Net sales for 2022 increased 14% from the prior year. Average sales price per ton increased 26% from $1,292 in 2021 to $1,626 in 2022. Total tons shipped to outside customers decreased 10% from 28,247,000 tons in 2021 to 25,524,000 tons in 2022. In the steel mills segment, sales tons for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 were as follows (in thousands): 35 Net sales for the steel mills segment were comparable in 2022 to the prior year due to an 11% increase in the average sales price per ton, from $1,195 in 2021 to $1,324 in 2022, as well as a 10% decrease in tons sold to outside customers. Average selling prices for our bar, structural, and plate mills increased substantially in 2022 as compared to 2021. Outside sales tonnage for the steel products segment for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 was as follows (in thousands): Net sales for the steel products segment increased 55% in 2022 from the prior year due to a 54% increase in the average sales price per ton, from $1,954 in 2021 to $3,003 in 2022, as well as a 1% increase in volumes. Net sales for the raw materials segment decreased 13% in 2022 from the prior year primarily due to decreased volumes at DJJ’s brokerage and scrap processing operations. In 2022, approximately 91% of outside sales for the raw materials segment were from the brokerage operations of DJJ, and approximately 3% of outside sales were from the scrap processing operations of DJJ (90% and 8%, respectively, in 2021). Gross Margins In 2022, Nucor recorded gross margins of $12.50 billion (30%), which was an increase from $11.03 billion (30%) in 2021: Partially offsetting the significant rise in conversion costs was increased metal margins. Metal margin is the difference between the selling price of steel and the cost of scrap and scrap substitutes. The average scrap and scrap substitute cost per gross ton used increased 5% from $469 in 2021 to $492 in 2022, which was more than offset by the increase in average selling price. 36 Scrap prices are driven by the global supply and demand for scrap and other iron-based raw materials used to make steel. Scrap prices were volatile during 2022 and decreased significantly late in the year. So far in 2023, scrap prices are more stable. Marketing, Administrative and Other Expenses A major component of marketing, administrative and other expenses is profit sharing and other incentive compensation costs. These costs, which are based upon and fluctuate with Nucor’s financial performance, increased from 2021 to 2022 due to the increased profitability of the Company. In 2022, profit sharing costs consisted of $994.2 million, including the Company’s matching contribution, made to the Company’s Profit Sharing and Retirement Savings Plan for qualified employees ($869.9 million in 2021). Other employee bonus costs also fluctuate based on Nucor’s achievement of certain financial performance goals, including achieving record earnings, and comparisons of Nucor’s financial performance to peers in the steel industry and other companies. Stock-based compensation included in marketing, administrative and other expenses decreased by 5% to $58.8 million in 2022 compared with $61.7 million in 2021 and includes costs associated with vesting of stock awards granted in prior years. Equity in (Earnings) Losses of Unconsolidated Affiliates Equity in (earnings) losses of unconsolidated affiliates was ($10.7) million in 2022 and ($103.1) million in 2021. The decrease in equity method investment earnings from 2021 to 2022 was primarily due to the decreased results of NuMit and NJSM. Losses and Impairments of Assets In 2020, Nucor recorded losses on assets of $483.5 million related to our equity method investment in Duferdofin Nucor S.r.l. (“Duferdofin Nucor”). Nucor also recorded impairment charges in 2020 of $103.2 million related to certain inventory and long-lived assets in the steel mills segment, and $27.0 million related to the write-down of our unproved natural gas well assets included in the raw materials segment. During 2021, Nucor recorded a non-cash loss on assets of $42.0 million related to our leasehold interest in unproved oil and natural gas properties in the raw materials segment. Also included in the 2021 results were losses on assets of $20.2 million in the steel products segment. During 2022, Nucor recorded an impairment charge of $96.0 million related to our leasehold interest in unproved oil and natural gas properties in the raw materials segment. Nucor also recorded an impairment charge of $5.8 million related to machinery and equipment in the steel products segment. 37 Interest Expense (Income) Net interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 was as follows (in thousands): Interest expense increased in 2022 compared to 2021 due to higher average interest rates on debt and an increase in average debt outstanding. Interest income increased in 2022 compared to 2021 due to an increase in average investments and average interest rates on investments. Earnings Before Income Taxes and Noncontrolling Interests The following table presents earnings before income taxes and noncontrolling interests by segment for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 (in thousands). The changes between periods were driven by the quantitative and qualitative factors previously discussed. Noncontrolling Interests Noncontrolling interests represent the income attributable to the noncontrolling partners of Nucor’s joint ventures, primarily Nucor–Yamato, of which Nucor owns 51% and CSI, of which Nucor owns 51%. The 60% increase in earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests in 2022 as compared to 2021 was due to the increased earnings of Nucor–Yamato and the acquisition of CSI in February 2022. Driving the significant increase in earnings at Nucor-Yamato in 2022 was higher average selling prices, volumes and metal margins. Provision for Income Taxes The Company’s effective tax rate in 2022 was 21.13% compared with 22.59% in 2021. The 2022 effective tax rate included a net tax benefit of $76.4 million (-0.75%) for state tax credits and a net tax benefit of $88.0 million (-0.86%) related to a change in the valuation allowance of a state deferred tax asset. The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) is currently examining Nucor’s 2015, 2019, and 2020 federal income tax returns. Nucor has concluded U.S. federal income tax matters for tax years through 2014, and for the tax years 2016 and 2018. The tax years 2017 and 2021 remain open to examination by the IRS. The 2015 and 2018 Canadian income tax returns for Harris Steel Group Inc. and certain related affiliates are currently under examination by the Canada Revenue Agency. The tax years 2016 through 2021 remain open to examination by other major taxing jurisdictions to which Nucor is subject (primarily Canada and other state and local jurisdictions). 38 Net Earnings and Return on Equity Nucor reported net earnings of $7.61 billion, or $28.79 per diluted share, in 2022, compared to net earnings of $6.83 billion, or $23.16 per diluted share, in 2021. Net earnings attributable to Nucor stockholders as a percentage of net sales were 18.3% and 18.7% in 2022 and 2021, respectively. Return on average stockholders’ equity was 46.9% and 55.0% in 2022 and 2021, respectively. Liquidity and Capital Resources We believe our financial strength is a key strategic advantage among domestic steel producers, particularly during recessionary business cycles. We carry the highest credit ratings of any steel producer headquartered in North America, with an A- long-term rating from Standard and Poor’s, a Baa1 long-term rating from Moody’s and we have recently received an A- long-term rating from Fitch. Our credit ratings are dependent, however, on many factors, both qualitative and quantitative, and are subject to change at any time. The disclosure of our credit ratings is made to enhance investors’ understanding of our sources of liquidity and the impact of our credit ratings on our cost of funds. Nucor’s cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and restricted cash and cash equivalents position remained strong at $4.94 billion as of December 31, 2022, compared with $2.76 billion as of December 31, 2021. Approximately $1.04 billion and $540.3 million of the cash and cash equivalents position as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, was held by our majority-owned joint ventures. Cash flows provided by operating activities provide us with a significant source of liquidity. When needed, we have external short-term financing sources available, including the issuance of commercial paper and borrowings under our bank credit facilities. We also issue long-term debt securities from time-to-time. On March 11, 2022, Nucor completed the issuance and sale of $550.0 million aggregate principal amount of its 3.125% Notes due 2032 (the “2032 Notes”) and $550.0 million aggregate principal amount of its 3.850% Notes due 2052 (the “2052 Notes” and, together with the 2032 Notes, the “2032/2052 Notes”). The net proceeds from the issuance and sale of the 2032/2052 Notes were used along with cash on hand to redeem all of the outstanding $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 4.125% Notes due 2022 (the “2022 Notes”) and $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 4.000% Notes due 2023 (the “2023 Notes”) pursuant to the terms of the indenture governing the 2022 Notes and the 2023 Notes. On April 25, 2022, Nucor redeemed all $500.0 million aggregate principal amount outstanding of the 2023 Notes using a portion of the net proceeds from the issuance and sale of the 2032/2052 Notes. On August 15, 2022, Nucor redeemed all $600.0 million aggregate principal amount outstanding of the 2022 Notes using the remaining portion of the net proceeds from the issuance and sale of the 2032/2052 Notes. On May 23, 2022, Nucor completed the issuance and sale of $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of its 3.950% Notes due 2025 (the “2025 Notes”) and $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of its 4.300% Notes due 2027 (the “2027 Notes”). In August 2021, Nucor became an obligor with respect to $197.0 million in 40-year variable-rate Green Bonds to partially fund the capital costs , in particular the expenditures associated with pollution prevention and control (including waste recycling and waste reduction), of the construction of our plate mill located in Brandenburg, Kentucky. Proceeds of the Green Bonds are held on Nucor’s balance sheet as restricted cash and cash equivalents until they are utilized in connection with the construction of the Brandenburg facility. On November 5, 2021, Nucor completed an offer to exchange its existing 2.979% Notes due 2055 (the “2055 Notes”) that were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) for a like principal amount of notes having terms substantially identical as the 2055 Notes and that are registered under the Securities Act. 39 In November 2021, Nucor amended and restated its revolving credit facility to increase the borrowing capacity from $1.50 billion to $1.75 billion and to extend its maturity date to November 5, 2026. Our revolving credit facility remains undrawn. We expect to continue to have adequate access to the capital markets at a reasonable cost of funds for liquidity purposes when needed. Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources The current ratio, which is calculated by dividing current assets by current liabilities, was 3.4 at year-end 2022 compared with 2.5 at year-end 2021. The current ratio was impacted by higher cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2022. In addition, $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of our debt outstanding was included in the current portion of long-term debt at December 31, 2021 and was paid off during 2022. In 2022, total accounts receivable turned approximately every five weeks and inventories turned approximately every 10 weeks. These ratios compare with accounts receivable turnover of approximately every four weeks and inventory turnover of approximately every 10 weeks for 2021. Funds provided by operations, cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, restricted cash and cash equivalents and new borrowings under existing credit facilities are expected to be adequate to meet future capital expenditures, current debt maturities and working capital requirements for existing operations for at least the next 24 months. We also believe we have adequate access to capital markets for liquidity purposes. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have a simple capital structure with no off-balance sheet arrangements or relationships with unconsolidated special purpose entities that we believe could have a material impact on our financial condition or liquidity. Capital Allocation Strategy We believe that our conservative financial practices have served us well in the past and are serving us well today. Nucor’s financial strength allows for a consistent, balanced approach to capital allocation throughout the business cycle. Nucor’s highest capital allocation priority is to invest in our business for profitable growth over the long term. We have historically done this by investing to optimize our existing operations, initiate greenfield expansions and make acquisitions. Our second priority is to return capital to our stockholders through cash dividends and share repurchases. We intend to return a minimum of 40% of our net earnings to our stockholders through dividends and share repurchases, while maintaining a debt-to-capital ratio that supports a strong investment grade credit rating. Nucor returned approximately $3.30 billion in capital to its stockholders in the form of base dividends and share repurchases in 2022. 40 Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities was $10.07 billion in 2022 as compared to $6.23 billion in 2021. This increase of $3.84 billion was primarily driven by changes in operating assets and liabilities and an increase in net earnings. Net earnings increased $957.3 million over the prior year, which included $101.8 million of non-cash losses and impairments of assets ($62.2 million of non-cash losses and impairments of assets in 2021). The changes in operating assets and liabilities resulted in a net inflow of $692.7 million in 2022 as compared to a net outflow of $1.86 billion in 2021. The changes in working capital were primarily due to decreases in inventory and accounts receivable from year-end 2021 to year-end 2022. Accounts receivable at the end of 2022 decreased from the prior year-end resulting in a cash inflow of $501.2 million due to a decrease in the sales volumes and price per ton compared to the same prior year period. From year-end 2021 to year-end 2022, inventories decreased resulting in an inflow of $962.4 million due to a 17% decrease in inventory tons. This compares to inventories at year-end 2021 increasing from year-end 2020 and resulting in a $2.31 billion cash outflow. Salaries, wages and related accruals increased due to higher current year profit sharing and incentive compensation accruals. The increase in federal income taxes receivable is mainly a function of the timing of federal tax payments. Accounts payable decreased due to the decreases in inventory mentioned previously. Investing Activities Our business is capital intensive; therefore, cash used in investing activities primarily represents capital expenditures for the construction of new facilities, the expansion and upgrading of existing facilities and the acquisition of other companies. Cash used in investing activities in 2022 was $5.70 billion as compared to $2.87 billion in 2021. The increase in cash used in investing activities was primarily due to $3.55 billion used to fund acquisitions, including, primarily the purchase of CHI in June 2022 and the purchase of a 51% controlling ownership in CSI in February 2022. Cash used for capital expenditures increased by $325.9 million to $1.95 billion in 2022 as compared to $1.62 billion in 2021. The increase in capital expenditures is primarily due to the plate mill under construction in Kentucky, the sheet mill expansion in Indiana and the sheet mill under construction in West Virginia. Capital expenditures for 2023 are estimated to be approximately $3.0 billion as compared to $2.0 billion in 2022. The projects that we anticipate will have the largest capital expenditures in 2023 are the plate mill under construction in Kentucky, the sheet mill expansions in Kentucky and Indiana and the sheet mill under construction in West Virginia. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities during 2022 was $2.51 billion as compared to $3.60 billion in 2021. The primary uses of cash were: (i) stock repurchases of $2.76 billion in 2022 as compared to $3.28 billion in 2021, a decrease of $513.5 million; (ii) repayments of long-term debt of $1.11 billion in 2022 (none in 2021); and (iii) distributions to noncontrolling interests of $332.3 million in 2022 as compared to $150.7 million in 2021, an increase of $181.6 million. The primary source of cash offsetting these uses of cash was proceeds from long-term debt, net of discount to the public, of $2.09 billion in 2022 as compared to $197.0 million in 2021, an increase of $1.89 billion. In 2022, Nucor issued $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 2025 Notes, $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 2027 Notes, $550.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 2032 Notes and $550.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 2052 Notes. On April 25, 2022, Nucor redeemed all $500.0 million aggregate principal amount outstanding of the 2023 Notes. On August 15, 2022, Nucor redeemed all $600.0 million aggregate principal amount outstanding of the 2022 Notes. Our revolving credit facility is undrawn and was amended and restated in November 2021 to increase the borrowing capacity from $1.50 billion to $1.75 billion and to extend the maturity date to November 5, 2026. The revolving credit facility includes only one financial covenant, which is a limit of 60% on the ratio of funded debt to total capital. In addition, the undrawn revolving credit facility contains customary non-financial covenants, including a limit on Nucor’s ability to pledge the Company’s assets and a limit on consolidations, mergers and sales of assets. As of December 31, 2022, Nucor’s funded debt to total capital ratio was 25%, and Nucor was in compliance with all covenants under the credit facility. 41 Market Risk Nucor’s largest exposure to market risk is in our steel mills and steel products segments. Our utilization rates for the steel mills and steel products facilities for the fourth quarter of 2022 were 70% and 68%, respectively. A significant portion of our steel mills and steel products segments’ sales are into the commercial, industrial and municipal construction markets. Our largest single customer in 2022 represented approximately 5% of sales and consistently pays within terms. In the raw materials segment, we are exposed to price fluctuations related to the purchase of scrap steel, pig iron and iron ore. Our exposure to market risk is mitigated by the fact that our steel mills use a significant portion of the products of this segment and the prices we receive for our steel and steel products tend to be correlated with the prices we pay for these materials. Nucor’s tax-exempt industrial development revenue bonds (“IDRBs”) have variable interest rates that are adjusted weekly. These IDRBs represented 20% of Nucor’s long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 2022. The remaining 80% of Nucor’s long-term debt is at fixed rates. Future changes in interest rates are not expected to significantly impact earnings. From time to time, Nucor makes use of interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risk. As of December 31, 2022, there were no such contracts outstanding. Nucor’s investment practice is to invest in securities that are highly liquid with short maturities. As a result, we do not expect changes in interest rates to have a significant impact on the value of our investment securities recorded as short-term investments. Nucor also uses derivative financial instruments from time to time to partially manage its exposure to price risk related to purchases of natural gas used in the production process, as well as scrap, copper and aluminum purchased for resale to its customers. In addition, Nucor uses forward foreign exchange contracts from time to time to hedge cash flows associated with certain assets and liabilities, firm commitments and anticipated transactions. Nucor generally does not enter into derivative instruments for any purpose other than hedging the cash flows associated with specific volumes of commodities that will be purchased and processed or sold in future periods and hedging the exposures related to changes in the fair value of outstanding fixed-rate debt instruments and foreign currency transactions. Nucor recognizes all derivative instruments in the consolidated balance sheets at fair value. The Company is exposed to foreign currency risk primarily through its operations in Canada, Europe and Mexico. We periodically use derivative contracts to mitigate the risk of currency fluctuations. Dividends Nucor has increased its base cash dividend every year since it began paying dividends in 1973. Nucor paid aggregate dividends of $2.00 per share in 2022, compared with aggregate dividends of $1.62 per share in 2021. In December 2022, the Board of Directors increased the regular quarterly cash dividend on Nucor’s common stock to $0.51 per share. Nucor returned approximately $3.30 billion in capital to its stockholders in the form of base dividends and share repurchases in 2022. In February 2023, the Board of Directors declared Nucor’s 200 th consecutive quarterly cash dividend of $0.51 per share payable on May 11, 2023 to stockholders of record as of March 31, 2023. 42 Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments The following table sets forth our contractual obligations and other commercial commitments as of December 31, 2022 for the periods presented (in thousands): Note: In addition to the amounts shown in the table above, $141.7 million of unrecognized tax benefits have been recorded as liabilities, and we are uncertain as to if or when such amounts may be settled. Related to these unrecognized tax benefits, we have also recorded a liability for potential penalties and interest of $26.9 million at December 31, 2022. Outlook The profitability of the steel mills segment is expected to increase in the first quarter of 2023 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2022 due to higher margins and volumes, with the largest improvement expected to occur at our sheet mills. Within the steel products segment, we expect continued strong profitability in the first quarter of 2023, with some decrease expected from the fourth quarter of 2022 due to seasonally slower construction activity and some reductions in realized pricing. Overall, we expect first quarter 2023 steel products segment earnings to be higher than the first quarter of 2022. In the raw materials segment, excluding the impact of the impairment charge recorded in the fourth quarter of 2022, we expect increased profitability compared to the fourth quarter of 2022 due to higher volumes at our DRI facilities and scrap recycling and brokerage operations. On a combined basis, the operating income during the first quarter of 2023 from our three business segments is expected to exceed that of the fourth quarter of 2022. However, we expect consolidated net earnings to decrease compared to the fourth quarter of 2022 due to intercompany eliminations in the first quarter of 2023 and the absence of state tax benefits that were recorded in the fourth quarter of 2022. 43 Capital expenditures are currently projected to be approximately $3.0 billion in 2023 and, as we have in the past, we intend to allocate capital to investments that advance our strategy to grow the core and expand beyond, keeping Nucor in a position of strength well into the future. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the year. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to the valuation allowances for receivables, the carrying value of non-current assets and reserves for environmental obligations and income taxes. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Accordingly, actual costs could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. The Company records any amount required to reduce the carrying value of inventory to net realizable value as a charge to cost of products sold. Scrap and scrap substitute costs are a very significant component of the raw material, semi-finished and finished product inventory balances. The vast majority of the Company’s inventory is recorded on the first-in, first-out method. Production costs are applied to semi-finished and finished product inventory from the approximate period in which they are produced. Long-Lived Asset Impairments We evaluate our property, plant and equipment and finite-lived intangible assets for potential impairment on an individual asset basis or at the lowest level asset grouping for which cash flows can be independently identified. Asset impairments are assessed whenever circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of those productive assets could exceed their projected undiscounted cash flows. In developing estimated values for assets that we currently use in our operations, we utilize judgments and assumptions of future undiscounted cash flows that the assets will produce. When it is determined that an impairment exists, the related assets are written down to estimated fair market value. Management determined that no long-lived asset impairment testing was required in 2022 and 2021. Certain long-lived asset groupings were tested for impairment during the fourth quarter of 2020. Undiscounted cash flows for each asset grouping were estimated using management’s long-range estimates of market conditions associated with each asset grouping over the estimated useful life of the principal asset within the group. Our undiscounted cash flow analysis indicated that, other than the groupings discussed below, the tested long-lived asset groupings were recoverable as of December 31, 2020. Steel Mills Segment Asset Impairments In 2020, Nucor recorded non-cash impairment charges totaling $103.2 million related to certain inventory and long-lived assets, which primarily related to our Castrip sheet mill operations. Due to the advancements in the capabilities at our new cold mill and galvanizing line we have under construction at Nucor Steel Arkansas, we believe the value of the technology and process has diminished for Nucor. As such, the existing Castrip assets are not expected to be materially utilized going forward. These charges are included in losses and impairments of assets in the consolidated statement of earnings for the year ended December 31, 2020. 44 Raw Materials Segment Asset Impairments In 2020, regulatory authorities in Colorado adopted new rules that became effective January 2021. One of these rules increased drilling setback distances. In the fourth quarter of 2020, Nucor determined a triggering event had occurred, as we do not expect to be able to access the full extent of the resources in the ground, and performed an impairment analysis. As a result, Nucor recorded a $27.0 million non-cash impairment charge related to the write-down of our leasehold interest in unproved oil and gas properties. This charge is included in losses and impairments of assets in the consolidated statement of earnings for the year ended December 31, 2020. In the second quarter of 2021, Nucor decided that it would not develop a portion of its unproved oil and natural gas properties (“Portion A”) within the contractually specified time period related to Portion A. As a result of this decision, the Company will forfeit its leasehold rights for Portion A. The Company recorded a charge of $42.0 million to write off the value of Portion A that is included in losses and impairments of assets in the consolidated statement of earnings for the year ended December 31, 2021. The decision not to develop Portion A was heavily influenced by the approaching deadline to commence development combined with Portion A’s expected near-term profitability not achieving management’s desired returns relative to the cost of development. A significant portion of the Company’s remaining leasehold interest in unproved oil and natural gas properties are held by production. In the fourth quarter of 2022, the carrying value of the remaining portions of unproved oil and natural gas properties of $96.0 million was written off and is included in losses and impairments of assets in the consolidated statement of earnings for the year ended at December 31, 2022. Goodwill and Intangibles Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and whenever events or circumstances change that would make it more likely than not that an impairment may have occurred. We perform our annual impairment analysis as of the first day of the fourth quarter each year. The evaluation of impairment involves comparing the current estimated fair value of each reporting unit to the recorded value, including goodwill. When appropriate, Nucor performs a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. For certain reporting units, it is necessary to perform a quantitative analysis. In these instances, a discounted cash flow model is used to determine the current estimated fair value of these reporting units. Significant assumptions used to determine the fair value of each reporting unit as part of our annual testing (and any required interim testing) include: (i) expected cash flow for the five-year period following the testing date (including market share, sales volumes and prices, raw materials and other costs to produce and estimated capital needs); (ii) an estimated terminal value using a terminal year growth rate determined based on the growth prospects of the reporting unit; (iii) a discount rate based on management’s best estimate of the after-tax weighted-average cost of capital; and (iv) a probability-weighted scenario approach by which varying cash flows are assigned to certain scenarios based on the likelihood of occurrence. Management considers historical and anticipated future results, general economic and market conditions, the impact of planned business and operational strategies and all available information at the time the fair values of its reporting units are estimated. Those estimates and judgments may or may not ultimately prove appropriate. Our fourth quarter 2022 annual goodwill impairment analysis did not result in an impairment charge. Management does not believe that future impairment of these reporting units is probable. However, the performance of certain businesses that comprise our reporting units requires continued improvement. An increase of approximately 50 basis points in the discount rate, a critical assumption in which a minor change can have a significant impact on the estimated fair value, would not result in an impairment charge. See Note 8 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the results of the Company’s 2022 annual goodwill impairment analysis. 45 Nucor will continue to monitor operating results within all reporting units throughout 20 2 3 in an effort to determine if events and circumstances require further interim impairment testing. Otherwise, all reporting units will again be subject to the required annual qualitative and/or quantitative impairment test during our fourth quarter of 20 2 3 . Changes in the judgments and estimates underlying our analysis of goodwill for possible impairment, including expected future operating cash flows and discount rate, could decrease the estimated fair value of our reporting units in the future and could result in an impairment of goodwill. Equity Method Investments Investments in joint ventures in which Nucor shares control over the financial and operating decisions but in which Nucor is not the primary beneficiary are accounted for under the equity method. Each of the Company’s equity method investments is subject to a review for impairment if, and when, circumstances indicate that a decline in value below its carrying amount may have occurred. Examples of such circumstances include, but are not limited to, a significant deterioration in the earnings performance or business prospects of the investee; missed financial projections; a significant adverse change in the regulatory, tax, economic or technological environment of the investee; a significant adverse change in the general market condition of either the geographic area or the industry in which the investee operates; and recurring negative cash flows from operations. When management considers the decline to be other than temporary, the Company would write down the related investment to its estimated fair market value. An other-than-temporary decline in carrying value is determined to have occurred when, in management’s judgment, a decline in fair value below carrying value is of such length of time and/or severity that it is considered long-term. In the event that an impairment review is necessary, we calculate the estimated fair value of our equity method investments using a probability-weighted multiple-scenario income approach. Management’s analysis includes three discounted cash flow scenarios (best case, base case and recessionary case), which contain forecasted near-term cash flows under each scenario. Generally, (i) the best case scenario contains estimates of future results ranging from slightly higher than recent operating performance to levels that are consistent with historical operating and financial performance; (ii) the base case scenario contains estimates of future results ranging from generally in line with recent operating performance to levels that are more conservative than historical operating and financial performance; and (iii) the recessionary case scenario contains estimates of future results which include limited growth resulting only from operational cost improvements and limited benefits of new higher-value product offerings. Management determines the probability that each cash flow scenario will come to fruition based on the specific facts and circumstances of each of the preceding scenarios, with the base case typically receiving the majority of the weighting. Key assumptions used to determine the fair value of our equity method investments include: (i) expected cash flow for the six-year period following the testing date (including market share, sales volumes and prices, costs to produce and estimated capital needs); (ii) an estimated terminal value using a terminal year growth rate determined based on the growth prospects of the investment; (iii) a discount rate based on management’s best estimate of the after-tax weighted-average cost of capital; and (iv) a probability-weighted scenario approach by which varying cash flows are assigned to certain scenarios based on the likelihood of occurrence. While the assumptions that most significantly affect the fair value determination include projected revenues, metal margins and discount rate, the assumptions are often interdependent, and no single factor predominates in determining the estimated fair value. Management considers historical and anticipated future results, general economic and market conditions, the impact of planned business and operational strategies and all available information at the time the fair values of its investments are estimated. Those estimates and judgments may or may not ultimately prove appropriate. Nucor reviews its equity method investments for impairment if and when circumstances indicate that a decline in fair value below their carrying amounts may have occurred. There were no triggering events that caused management to pursue additional testing of our equity method investments in 2022. 46 Nucor determined that a triggering event occurred in the first quarter of 2020 with respect to its equity method investment in Duferdofin Nucor due to adverse developments in the joint venture’s commercial outlook, which w ere exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic, all of which negatively impacted the joint venture’s strategic direction. After completing its impairment assessment, Nucor determined that the carrying amount exceeded its estimated fair value and the impairment condition was considered to be other than temporary. Therefore, Nucor recorded a $250.0 million impairment charge in the first quarter of 2020.  The assumption s that most significantly affected the fair value determination included projected cash flows and the discount rate. The Company-specific inputs for measuring fair value are considered “Level 3” or unobservable inputs that are not corroborated by market data under applicable fair value authoritative guidance, as quoted market prices are not available. Throughout 2020, additional capital contributions were made by the Company to Duferdofin Nucor that were immediately impaired. These additional capital contributions resulted in $5.0 million, $6.6 million and $25.4 million impairment charges against our investment in Duferdofin Nucor in the second, third and fourth quarters of 2020, respectively. Also, in the fourth quarter of 2020, Nucor reclassified into earnings, $158.6 million of cumulative foreign currency translation losses on our investment in Duferdofin Nucor.  In 2020, total impairment charges, including the charge associated with forgiving and outstanding note receivable, related to our investment in Duferdofin Nucor were approximately $483.5 million. These non-cash impairment charges are included in the steel mills segment and in losses and impairments of assets in the consolidated statement of earnings for the year ended December 31, 2020. Income Taxes We utilize the liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under the liability method, deferred taxes are determined based on the temporary differences between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities using tax rates expected to be in effect during the years in which the basis differences reverse. A valuation allowance is recorded when it is more likely than not that some of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We recognize the effect of income tax positions only if those positions are more likely than not of being sustained. Potential accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits within operations are recognized as a component of interest expense and other expenses. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements made in this report, or in other public filings, press releases, or other written or oral communications made by Nucor, which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which we expect will or may occur in the future and may impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The words “anticipate,” “believe,” “expect,” “intend,” “project,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “could” and similar expressions are intended to identify those forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements reflect the Company’s best judgment based on current information, and, although we base these statements on circumstances that we believe to be reasonable when made, there can be no assurance that future events will not affect the accuracy of such forward-looking information. As such, the forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results may vary materially from the projected results and expectations discussed in this report. Factors that might cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (1) competitive pressure on sales and pricing, including pressure from imports and substitute materials; (2) U.S. and foreign trade policies affecting steel imports or exports; (3) the sensitivity of the results of our operations to general market conditions, and in particular, prevailing market steel prices and changes in the supply and cost of raw materials, including pig iron, iron ore and scrap steel; (4) the availability and cost of electricity and natural gas which could negatively affect our cost of steel production or result in a delay or cancellation of existing or future drilling within our natural gas drilling programs; (5) critical equipment failures and business interruptions; (6) market demand for steel products, which, in the case of many of our products, is driven by the level of nonresidential construction activity in the United States; (7) impairment in the recorded value of inventory, equity investments, fixed assets, goodwill or other long-lived assets; (8) 47 uncertainties and volatility surrounding the global economy, including excess world capacity for steel production, inflation and interest rate changes ; (9) fluctuations in currency conversion rates ; (10) significant changes in laws or government regulations affecting environmental compliance, including legislation and regulations that result in greater regulation of greenhouse gas emissions that could increase our energy costs, capital expenditures and operating costs or cause one or more of our permits to be revoked or make it more difficult to obtain permit modifications; (11) the cyclical nature of the steel industry; (12) capital investments and their impact on our performance; (13) our safety performance; (14) our ability to integrate businesses we acquire; (1 5 ) the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic , any variants of the virus , and any other similar pandemic or public health situation ; and (1 6 ) the risks discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this report. Caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements included in this report. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements except as may be required by law. In evaluating forward-looking statements, these risks and uncertainties should be considered, together with the other risks described from time to time in our reports and other filings with the SEC. 48