********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

You should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in evaluating the Company and its common stock. Any of the following risks, or other risks or uncertainties not presently known or currently deemed immaterial, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition, and could, in turn, impact the trading price of the Company’s common stock. Risks Relating to the Company’s Businesses and Operations The Company Operates in a Highly Competitive Business Environment, and its Success Depends on its Ability to Compete Effectively, Including by Responding to Evolving Technologies and Changes in Consumer and Customer Behavior. The Company faces significant competition, including from other providers of news, information, entertainment and real estate-related products and services. See “Business Overview” for more information regarding competition within each of the Company’s segments. This competition continues to intensify as a result of changes in technologies, including developments in generative AI, platforms and business models and corresponding changes in consumer and customer behavior. For example, alternative content distribution platforms and media channels have increased the choices available to consumers for content consumption and adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, demand and pricing for the Company’s newspapers, subscription video services and other products and services. Consumption of the Company’s content on third-party platforms reduces its control over how its content is discovered, displayed and monetized and may affect its ability to attract, retain and monetize consumers directly and compete effectively. While the Company has entered into agreements with certain large platforms to license its content for use by or on such platforms in exchange for significant payments, not all of these agreements have been renewed and there is no guarantee that existing agreements will be renewed on terms favorable to the Company or at all. These trends and developments have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the Company’s circulation and subscription, advertising and licensing revenue and may increase subscriber acquisition, retention and other costs. Technological developments have also increased competition in other ways. For example, direct-to-consumer digital video services are more prevalent and attractive for many consumers as internet streaming capabilities have enabled the disaggregation of content delivery from the ownership of network infrastructure. Other digital platforms and technologies, such as user-generated content platforms and self-publishing tools, combined, in some cases, with the wide availability of sophisticated search engines and public sources of free or relatively inexpensive information and solutions, have also reduced the effort and expense of locating, gathering and disseminating data and producing and distributing certain types of content on a wide scale, allowing additional third parties to compete with the Company, often at a lower cost, and potentially diminishing the perceived value of the Company’s offerings. Recent developments in AI, such as generative AI, may accelerate or exacerbate these effects. Additional digital distribution channels, such as online retailers and digital marketplaces that have significant scale and leverage, have also challenged, and continue to challenge, the Company’s business models, particularly its traditional book publishing model, and any failure to adapt to or manage changes made by these channels could adversely affect sales volume, pricing and/or costs. In order to compete effectively, the Company must differentiate its brands and their associated products and services, respond to new technologies, distribution channels and platforms, develop new products and services and consistently anticipate and respond 17 to changes in consumer and customer needs and preferences. The Company relies on brand awareness, reputation and acceptance of its high-quality differentiated content and information, real estate and other products and services, as well as its wide array of digital offerings, in order to retain and grow its audiences, consumers and subscribers. However, consumer preferences change frequently and are difficult to predict, and consumers may place greater value on the convenience and price of content and other products and services than they do on their source, quality or reliability. For example, the use of generative AI technology powered by models that have been trained or grounded on the Company’s content or are able to produce output that contains, is similar to or is based on the Company’s content without permission, attribution or compensation, may reduce audience size and subscriber demand for the Company’s digital products and services, harm existing and potential revenue streams and adversely affect its business and results of operations. Online traffic and product and service purchases are also driven by visibility on digital platforms, and the Company has limited control over changes made by these platforms affecting the visibility of its content and other products and services, which occur frequently. Difficulty managing and adapting to such changes has impeded, and could in the future impede, the Company’s ability to compete effectively by decreasing visits to, and advertiser interest in, its digital offerings, increasing costs if free traffic is replaced with paid traffic and lowering product sales and subscriptions. The Company expects to continue to pursue new strategic initiatives and develop new and enhanced products and services to remain competitive, such as additional streaming features and options, new content aggregation offerings, innovative digital news products and experiences and the continued expansion into new business models and adjacencies at its digital real estate services businesses. The Company may also develop additional products and services that incorporate AI solutions to enhance insights and value for customers and consumers and respond to industry trends. The Company has incurred, and expects to continue to incur, significant costs in connection with these efforts, including costs relating to the initiatives referenced above, as well as other costs to acquire, develop, adopt, upgrade and exploit new and existing technologies and attract and retain employees with the necessary knowledge and skills. There can be no assurance any strategic initiatives, products and services will be successful in the manner or time period or at the cost the Company expects or that it will realize the anticipated benefits it expects. Some of the Company’s current and potential competitors have greater resources, fewer regulatory burdens, better competitive positions in certain areas, greater operating capabilities, greater access to sources of content, data, technology (including AI) or other services or strategic relationships and/or easier access to financing, which may allow them to respond more effectively to changes in technology, consumer and customer needs and preferences and market conditions, including by developing new or enhanced products and services or leveraging new technologies, including generative AI, more quickly or successfully than the Company. Continued consolidation or strategic alliances in certain industries in which the Company operates or otherwise affecting the Company’s businesses may increase these advantages, including through greater scale, financial leverage and/or access to content, data, technology (including AI) and other offerings. If the Company is unable to compete successfully, its business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Macroeconomic and Market Conditions and Other Events Outside the Company’s Control May Adversely Affect the Company’s Business. The Company’s business is subject to risks and uncertainties from events outside its control that impact macroeconomic and market conditions or disrupt its business, including economic weakness, uncertainty or volatility, geopolitical tensions, conflicts or wars, pandemics and other health crises, natural disasters, severe weather events (which may occur with increasing frequency and intensity), hostilities, political or social unrest, terrorism or other similar events. For example, the U.S. and global economies and markets have been, and may in the future be, adversely impacted by inflationary pressures, changes in monetary policy, elevated interest rates, recessionary concerns, geopolitical tensions and conflicts, supply chain disruptions, volatile foreign currency exchange rates, public health conditions and political and social unrest. In fiscal 2024, persistent inflation in home prices and elevated interest rates, in particular, continued to adversely impact the U.S. real estate market and depress real estate lead and transaction volumes and adjacent businesses at the Digital Real Estate Services segment. These and other events or conditions outside the Company’s control have in the past also resulted in, and could in the future lead to, among other things, disruption of the Company’s business, a tightening of, and in some cases more limited access to, the credit and capital markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, lower consumer net worth and a decline in other markets such as energy and commodities, and could, in turn, lead to a broader, prolonged economic downturn. Such downturns have resulted, and could in the future result, in lower advertising expenditures, lower demand for the Company’s products and services, unfavorable changes in the mix of products and services purchased, pricing pressures, a credit ratings downgrade and/or higher borrowing costs and decreased ability of third parties to satisfy their obligations to the Company and have adversely affected, and could in the future adversely affect, the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The Company is particularly exposed to (1) certain Australian business risks because it holds a substantial amount of Australian assets and generated approximately 40% of its fiscal 2024 revenues from Australia and (2) to a lesser extent, business risks relating to the U.K., where it generated approximately 13% of its fiscal 2024 revenues. 18 The Company may also be impacted by other events outside its control, such as recent developments in the U.S. residential real estate industry. Certain brokerages and franchisors, as well as NAR, face class action lawsuits alleging antitrust violations, and the Department of Justice (the “DOJ”) is also seeking to resume its previously settled antitrust investigation into NAR. In March 2024, NAR entered into a settlement agreement to resolve a number of the lawsuits on a nation-wide basis pursuant to which it agreed to a significant monetary payment and certain changes to its rules and practices, including eliminating the cooperative compensation rule, thereby prohibiting REALTOR ® MLSs from publishing buyer broker compensation offers, and requiring buyer brokers who belong to REALTOR ® MLSs to execute written agreements with buyers specifying compensation before touring a home. While the impact of these changes, as well as any additional changes that may arise from any resumed investigation or from other lawsuits, is uncertain and difficult to predict, if they significantly affect how home buyers and sellers engage with agents or negatively impact agent commissions, that could reduce the number of leads and other services agents purchase from the Company’s Move subsidiary and could adversely affect Move’s business and results of operations or require changes to its business model. A Decline in Customer Advertising Expenditures Could Cause the Company’s Revenues and Operating Results to Decline Significantly. The Company derives substantial revenues from the sale of advertising, and its ability to generate advertising revenue depends on a number of factors, including: (1) demand for its products and services, (2) audience fragmentation, (3) digital advertising trends, (4) its ability to offer attractive advertising products and formats, (5) general economic and business conditions, (6) customer demographics, (7) advertising rates and effectiveness and (8) its brand strength and reputation. Demand for the Company’s products and services is evaluated based on a variety of metrics, such as users, visits and engagement for digital offerings, circulation for newspapers and ratings for cable channels, which are used by advertisers to determine the amount of advertising to purchase from the Company and advertising rates. Digital traffic is driven in significant part by visibility on digital platforms, which is impacted by algorithms that are outside the Company’s control and change frequently. Any difficulty or failure in managing changes to these algorithms or accurately measuring demand generally, particularly for digital offerings or across multiple platforms, may adversely impact advertising pricing and spending or, in the case of inaccuracies, the Company’s reputation and relationships with advertisers. Shifting consumer preferences for content consumption toward digital media and the proliferation of devices, technologies, formats and distribution platforms have intensified competition for advertising, increased audience fragmentation and advertising inventory and decreased demand for the Company’s traditional media offerings and their attractiveness to advertisers. The ability of digital advertising to deliver more targeted, measurable results promptly and newer ways of purchasing advertising such as programmatic buying channels have further shifted advertising from traditional media to digital offerings, some of which generate lower rates or are not otherwise as beneficial to the Company. Large digital platforms command a substantial share of the digital advertising market due to their extensive audience reach, data and targeting capabilities and strengths in certain in-demand advertising formats. Certain of these platforms also control significant technologies such as ad servers on which the Company’s digital advertising operations rely, and interruptions or changes affecting these technologies, including the economic terms, could adversely impact advertising revenues and/or operating costs. Evolving standards for the delivery of digital advertising, the development and implementation of technology, standards, regulations, policies and practices and changing consumer expectations that adversely affect the Company’s ability to deliver, target or measure the effectiveness of its advertising, including the phase-out of support for third-party cookies and mobile identifiers, as well as platform and browser requirements, news blocking or bias and new privacy regulations, may also negatively impact digital advertising revenues. As the digital advertising market continues to evolve, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully for advertising budgets or that its digital advertising revenues will be able to offset declines in advertising revenue from traditional media offerings. The Company’s advertising revenue is also affected generally by national and local economic and business conditions, which tend to be cyclical, as well as election and other news cycles. During fiscal 2024, factors such as elevated interest rates and geopolitical tensions and conflicts contributed to continued economic uncertainty, reduced spending by advertisers and lower advertising revenues at certain of the Company’s businesses. Other events outside the Company’s control, including inflationary pressures, recessionary concerns, supply chain disruptions, natural disasters, extreme weather, pandemics and other widespread health crises, political and social unrest or acts of terrorism, have had, and may in the future have, a similar impact. Certain sectors of the economy account for a significant portion of the Company’s advertising revenues, including retail, as well as technology and finance, where advertising spending again decreased in fiscal 2024. Future declines in the economic prospects of these and other advertisers or the economy in general could alter current or prospective advertisers’ spending priorities, which may further reduce the Company’s overall advertising revenue. 19 While the Company has adopted a number of strategies and initiatives to address these challenges, there can be no guarantee that its efforts will be successful. If the Company is unable to demonstrate the continuing value of its various platforms and high-quality content and brands or offer advertisers unique multi-platform advertising programs, its business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The Inability to Obtain and Retain Sports, Entertainment and Other Programming Rights and Content Could Adversely Affect the Revenue of Certain of the Company’s Operating Businesses, and Costs Could Also Increase Upon Renewal. Competition for popular licensed programming is intense, and the success of certain of the Company’s operating businesses, including its subscription video services business, depends in large part on their ability to obtain and retain rights and access to desirable programming and certain related elements thereof, such as music rights. The Company’s subscription video services business has experienced higher programming costs due to, among other things, (1) increases imposed by program suppliers when offering new programming or upon the expiration of existing contracts; (2) incremental investment requirements for new services; and (3) increased competition for rights from other digital media companies, including streaming services and large digital platforms. Certain of the Company’s operating businesses, including its subscription video services business, are party to contracts for a substantial amount of sports, entertainment and other programming rights with various third parties, including professional sports leagues and teams and television and motion picture producers, that have varying durations and renewal terms. The Company may be unable to renew existing, or enter into new, programming rights agreements on comparable or favorable terms, including financial and other terms, such as exclusivity and the scope of rights. Third parties may also outbid the Company for those rights. In addition, as content providers develop competing services, some providers have been, and may in the future be, unwilling to provide the Company with access to their content. Consolidation among content providers may result in additional content becoming unavailable to the Company and/or increase the scale and leverage of those providers. Content may also become unavailable due to factors impacting the ability of the Company’s content providers to produce and distribute programming, such as prolonged work stoppages or pandemics and other health crises. The loss of rights, renewals on unfavorable terms or the unavailability of content for any other reason may adversely affect the Company’s ability to differentiate its services and the breadth or quality of the Company’s content offerings, including the extent of its sports coverage and entertainment programming, and lead to customer or audience dissatisfaction or loss, which could, in turn, adversely affect its revenues. In addition, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if upon renewal, escalations in programming rights costs are unmatched by increases in subscriber and carriage fees and advertising rates. The long-term nature of some of the Company’s content commitments may also limit its flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, business and economic conditions and the market segments in which it operates. The Company Has Made and May Continue to Make Strategic Acquisitions, Investments and Divestitures That Introduce Significant Risks and Uncertainties. In order to position its business to take advantage of growth opportunities, the Company has made and may continue to make strategic acquisitions and investments that involve significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include, among others: (1) the difficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses, operations and systems, such as financial reporting, internal controls, compliance and information technology (including cybersecurity and data protection controls), in an efficient and effective manner, (2) the challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other anticipated benefits, (3) the potential loss of key employees, customers, suppliers and partners, (4) with respect to investments, risks associated with the inability to control the operations of the business, (5) the risk of diverting the attention of the Company’s senior management from the Company’s operations, (6) in the case of foreign acquisitions and investments, the impact of specific economic, tax, currency, political, legal and regulatory risks associated with the relevant countries, (7) expenses and liabilities, both known and unknown, associated with the acquired businesses or investments, (8) in some cases, increased regulation and (9) in some cases, lower liquidity as a result of the use of cash or incurrence of debt to fund such acquisition or investment. If any acquired business or investment fails to operate as anticipated or an acquired business cannot be successfully integrated with the Company’s existing businesses, the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition, brands and reputation could be adversely affected, and the Company may be required to record non-cash impairment charges for the write-down of certain acquired assets and investments. The Company’s ability to continue to make acquisitions or investments depends on the availability of suitable businesses at acceptable prices and whether restrictions are imposed by governmental bodies or regulations, and competition for certain types of acquisitions is significant. The Company has also divested and may in the future divest certain assets or businesses that no longer fit with its strategic direction or growth targets or for other business reasons. Divestitures involve significant risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. These include, among others, the inability to find potential buyers on favorable terms, disruption to its business and/or diversion of management attention from other 20 business concerns, loss of key employees, renegotiation or termination of key business relationships, difficulties in separating the operations of the divested business, retention of certain liabilities related to the divested business and indemnification or other post-closing claims. The Company’s Businesses Depend on a Single or Limited Number of Suppliers for Certain Key Products and Services, and Any Reduction or Interruption in the Supply of These Products and Services or a Significant Increase in Price Could Have an Adverse Effect on the Company’s Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition. The Company’s businesses depend on a single or limited number of third-party suppliers for certain key products and services. For example, the Company relies on Amazon Web Services to supply cloud-based services used in many of the Company’s business activities and Optus to provide all of the satellite transponder capacity for its subscription video services business. If the Company’s relationship with key suppliers deteriorates or any of these suppliers breaches or terminates its agreement with the Company or otherwise fails to perform its obligations in a timely manner, experiences operating or financial difficulties, is unable to meet demand due to component shortages and other supply chain issues, labor shortages, insufficient capacity, cybersecurity incidents or otherwise, significantly increases the amount it charges the Company for necessary products or services or ceases production or provision of any necessary product or service, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, Telstra is currently the exclusive provider of wholesale fixed voice and broadband services for the Company’s pay-TV business and the largest reseller of its satellite services. Any disruption in the supply of those services or a decline in Telstra’s business could result in disruptions to the supply of, and/or reduce the number of subscribers for, the Company’s products and services, which could, in turn, adversely affect its business, results of operations and financial condition. While the Company will seek alternative sources for these products and services where possible and/or permissible under applicable agreements, it may not be able to secure these alternative sources quickly and cost-effectively or at all, which could impair its ability to timely deliver its products and services or operate its business. Any Significant Increase in the Cost to Print and Distribute the Company’s Books and Newspapers or Disruption in the Company’s Supply Chain or Printing and Distribution Channels May Adversely Affect the Company’s Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition. Printing and distribution costs, including the cost of paper, are a significant expense for the Company’s book and newspaper publishing units. The price of paper has historically been volatile, and prices remained elevated in fiscal 2024 relative to historical trends due to various factors, including increases in supplier operating expenses and inflationary pressures. The Company also relies on third-party suppliers for deliveries of paper and on third-party printing and distribution partners to print and distribute its books and newspapers. Factors such as inflationary pressures, labor shortages, higher transportation costs and delays and other supply chain issues, financial pressures, industry trends or economics (including the closure or conversion of newsprint mills and consolidation among suppliers and partners) , labor unrest, changes in laws and regulations, such as the E.U.’s Deforestation Regulation, natural disasters, extreme weather (which may occur with increasing frequency and intensity), pandemics and other widespread health crises or other circumstances affecting the Company’s paper and other third-party suppliers and print and distribution partners have increased, and could continue to increase, the Company’s printing and distribution costs and could lead to disruptions, reduced operations or consolidations within the Company’s printing and distribution supply chains and/or of third-party print sites and/or distribution routes. The Company may not be able to secure alternative providers quickly and cost-effectively, which could disrupt printing and distribution operations or increase the cost of printing and distributing the Company’s books and newspapers. Significant increases in these costs, undersupply or significant disruptions in the supply chain or the Company’s printing and distribution channels have had, and could in the future have, an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s Reputation, Credibility and Brands are Key Assets and Competitive Advantages and its Business and Results of Operations May be Affected by How the Company is Perceived. The Company’s products and services are distributed under some of the world’s most recognizable and respected brands, including The Wall Street Journal and premier news brands in Australia and the U.K., Dow Jones, HarperCollins Publishers, Foxtel, realestate.com.au, Realtor.com ® and many others, and the Company believes its success depends on its continued ability to maintain and enhance these brands. The Company’s brands, credibility and reputation could be damaged by incidents that erode consumer and customer trust or a perception that the Company’s products and services, including its journalism, programming, real estate information, benchmark and pricing services and other data and information, are low quality, unreliable 21 or fail to maintain independence and integrity. For example, the Company could be adversely impacted if generative AI tools misattribute incorrect information to the Company or if the Company’s use of generative AI in its own products and services produces content, information, analyses or recommendations that are alleged to be deficient, inaccurate, biased, harmful, discriminatory or infringing, violate privacy rights or otherwise be problematic. Significant negative claims or publicity regarding the Company’s products and services, operations, customer service, management, employees, advertisers and other business partners, business decisions, social responsibility and culture may damage its brands or reputation, even if such claims are untrue. The Company’s brands and reputation may also be impacted by, or associated with, its public commitments to, and disclosures regarding, various corporate ESG initiatives and metrics, its progress towards achieving its goals, as well as positions the Company, its businesses or its publications take or do not take on social issues. Changes in methodologies for reporting ESG data, improvements in third-party data, changes in the Company’s operations or other circumstances, the evolution of the Company’s processes for reporting ESG data and disparate and evolving standards for identifying, measuring, and reporting ESG metrics, including reporting requirements of the SEC, European and other regulators, are expected to result in new disclosures and additional costs and could lead to revisions to the Company’s current disclosures, goals or reported progress in achieving such goals, or adversely impact its ability to achieve such goals in the future, any of which could harm the Company and its brands and reputation. To the extent the Company’s brands, reputation and credibility are damaged, the Company’s ability to attract and retain consumers, customers, advertisers and employees, as well as the Company’s sales, business opportunities and profitability, could be adversely affected, which could in turn have an adverse impact on its business and results of operations. The Company’s International Operations Expose it to Additional Risks that Could Adversely Affect its Business, Operating Results and Financial Condition. In its fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, approximately 61% of the Company’s revenues were derived outside the U.S., and the Company is focused on expanding its international operations. There are risks inherent in doing business internationally and other risks may be heightened, including (1) issues related to staffing and managing international operations, including maintaining the health and safety of its personnel around the world; (2) economic uncertainties and volatility in local markets, including as a result of inflationary pressures or a general economic slowdown or recession, and political or social instability; (3) the impact of events in relevant jurisdictions such as natural disasters, extreme weather (which may occur with increasing frequency and intensity), pandemics and other widespread health crises, acts of terrorism or war and geopolitical tensions and conflicts; (4) compliance with foreign laws, regulations and policies and potential adverse changes thereto, including with respect to tax regimes, ownership restrictions, restrictions on repatriation of funds and currency exchange, data privacy, intellectual property, competition and labor and employment; (5) compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations, trade restrictions and economic sanctions; and (6) regulatory or governmental action against the Company’s products, services and personnel such as censorship or other restrictions on access, detention or expulsion of journalists or other employees and other retaliatory actions, which may increase due to geopolitical tensions and conflicts. Events or developments related to these and other risks associated with the Company’s international operations could result in reputational harm and have an adverse impact on the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Challenges associated with operating globally may increase as the Company continues to expand into geographic areas that it believes represent the highest growth opportunities. The Company is Party to Agreements with Third Parties Relating to Certain of its Businesses That Contain Operational and Management Restrictions and/or Other Rights That, Depending on the Circumstances, May Not be in the Best Interest of the Company. The Company is party to agreements with third parties relating to certain of its businesses that restrict the Company’s ability to take specified actions and contain other rights that, depending on the circumstances, may not be in the best interest of the Company. For example, the Company and Telstra are parties to a Shareholders’ Agreement with respect to Foxtel containing certain minority protections for Telstra, including standard governance provisions, as well as transfer and exit rights. The Shareholders’ Agreement provides Telstra with the right to appoint two directors to the Board of Foxtel, as well as Board and shareholder-level veto rights over certain non-ordinary course and/or material corporate actions that may prevent Foxtel from taking actions that are in the interests of the Company. The Shareholders’ Agreement also provides for (1) certain transfer restrictions, which could adversely affect the Company’s ability to execute such transfers and/or the prices at which those transfers may occur, and (2) exit arrangements, which could, in certain circumstances, force the Company to sell its interest, subject to rights of first and, in some cases, last refusals. In addition, Move, the Company’s digital real estate services business in the U.S., operates the Realtor.com ® website under an agreement with NAR that is perpetual in duration. However, NAR may terminate the operating agreement for certain contractually-specified reasons upon expiration of any applicable cure periods. If the operating agreement with NAR is 22 terminated, the NAR License would also terminate, and Move would be required to transfer a copy of the software that operates the Realtor.com ® website to NAR and provide NAR with copies of its agreements with advertisers and data content providers. NAR would then be able to operate a Realtor.com ® website, either by itself or with another third party. Damage, Failure or Destruction of Satellites and Transmitter Facilities that the Company’s Pay-TV Business Depends Upon to Distribute its Programming Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition. The Company’s pay-TV business uses satellite systems to transmit its programming to its subscribers and/or authorized sublicensees. The Company’s distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks, and the Company also uses studio and transmitter facilities. Transmissions may be disrupted or degraded as a result of natural disasters, extreme weather (which may occur with increasing frequency and intensity), power outages, terrorist attacks, cyberattacks or other similar events that damage or destroy on-ground uplinks or downlinks or studio and transmitter facilities, or as a result of damage to a satellite. Satellites are subject to significant operational and environmental risks while in orbit, including anomalies resulting from various factors such as manufacturing defects and problems with power or control systems, as well as environmental hazards such as meteoroid events, electrostatic storms and collisions with space debris. These events may result in the loss of one or more transponders on a satellite or the entire satellite and/or reduce the useful life of the satellite, which could, in turn, lead to a disruption or loss of video services to the Company’s customers. The Company does not carry commercial insurance for business disruptions or losses resulting from the foregoing events as it believes the cost of insurance premiums is uneconomical relative to the risk. Instead, the Company seeks to mitigate this risk through the maintenance of backup satellite capacity and other contingency plans. However, these steps may not be sufficient, and if the Company is unable to secure alternate distribution, studio and/or transmission facilities in a timely manner, any such disruption or loss could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Attracting, Retaining and Motivating Highly Qualified People is Difficult and Costly, and the Failure to Do So Could Harm the Company’s Business. The Company’s businesses depend upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of its corporate and divisional executive teams and other highly qualified employees who possess substantial business, technical and operational knowledge. The market for highly skilled people, including for technology-related, product development, data science, marketing and sales roles, is very competitive, and the Company cannot ensure that it will be successful in retaining and motivating these employees or hiring and training suitable additions or replacements without significant costs or delays, particularly as it continues to focus on its digital products and services. These risks have been, and may in the future be, exacerbated by labor constraints and inflationary pressures on employee wages and benefits. Changes in workplace and workforce dynamics, including the increased availability of flexible, hybrid and work-from-home arrangements, may also make it more difficult to hire, retain and motivate qualified employees if the Company’s needs are not aligned with worker demands or as a result of workplace culture challenges due to remote work. Reductions in force that the Company has conducted from time to time in order to optimize its organizational structure and reduce costs, including the headcount reduction announced in February 2023, may further adversely impact the Company’s ability to attract, retain and motivate employees, and there can be no assurance that the expected benefits of these actions will be realized, including the anticipated cost savings . The loss of key employees, the failure to attract, retain and motivate other highly qualified people or higher costs associated with these efforts, could harm the Company’s business, including the ability to execute its business strategy, and negatively impact its results of operations. The Company is Subject to Payment Processing Risk Which Could Lead to Adverse Effects on the Company’s Business and Results of Operations. The Company’s customers pay for its products and services using a variety of different payment methods, including credit and debit cards, prepaid cards, direct debit, online wallets and through direct carrier and partner billing. The Company relies on internal and third-party systems to process payment. Acceptance and processing of these payment methods are subject to certain rules and regulations and require payment of interchange and other fees. To the extent there are increases in payment processing fees, material changes in the payment ecosystem, delays in receiving payments from payment processors, any failures to comply with, or changes to, rules or regulations concerning payments, loss of payment or billing partners and/or disruptions or failures in, or fraudulent use of or access to, payment processing systems or payment products, the Company’s results of operations could be adversely impacted and it could suffer reputational harm. Furthermore, if the Company is unable to maintain its fraud and chargeback rates at acceptable levels, card networks may impose fines and its card approval rate may be impacted. The termination of the Company’s ability to process payments via any major payment method would adversely affect its business and results of operations. 23 Labor Disputes May Have an Adverse Effect on the Company’s Business. In some of the Company’s businesses, it engages the services of employees who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. The Company has experienced, and may in the future experience, labor unrest, including strikes or work slowdowns, in connection with the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements. A significant labor dispute could cause delays in production or other business interruptions and may result in higher costs in connection with new collective bargaining agreements, which could reduce profit margins and have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and reputation, and these risks may be exacerbated by labor constraints and inflationary pressures on employee wages and benefits. Risks Related to Information Technology, Cybersecurity and Data Protection A Breach, Failure, Misuse of or other Incident Involving the Company’s or its Third-Party Providers’ Network and Information Systems or Other Technologies Could Cause a Disruption of Services or Adversely Impact the Confidentiality, Integrity or Availability of Information or Data, Resulting in Increased Costs, Loss of Revenue, Reputational Damage or Other Harm to the Company’s Business. Network and information systems and other technologies used by the Company or used or supplied by third-party providers or partners, including those related to content delivery networks, network management and cloud-based services (collectively, the “Systems”), are important to the Company’s business activities and contain its proprietary, confidential and sensitive business information, including personal data of its customers and personnel. Events affecting the Systems such as computer compromises, cyber threats and attacks, computer viruses or other destructive or disruptive software, process breakdowns, ransomware and denial of service attacks, malicious social engineering or other malicious activities by individuals (including employees) or state-sponsored or other groups, or any combination of the foregoing, as well as power, telecommunications and internet outages, equipment failure, fire, natural disasters, extreme weather (which may occur with increasing frequency and intensity), terrorist activities, war, human or technological error or malfeasance that may affect such systems, could cause a failure, compromise, breach or interruption of these Systems, adversely impact the confidentiality, integrity or availability of information or data maintained in the Systems, disrupt the Company’s services and business, or otherwise negatively impact its business, results of operations and reputation. Unauthorized parties may also fraudulently induce the Company’s employees or other agents to disclose sensitive or confidential information in order to gain access to the Systems or the Company’s or third parties’ facilities or data. In addition, any “bugs,” errors or other defects in, or the improper implementation of, hardware or software applications the Company develops or procures from third parties could unexpectedly disrupt the Company’s network and information systems or other technologies or compromise information security. System resilience and/or redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and the Company’s disaster recovery and business continuity planning may not be sufficient to address all potential cyber events or other disruptions. In recent years, there has been a significant rise in the number of cyberattacks, and such attacks are becoming increasingly more sophisticated, targeted and difficult to detect and prevent against, particularly with the use of generative AI. A number of factors may further heighten cybersecurity risks, such as (1) the high profile nature of the Company’s businesses, (2) geopolitical tensions and conflicts, (3) remote access to Company systems by employees and (4) access to Systems, products and services by Company personnel, customers and other third parties using personal devices and apps or tools available on such devices, including AI tools. Acquisitions or other transactions could also expose the Company to cybersecurity risks if there are vulnerabilities present in acquired or integrated entities’ systems and technologies. Consequently, the risks associated with cyberattacks continue to increase, particularly as the Company’s digital businesses expand. The Company has experienced, and expects to continue to be subject to, cybersecurity threats. To date, the Company is not aware of any cybersecurity incidents that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect the Company . However, there is no assurance that cybersecurity threats or incidents will not have a material adverse effect in the future. Countermeasures that the Company and its third-party providers or partners have developed and implemented to address risks arising from Systems-related events, including its cybersecurity program, are not always successful, particularly given that techniques used to access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage Systems have continued to become more sophisticated and change frequently, and some countermeasures may limit the functionality of or otherwise negatively impact the Company’s products, services and systems. Additionally, it is difficult to detect and defend against certain threats and vulnerabilities that can persist over extended periods. Events affecting the Systems could require significant Company resources to remedy. Moreover, the development and maintenance of these measures is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. While the Company maintains cyber risk insurance, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover, or extend to, all costs or damage relating to any cybersecurity incident, and the Company cannot be certain that its current coverage will continue to be available on economically reasonable terms. 24 A significant failure, compromise, breach, interruption of or other incident affecting the Systems could adversely impact the confidentiality, integrity or availability of information or data maintained in the Systems and result in a disruption of the Company’s operations, including degradation or disruption of service, equipment damage, customer, audience or advertiser dissatisfaction, damage to its reputation or brands, regulatory investigations and enforcement actions, lawsuits, fines, penalties and other payments, response, recovery and remediation costs, a loss of or inability to attract new customers, audience, advertisers or business partners or loss of revenues and other financial losses. Any such event that results in loss, improper access to or disclosure of information maintained in the Systems, including financial, personal and credit card data, as well as confidential and proprietary information relating to personnel, customers, vendors and the Company’s business, including its intellectual property, could subject the Company to liability under relevant contractual obligations and laws and regulations protecting personal data and privacy, as well as private individual or class action lawsuits or regulatory enforcement actions. The Company may also be required to notify certain governmental agencies and/or regulators and affected individuals about any actual or perceived data security breach within strict time periods and at significant cost. In addition, media or other reports of actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in any Systems, even if nothing has actually been attempted or occurred, could also adversely impact the Company’s brand and reputation and materially affect its business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to Comply with Complex and Evolving Laws and Regulations, Industry Standards and Contractual Obligations Regarding Privacy, Data Use and Data Protection Could Have an Adverse Effect on the Company’s Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The Company’s business activities are subject to various and increasing laws and regulations in the U.S. and internationally governing the collection, use, sharing, protection and retention of personal data, which have implications for how such data is managed. Examples include the E.U.’s GDPR and the UK DPA and UK GDPR, each of which expands the regulation of personal data processing throughout the E.U. and the U.K., respectively, and significantly increases maximum penalties for non-compliance, as well as a number of U.S. state data privacy laws, which establish certain transparency rules, put greater restrictions on the collection, use and disclosure of personal information of their respective state residents and provide such residents with certain rights regarding their personal information. See “Governmental Regulation—Data Privacy and Security Regulation” for more information. These laws and regulations are increasingly complex and continue to evolve, and substantial uncertainty surrounds their scope and application. Moreover, data privacy and security laws may conflict from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Complying with these laws and regulations could be costly and resource-intensive, require the Company to change its business practices, or limit or restrict aspects of the Company’s business in a manner adverse to its operations, including by restricting the collection and/or disclosure of information that enables it to target and measure the effectiveness of advertising. The Company’s failure to comply, even if inadvertent or in good faith, or as a result of a compromise, breach or interruption of the Company’s systems by a third party, could result in exposure to enforcement by U.S. federal, state or local or foreign governments or private parties, notification and remediation costs, loss of customers, as well as significant negative publicity and reputational damage. The Company may also be subject to liability under relevant contractual obligations and may be required to expend significant resources to defend, remedy or address any claims. Risks Related to Intellectual Property Unauthorized Use of the Company’s Content May Decrease Revenue and Adversely Affect the Company’s Business and Profitability. The Company’s success depends in part on its ability to maintain, enforce and monetize the intellectual property rights in its original and acquired content, and unauthorized use of its brands, programming, digital journalism and other content, books and other intellectual property affects the value of its content. Developments in technology, including AI, the wide availability of higher internet bandwidth and reduced storage costs increase the threat of unauthorized use such as content piracy by making it easier to create, access, stream, duplicate and widely distribute unauthorized material, including from less-regulated countries into the Company’s primary markets. While the Company seeks to limit the threat of unauthorized use through various means, such activities are difficult to monitor and prevent and these efforts may be costly and are not always successful, particularly as threats emerge and evolve rapidly and infringers continue to develop tools that undermine security features and enable them to disguise their identities online. Recent advances and continued rapid development in AI may also lead to unauthorized exploitation of the Company’s journalism and other content, both in the training and grounding of models as well as output produced by generative AI tools. The proliferation of unauthorized use of the Company’s content undermines lawful distribution channels and reduces the revenue that the Company could receive from the legitimate sale, licensing and distribution of its content. Protection of the Company’s intellectual property rights is dependent on the scope and duration of its rights as defined by applicable laws in the U.S. and abroad, and if those laws are drafted or interpreted in ways that limit the extent or duration of the Company’s rights, including in relation to unauthorized use of the Company’s content by generative AI developers, or if existing laws are changed or 25 not effectively enforced, the Company’s ability to generate revenue from its intellectual property may decrease, or the cost of obtaining and maintaining rights may increase. The application of existing laws and regulations to new technologies, including generative AI, is unsettled, and the failure of legal and technological protections to evolve as technological tools become more sophisticated could make it more difficult for the Company to adequately protect its intellectual property, which could, in turn, negatively impact its value and further increase the Company’s enforcement costs. Failure by the Company to Protect Certain Intellectual Property and Brands, or Infringement Claims by Third Parties, Could Adversely Impact the Company’s Business, Results of Operation and Financial Condition. The Company’s businesses rely on a combination of trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade secrets and other proprietary rights, as well as licenses, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements, to establish, obtain and protect the intellectual property and brand names used in their businesses. The Company believes its proprietary trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights are important to its continued success and its competitive position. However, the Company cannot ensure that these intellectual property rights or those of its licensors (including licenses relating to sports programming rights, set-top box technology and related systems, the NAR License and the Fox Licenses) and suppliers will be enforced or upheld if challenged or that these rights will protect the Company against infringement claims by third parties, and effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country or region in which the Company operates or where its products and services are available. Efforts to protect and enforce the Company’s intellectual property rights may be costly, and any failure by the Company or its licensors and suppliers to effectively protect and enforce its or their intellectual property or brands, or any infringement claims by third parties, could adversely impact the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. Claims of intellectual property infringement could require the Company to enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms (if such agreements are available at all), require the Company to spend substantial sums to defend against or settle such claims or to satisfy any judgment rendered against it, or cease any further use of the applicable intellectual property, which could in turn require the Company to change its business practices or offerings and limit its ability to compete effectively. Even if the Company believes any such challenges or claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend and divert management’s attention and resources away from its business. In addition, the Company may be contractually required to indemnify other parties against liabilities arising out of any third-party infringement claims. Risks Related to Financial Results and Position The Indebtedness of the Company and Certain of its Subsidiaries May Affect their Ability to Operate their Businesses, and May Have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company’s Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The Company and its Subsidiaries May be Able to Incur Substantially More Debt, Which Could Further Exacerbate the Risks Described Herein. As of June 30, 2024, News Corp had $2.8 billion of total outstanding indebtedness (excluding related party debt), including $691 million and $134 million, respectively, of indebtedness held by its non-wholly owned subsidiaries, Foxtel and REA Group (collectively with News Corp, the “Debtors”). The indebtedness of the Debtors and the terms of their financing arrangements could: (1) limit their ability to obtain additional financing in the future; (2) make it more difficult for them to satisfy their obligations under the terms of their financing arrangements, including the provisions of any relevant debt instruments, credit agreements, indentures and similar or associated documents (collectively, the “Debt Documents”); (3) limit their ability to refinance their indebtedness on terms acceptable to them or at all; (4) limit their flexibility to plan for and adjust to changing business and market conditions in the industries in which they operate and increase their vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; (5) require them to dedicate a substantial portion of their cash flow to make interest and principal payments on their debt, thereby limiting the availability of their cash flow to fund future investments, capital expenditures, working capital, business activities, acquisitions and other general corporate requirements; (6) subject them to higher levels of indebtedness than their competitors, which may cause a competitive disadvantage and may reduce their flexibility in responding to increased competition; and (7) in the case of the Company’s fixed rate indebtedness, which includes prepayment penalties, diminish the Company’s ability to benefit from any future decrease in interest rates. The ability of the Debtors to satisfy their debt service obligations (including any repurchase obligations upon a change in control) and to fund other cash needs will depend on the Debtors’ future performance and other factors such as changes in interest rates affecting the Debtors’ variable rate indebtedness. Although the Company hedges a portion of this interest rate exposure, there can be no assurance that it will be able to continue to do so at a reasonable cost or at all, or that there will not be a default by any of the counterparties. If the Debtors do not generate enough cash to pay their debt service obligations and fund their other cash requirements, they may be required to restructure or refinance all or part of their existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or raise additional equity, any or all of which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. The Company and its subsidiaries, 26 including the Debtors, may also be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, which could exacerbate the effects described above and elsewhere in this “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” In addition, the Debtors’ outstanding Debt Documents contain financial and operating covenants that may limit their operational and financial flexibility. These covenants include compliance with, or maintenance of, certain financial tests and ratios and may, depending on the applicable Debtor and subject to certain exceptions, restrict or prohibit such Debtor and/or its subsidiaries from, among other things, incurring or guaranteeing debt, undertaking certain transactions (including certain investments and acquisitions), disposing of certain properties or assets (including subsidiary stock), merging or consolidating with any other person, making financial accommodation available, entering into certain other financing arrangements, creating or permitting certain liens, engaging in transactions with affiliates, making repayments of certain other loans, undergoing fundamental business changes and/or paying dividends or making other restricted payments and investments. Various risks, uncertainties and events could affect the Debtors’ ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants. In the event any of these covenants are breached and such breach results in a default under any Debt Documents, the lenders or noteholders, as applicable, may accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness under the applicable Debt Documents, which could result in a cross-default under other outstanding Debt Documents and could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Could Have an Adverse Effect on the Company’s Results of Operations. The Company is primarily exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to its consolidated debt that is denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the operations whose cash flows support the ability to repay or refinance such debt. As of June 30, 2024, the Foxtel operating subsidiaries, whose functional currency is Australian dollars, had approximately $49 million aggregate principal amount of outstanding indebtedness denominated in U.S. dollars. The Company’s policy is to evaluate hedging against the risk of foreign currency exchange rate movements with respect to this exposure to reduce volatility and enhance predictability where commercially reasonable. However, there can be no assurance that it will be able to continue to do so at a reasonable cost or at all, or that there will not be a default by any of the counterparties to those arrangements. In addition, the Company is exposed to foreign currency translation risk because it has significant operations in a number of foreign jurisdictions and certain of its operations are conducted in currencies other than the Company’s reporting currency, primarily the Australian dollar and the British pound sterling. Since the Company’s financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in foreign currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, a currency translation impact on the Company’s earnings when the results of those operations that are reported in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars for inclusion in the Company’s financial statements, which could, in turn, have an adverse effect on its reported results of operations in a given period or in specific markets. The Company Could Suffer Losses Due to Asset Impairment and Restructuring Charges. As a result of changes in the Company’s industry and market conditions, the Company has recognized, and may in the future recognize, impairment charges for write-downs of goodwill, intangible assets, investments and other long-lived assets, as well as restructuring charges relating to the reorganization of its businesses, which negatively impact the Company’s results of operations and, in the case of cash restructuring charges, its financial condition. See Notes 5, 6, 7 and 8 in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. For instance, any significant shortfall, now or in the future, in advertising revenue or subscribers, the expected popularity of the content for which the Company has acquired rights and/or consumer acceptance of its products could lead to a downward revision in the fair value of certain reporting units. Any downward revisions in the fair value of a reporting unit, indefinite-lived intangible assets, investments or other long-lived assets could result in impairments for which non-cash charges would be required, and any such charge could be material to the Company’s reported results of operations. The Company may also incur restructuring charges if it is required to realign its resources in response to significant shortfalls in revenue or other adverse trends. For example, the Company incurred cash restructuring charges of approximately $106 million in connection with the headcount reduction announced in February 2023 . Any impairments and restructuring charges may also negatively impact the Company’s taxes, including its ability to realize its deferred tax assets and deduct certain interest costs. The Company Could Be Subject to Significant Additional Tax Liabilities, which Could Adversely Affect its Operating Results and Financial Condition. The Company is subject to taxation in U.S. federal, state and local jurisdictions and various non-U.S. jurisdictions, including Australia and the U.K. The Company’s effective tax rate is impacted by the tax laws, regulations, practices and interpretations in the jurisdictions in which it operates and may fluctuate significantly from period to period depending on, among other things, the 27 geographic mix of the Company’s profits and losses, changes in tax laws and regulations or their application and interpretation, the outcome of tax audits and changes in valuation allowances associated with the Company’s deferred tax assets. Changes to enacted tax laws could have an adverse impact on the Company’s future tax rate and increase its tax provision. The Company may be required to record additional valuation allowances if, among other things, changes in tax laws or adverse economic conditions negatively impact the Company’s ability to realize its deferred tax assets. Evaluating and estimating the Company’s tax provision, current and deferred tax assets and liabilities and other tax accruals requires significant management judgment, and there are often transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The Company’s tax returns are routinely audited by various tax authorities. Tax authorities may not agree with the treatment of items reported in the Company’s tax returns or positions taken by the Company, and as a result, tax-related settlements or litigation may occur, resulting in additional income tax liabilities against the Company. Although the Company believes it has appropriately accrued for the expected outcome of tax reviews and examinations and any related litigation, the final outcomes of these matters could differ materially from the amounts recorded in the financial statements. As a result, the Company may be required to recognize additional charges in its Statements of Operations and pay significant additional amounts with respect to current or prior periods, or its taxes in the future could increase, which could adversely affect its operating results and financial condition. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (“OECD”) continues to develop detailed rules to assist member states in the implementation of landmark reforms to the international tax system, as agreed in October 2021 by 136 members of the OECD/G20 Inclusive Framework. These rules are intended to address certain tax challenges arising from the digitalization of the global economy. In December 2022, EU member states agreed to adopt the OECD’s minimum tax rules, which began going into effect in tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2024. In July 2023, the U.K. similarly enacted legislation, which is generally effective for years beginning on or after January 1, 2024. Several other countries, including Australia, have proposed changes to their tax law to implement the OECD’s minimum tax proposal. The application of the rules continues to evolve, and its outcome may alter aspects of how the Company’s tax obligations are determined in countries in which it does business. While several jurisdictions have rolled back their digital services taxes, certain jurisdictions still have separately enacted new digital services taxes. Those taxes have had limited impact on the Company’s overall tax obligations, but the Company continues to monitor them. Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters The Company’s Business Could Be Adversely Impacted by Changes in Law, Governmental Policy and Regulation. Various aspects of the Company’s activities are subject to regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world, and the introduction of new laws and regulations in countries where the Company’s products and services are produced or distributed, and changes in existing laws and regulations in those countries or the enforcement thereof, have increased its compliance risk and could have a negative impact on its interests. The Company’s Australian operating businesses may be adversely affected by changes in government policy, regulation or legislation, or the application or enforcement thereof, applying to companies in the Australian media industry or to Australian companies in general, including new prominence and anti-siphoning rules implemented in 2024 that affect its subscription video services business. See “Governmental Regulation—Australian Media Regulation” for more information. Benchmarks provided by the Company’s Dow Jones Energy business may be subject to regulatory frameworks in the E.U. and other jurisdictions. See “Governmental Regulation—Benchmark Regulation” for more information. The Company and its newspaper publishing businesses in the U.K. are subject to regulation and oversight as a result of the implementation of recommendations of the Leveson inquiry into the U.K. press and new legislation restricting foreign investment in U.K. newspapers. Additionally, the Company’s radio stations in the U.K. and Ireland and Talk are subject to governmental regulation by Ofcom. See “Governmental Regulation—U.K. Press-Related Regulation” and “—U.K. Radio Broadcasting and On-Demand Services Regulation,” respectively, for more information. Increased focus on ESG issues among governmental bodies and various stakeholders has resulted, and may continue to result, in the adoption of new laws and regulations, reporting requirements and policies in the U.S. and internationally, including more specific, target-driven frameworks and prescriptive reporting of ESG metrics, practices and targets. Laws and regulations governing new or evolving technologies, including generative AI, are also developing and remain unsettled, and legal and regulatory developments in this area could impact the Company’s business, including through increased legal liability risk and compliance costs associated with the use of generative AI. Laws and regulations may vary between local, state, federal and international jurisdictions and may sometimes conflict, and the enforcement of those laws and regulations may be inconsistent and unpredictable. Many of these laws and regulations, particularly those relating to new or evolving technologies, such as generative AI, pricing algorithms or ESG matters, are complex, technical and changing rapidly. The Company may incur substantial costs or be required to modify its business practices, implement new reporting processes and devote substantial management attention in order to comply with applicable laws and regulations and could incur substantial penalties or other liabilities and reputational damage in the event of any failure to comply. 28 Adverse Results from Litigation or Other Proceedings Could Impact the Company’s Business Practices and Operating Results. From time to time, the Company is party to litigation, as well as to regulatory and other proceedings with governmental authorities and administrative agencies, including with respect to antitrust, tax, data privacy and security, intellectual property, employment and other matters. See Note 16 in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of certain matters. The outcome of these matters and other litigation and proceedings is subject to significant uncertainty, and it is possible that an adverse resolution of one or more such proceedings could result in reputational harm and/or significant monetary damages, injunctive relief, behavioral remedies or changes, consent decrees or settlement costs that could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations or financial condition as well as the Company’s ability to conduct its business as it is presently being conducted. In addition, regardless of merit or outcome, such proceedings can have an adverse impact on the Company as a result of legal costs, diversion of management and other personnel and other factors. While the Company maintains insurance for certain potential liabilities, such insurance does not cover all types and amounts of potential liabilities and is subject to various exclusions as well as caps on amounts recoverable. Even if the Company believes a claim is covered by insurance, insurers may dispute its entitlement to recovery for a variety of potential reasons, which may affect the timing and, if they prevail, the amount of the Company’s recovery. Risks Related to the Company’s Common Stock The Market Price of the Company’s Stock May Fluctuate Significantly. The Company cannot predict the prices at which its common stock may trade. The market price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate significantly, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond its control, including: (1) the Company’s quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in its industry; (2) actual or anticipated fluctuations in the Company’s operating results; (3) success or failure of the Company’s business strategy; (4) the Company’s ability to obtain financing as needed; (5) changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; (6) changes in laws and regulations affecting the Company’s business; (7) announcements by the Company or its competitors of significant new business developments or the addition or loss of significant customers; (8) announcements by the Company or its competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; (9) changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or the Company’s ability to meet its earnings guidance, if any; (10) the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; (11) investor perception of the Company and the industries in which it operates; (12) results from material litigation or governmental investigations; (13) changes in capital gains taxes and taxes on dividends affecting stockholders; (14) overall market fluctuations, general economic conditions, such as inflationary pressures or a general economic slowdown or recession, and other external factors, including pandemics, geopolitical tensions or conflicts, war and terrorism; and (15) changes in the amounts and frequency of dividends or share repurchases, if any. Certain of the Company’s Directors and Significant Stockholders May Have Actual or Potential Conflicts of Interest Because of Their Equity Ownership in Fox Corporation (“FOX”) and/or Because They Also Serve as Officers and/or on the Board of Directors of FOX, Which May Result in the Diversion of Certain Corporate Opportunities to FOX. Certain of the Company’s directors and significant stockholders own shares of FOX’s common stock, and the individual holdings may be significant for some of these individuals compared to their total assets. In addition, the Company’s Chair, Lachlan K. Murdoch, also serves as Executive Chair and Chief Executive Officer of FOX. This ownership or service to both companies may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when faced with decisions that could have different implications for the Company and FOX. For example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute that may arise between the Company and FOX regarding the terms of the agreements governing the indemnification of certain matters. In addition to any other arrangements that the Company and FOX may agree to implement, the Company and FOX agreed that officers and directors who serve at both companies will recuse themselves from decisions where conflicts arise due to their positions at both companies. The Company’s Amended and Restated By-laws acknowledge that the Company’s directors and officers, as well as certain of its stockholders, including K. Rupert Murdoch, certain members of his family and certain family trusts (so long as such persons continue to own, in the aggregate, 10% or more of the voting stock of each of the Company and FOX), each of which is referred to as a covered stockholder, are or may become stockholders, directors, officers, employees or agents of FOX and certain of its affiliates. The Company’s Amended and Restated By-laws further provide that any such overlapping person will not be liable to the Company, or to any of its stockholders, for breach of any fiduciary duty that would otherwise exist because such individual directs a corporate opportunity (other than certain types of restricted business opportunities set forth in the Company’s Amended 29 and Restated By-laws) to FOX instead of the Company. This could result in an overlapping person submitting any corporate opportunities other than restricted business opportunities to FOX instead of the Company. Certain Provisions of the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws and the Ownership of the Company’s Common Stock by the Murdoch Family Trust May Discourage Takeovers, and the Concentration of Ownership Will Affect the Voting Results of Matters Submitted for Stockholder Approval. The Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws contain certain anti-takeover provisions that may make more difficult or expensive a tender offer, change in control, or takeover attempt that is opposed by the Company’s Board of Directors or certain stockholders holding a significant percentage of the voting power of the Company’s outstanding voting stock. In particular, the Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws provide for, among other things: • a dual class common equity capital structure; • a prohibition on stockholders taking any action by written consent without a meeting; • special stockholders’ meeting to be called only by the Board of Directors, the Chair or a Vice or Deputy Chair of the Board of Directors, or, after first requesting that the Board of Directors fix a record date for such meeting, the holders of not less than 20% of the voting power of the Company’s outstanding voting stock; • the requirement that stockholders give the Company advance notice to nominate candidates for election to the Board of Directors or to make stockholder proposals at a stockholders’ meeting; • the requirement of an affirmative vote of at least 65% of the voting power of the Company’s outstanding voting stock to amend or repeal its by-laws; • vacancies on the Board of Directors to be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office; • certain restrictions on the transfer of the Company’s shares; and • the Board of Directors to issue, without stockholder approval, Preferred Stock and Series Common Stock with such terms as the Board of Directors may determine. These provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, even in the case where a majority of the stockholders may consider such proposals, if effective, desirable. In addition, as a result of his ability to appoint certain members of the board of directors of the corporate trustee of the Murdoch Family Trust (“MFT”), which beneficially owns less than one percent of the Company’s outstanding Class A Common Stock and approximately 40.3% of the Company’s Class B Common Stock as of June 30, 2024, K. Rupert Murdoch may be deemed to be a beneficial owner of the shares beneficially owned by the MFT. K. Rupert Murdoch, however, disclaims any beneficial ownership of these shares. Also, K. Rupert Murdoch beneficially owns or may be deemed to beneficially own an additional less than one percent of the Company’s Class B Common Stock as of June 30, 2024. Thus, K. Rupert Murdoch may be deemed to beneficially own in the aggregate less than one percent of the Company’s Class A Common Stock and approximately 40.8% of the Company’s Class B Common Stock as of June 30, 2024. This concentration of voting power could discourage third parties from making proposals involving an acquisition of the Company. Additionally, the ownership concentration of Class B Common Stock by the MFT increases the likelihood that proposals submitted for stockholder approval that are supported by the MFT will be adopted and proposals that the MFT does not support will not be adopted, whether or not such proposals to stockholders are also supported by the other holders of Class B Common Stock. The Company’s Board of Directors has approved a $1 billion stock repurchase program for the Company’s Class A and Class B Common Stock, which has increased and could in the future further increase the percentage of Class B Common Stock held by the MFT. The Company has entered into a stockholders agreement with the MFT pursuant to which the Company and the MFT have agreed not to take actions that would result in the MFT and Murdoch family members together owning more than 44% of the outstanding voting power of the shares of Class B Common Stock or would increase the MFT’s voting power by more than 1.75% in any rolling 12-month period. The MFT would forfeit votes to the extent necessary to ensure that the MFT and the Murdoch family collectively do not exceed 44% of the outstanding voting power of the shares of Class B Common Stock, except where a Murdoch family member votes their own shares differently from the MFT on any matter. 30

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

This discussion and analysis contains statements that constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. All statements that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. The words “expect,” “will,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “predict,” “believe,” “should” and similar expressions and variations thereof are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements appear in a number of places in this discussion and analysis and include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of the Company, its directors or its officers with respect to, among other things, trends affecting the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations, the Company’s strategy and strategic initiatives, including potential acquisitions, investments and dispositions, the Company’s cost savings initiatives and the outcome of contingencies such as litigation and investigations. Readers are cautioned that any forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. More information regarding these risks and uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is set forth under the heading “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (the “Annual Report”). The Company does not ordinarily make projections of its future operating results and undertakes no obligation (and expressly disclaims any obligation) to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Readers should carefully review this document and the other documents filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). This section should be read together with the Consolidated Financial Statements of News Corporation and related notes set forth elsewhere in this Annual Report. The following discussion and analysis omits discussion of fiscal 2022. Please see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023 for a discussion of fiscal 2022. INTRODUCTION News Corporation (together with its subsidiaries, “News Corporation,” “News Corp,” the “Company,” “we” or “us”) is a global diversified media and information services company comprised of businesses across a range of media, including: digital real estate services, subscription video services in Australia, news and information services and book publishing. The consolidated financial statements are referred to herein as the “Consolidated Financial Statements.” The consolidated statements of operations are referred to herein as the “Statements of Operations.” The consolidated balance sheets are referred to herein as the “Balance Sheets.” The consolidated statements of cash flows are referred to herein as the “Statements of Cash Flows.” The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“GAAP”). Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is intended to help provide an understanding of the Company’s financial condition, changes in financial condition and results of operations. This discussion is organized as follows: • Overview of the Company’s Businesses —This section provides a general description of the Company’s businesses, as well as developments that occurred during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 and through the date of this filing that the Company believes are important in understanding its results of operations and financial condition or to disclose known trends. • Results of Operations —This section provides an analysis of the Company’s results of operations for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023. This analysis is presented on both a consolidated basis and a segment basis. Supplemental revenue information is also included for reporting units within certain segments and is presented on a gross basis, before eliminations in consolidation. In addition, a brief description is provided of significant transactions and events that impact the comparability of the results being analyzed. The Company maintains a 52-53 week fiscal year ending on the Sunday closest to June 30 in each year. Fiscal 2024 and 2023 each included 52 weeks. • Liquidity and Capital Resources —This section provides an analysis of the Company’s cash flows for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, as well as a discussion of the Company’s financial arrangements and outstanding commitments, both firm and contingent, that existed as of June 30, 2024. 35 • Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates —This section discusses accounting policies considered important to the Company’s financial condition and results of operations, and which require significant judgment and estimates on the part of management in application. In addition, Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements summarizes the Company’s significant accounting policies, including the critical accounting policies discussed in this section. OVERVIEW OF THE COMPANY’S BUSINESSES The Company manages and reports its businesses in the following six segments: • Digital Real Estate Services —The Digital Real Estate Services segment consists of the Company’s 61.4% interest in REA Group and 80% interest in Move. The remaining 20% interest in Move is held by REA Group. REA Group is a market-leading digital media business specializing in property and is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (“ASX”) (ASX: REA). REA Group advertises property and property-related services on its websites and mobile apps, including Australia’s leading residential, commercial and share property websites, realestate.com.au, realcommercial.com.au and Flatmates.com.au, property.com.au and property portals in India. In addition, REA Group provides property-related data to the financial sector and financial services through a digital property search and financing experience and a mortgage broking offering. Move is a leading provider of digital real estate services in the U.S. and primarily operates Realtor.com ® , a premier real estate information, advertising and services platform. Move offers real estate advertising solutions to agents and brokers, including its Connections SM Plus, Market VIP SM , Advantage SM Pro and Listing Toolkit products as well as its referral-based services, ReadyConnect Concierge SM and RealChoice TM Selling (formerly UpNest). Move also offers online tools and services to do-it-yourself landlords and tenants. • Subscription Video Services —The Company’s Subscription Video Services segment provides sports, entertainment and news services to pay-TV and streaming subscribers and other commercial licensees via satellite and internet distribution and consists of (i) the Company’s 65% interest in the Foxtel Group (with the remaining 35% interest held by Telstra, an ASX-listed telecommunications company) and (ii) Australian News Channel (“ANC”). The Foxtel Group is the largest Australian-based subscription television provider. Its Foxtel pay-TV service provides approximately 200 channels and video on demand covering sports, general entertainment, movies, documentaries, music, children’s programming and news. Foxtel and the Group’s Kayo Sports streaming service offer the leading sports programming content in Australia, with broadcast rights to live sporting events including: National Rugby League, Australian Football League, Cricket Australia and various motorsports programming. The Foxtel Group’s other products and services include BINGE , its entertainment streaming service, Foxtel Now, a streaming service that provides access across Foxtel’s live and on-demand content, and Hubbl, its recently-launched content aggregation platform. ANC operates the Sky News Australia network, Australia’s 24-hour multi-channel, multi-platform news service. ANC channels are distributed throughout Australia on Foxtel and Sky News is distributed in New Zealand by Sky Network Television Limited. ANC also owns and operates the IPTV Australia Channel, which is available in territories outside Australia and New Zealand, and offers content across a variety of digital media platforms, including web, mobile and third-party providers. • Dow Jones —The Dow Jones segment consists of Dow Jones, a global provider of news and business information whose products target individual consumers and enterprise customers and are distributed through a variety of media channels including newspapers, newswires, websites, mobile apps, newsletters, magazines, proprietary databases, live journalism, video and podcasts. Dow Jones’s consumer products include premier brands such as The Wall Street Journal , Barron’s , MarketWatch and Investor’s Business Daily. Dow Jones’s professional information products, which target enterprise customers, include Dow Jones Risk & Compliance, a leading provider of data solutions to help customers identify and manage regulatory, corporate and reputational risk with tools focused on financial crime, sanctions, trade and other compliance requirements, Dow Jones Energy, a leading provider of pricing data, news, insights, analysis and other information for energy commodities and key base chemicals, Factiva, a leading provider of global business content, and Dow Jones Newswires, which distributes real-time business news, information and analysis to financial professionals and investors. 36 • Book Publishing —The Book Publishing segment consists of HarperCollins, the second largest consumer book publisher in the world, with operations in 15 countries and particular strengths in general fiction, nonfiction, children’s and religious publishing. HarperCollins owns more than 120 branded publishing imprints, including Harper, William Morrow, Mariner, HarperCollins Children’s Books, Avon, Harlequin and Christian publishers Zondervan and Thomas Nelson, and publishes works by well-known authors such as Harper Lee, George Orwell, Agatha Christie and Zora Neale Hurston, as well as global author brands including J.R.R. Tolkien, C.S. Lewis, Daniel Silva, Karin Slaughter and Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. It is also home to many beloved children’s books and series and a significant Christian publishing business. • News Media —The News Media segment consists primarily of News Corp Australia, News UK and the New York Post and includes The Australian, The Daily Telegraph, Herald Sun, The Courier Mail , The Advertiser and the news.com.au website in Australia, The Times, The Sunday Times, The Sun, The Sun on Sunday and thesun.co.uk in the U.K. and the-sun.com in the U.S. This segment also includes Wireless Group, operator of talkSPORT, the leading sports radio network in the U.K., Talk in the U.K. and Storyful, a social media content agency. • Other —The Other segment consists primarily of general corporate overhead expenses, strategy costs and costs related to the U.K. Newspaper Matters (as defined in Note 16—Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Digital Real Estate Services The Digital Real Estate Services segment generates revenue through property and property-related advertising and services, including: the sale of real estate listing and lead generation products and referral-based services to agents, brokers, developers, homebuilders and landlords; real estate-related and property rental-related services; display advertising on residential real estate and commercial property sites; and residential property data services to the financial sector. The Digital Real Estate Services segment also generates revenue through commissions from referrals generated through its digital property search and financing offering and mortgage broking services. Significant expenses associated with these sites and services include development costs, advertising and promotional expenses, hosting and support services, salaries, broker commissions, employee benefits and other routine overhead expenses. The Digital Real Estate Services segment’s results are highly sensitive to conditions in the real estate market, as well as macroeconomic factors such as interest rates and inflation, which are expected to continue to adversely impact real estate lead and transaction volumes and adjacent businesses in the near term, particularly in the U.S. Consumers overwhelmingly turn to the internet and mobile devices for real estate information and services. The Digital Real Estate Services segment’s success depends on its continued innovation to provide products and services that are useful for consumers and real estate, mortgage and financial services professionals, homebuilders and landlords and attractive to its advertisers. The Digital Real Estate Services segment operates in a highly competitive digital environment with other operators of real estate and property websites and mobile apps. Subscription Video Services The Company’s Subscription Video Services segment consists of (i) its 65% interest in the Foxtel Group and (ii) ANC. The Foxtel Group is the largest Australian-based subscription television provider, with a suite of offerings including its Foxtel pay-TV and Kayo Sports, BINGE and Foxtel Now streaming services and Hubbl, its recently-launched content aggregation platform. The Foxtel Group generates revenue primarily through subscription revenue as well as advertising revenue. The Foxtel Group competes for audiences primarily with a variety of other video content providers, such as traditional Free-To-Air (“FTA”) TV operators in Australia and content providers that deliver video programming over the internet. These providers include, Internet Protocol television, or IPTV, subscription video-on-demand and broadcast video-on-demand providers; streaming services offered through digital media providers; as well as programmers and distributors that provide content directly to consumers over the internet. ANC operates the Sky News Australia network, Australia’s 24-hour multi-channel, multi-platform news service, and also owns and operates the IPTV Australia Channel. Revenue is primarily derived from monthly fees received from pay-TV providers and advertising. 37 The most significant operating expenses of the Subscription Video Services segment are the acquisition and production expenses related to programming, the expenses related to operating the technical facilities of the broadcast operations, expenses related to satellite and data-related transmission costs and studio and engineering expense. The expenses associated with licensing certain sports programming rights are recognized during the applicable season or event, which can cause results at the Subscription Video Services segment to fluctuate based on the timing and mix of the Foxtel Group’s local and international sports programming. Sports programming rights costs associated with a dedicated channel are amortized over 12 months. Other expenses include subscriber acquisition costs such as sales costs and marketing and promotional expenses related to improving the market visibility and awareness of the channels and their programming. Additional expenses include salaries, employee benefits, technology, rent and other routine overhead expenses. Dow Jones The Dow Jones segment’s products target individual consumers and enterprise customers. Revenue from the Dow Jones segment’s consumer business is derived primarily from circulation, which includes subscription and single-copy sales of its digital and print consumer products, the sale of digital and print advertising, licensing fees for its print and digital consumer content and participation fees for its live journalism events. Circulation revenues are dependent on the content of the Dow Jones segment’s consumer products, prices of its and/or competitors’ products, as well as promotional activities and news cycles. Advertising revenue is dependent on a number of factors, including demand for the Dow Jones segment’s consumer products, general economic and business conditions, demographics of the customer base, advertising rates and effectiveness and brand strength and reputation. Certain sectors of the economy account for a significant portion of Dow Jones’s advertising revenues, including technology and finance, which continued to be affected by economic uncertainty in fiscal 2024. Advertising revenues are also subject to seasonality, with revenues typically highest in the Company's second fiscal quarter due to the end-of-year holiday season. In addition, the consumer print business faces challenges from alternative media formats and shifting consumer preferences, which have adversely affected, and are expected to continue to adversely affect, both print circulation and advertising revenues. Advertising, in particular, has been impacted by the shift in spending from print to digital, which has increased advertising choices and formats, resulting in audience fragmentation and increased competition. Technologies, standards, regulations, policies and practices have also been and will continue to be developed and implemented that make it more difficult to target and measure the effectiveness of digital advertising, which may impact rates or revenues. As a multi-platform news provider, the Dow Jones segment seeks to maximize revenues from a variety of media formats and platforms, including leveraging its content through licensing arrangements with third-party platforms, developing new advertising models and growing its live journalism events business, and continues to invest in its digital and other products, which represent an increasingly larger share of revenues at its consumer business. Mobile devices and apps and other technologies provide continued opportunities for the Dow Jones segment to make its content available to a new audience of readers, introduce new or different pricing schemes and develop its products to continue to attract advertisers and/or affect the relationship between content providers and consumers. Operating expenses for the consumer business include costs related to paper, production, distribution, third-party printing, editorial and commissions. Selling, general and administrative expenses include promotional expenses, salaries, employee benefits, rent and other routine overhead. The costs associated with printing and distributing newspapers, including paper prices and delivery costs, are key operating expenses whose fluctuations can have a material effect on the results of the Dow Jones segment’s consumer business. The consumer business is affected by the cyclical changes in the price of paper and other factors that may affect paper prices, including, among other things, inflation, supply chain disruptions, industry trends or economics and tariffs or other restrictions on non-U.S. paper suppliers. In addition, the Dow Jones segment relies on third parties for much of the printing and distribution of its print products. The shift from print to digital and changing labor markets present challenges to the financial and operational stability of these third parties which could, in turn, impact the availability, or increase the cost, of third-party printing and distribution services for the Company's newspapers. The Dow Jones segment’s consumer products compete for consumers, audience and advertising with other local and national newspapers, web and app-based media, news aggregators, customized news feeds, search engines, blogs, magazines, investment tools, social media sources, podcasts and event producers, as well as other media such as television, radio stations and outdoor displays. As a result of rapidly changing and evolving technologies (including recent developments in artificial intelligence (“AI”), particularly generative AI), distribution platforms and business models, and corresponding changes in consumer behavior, the consumer business continues to face increasing competition for both circulation and advertising revenue, including from a variety of alternative news and information sources, as well as programmatic advertising buying channels and off-platform distribution of its products. 38 The Dow Jones segment’s professional information business, which targets enterprise customers, derives revenue primarily from subscriptions to its professional information products. The professional information business serves enterprise customers with products that combine news and information with technology and tools that inform decisions and aid awareness, research, understanding and compliance. The success of the professional information business depends on its ability to provide products, services, applications and functionalities that meet the needs of its enterprise customers, who operate in information-intensive and oftentimes highly regulated industries such as finance and insurance, and it must also anticipate and respond to industry trends and regulatory and technological changes. Significant expenses for the professional information business include development costs, sales and marketing expenses, hosting and support services, royalties, salaries, consulting and professional fees, sales commissions, employee benefits and other routine overhead expenses. The Dow Jones segment’s professional information products compete with various information service providers, compliance data providers, global financial newswires and energy and commodities pricing and data providers, including Reuters News, RELX (including LexisNexis and ICIS), Refinitiv, S&P Global, DTN and Argus Media, as well as many other providers of news, information and compliance data. Book Publishing The Book Publishing segment derives revenues from the sale of general fiction, nonfiction, children’s and religious books in the U.S. and internationally. The revenues and operating results of the Book Publishing segment are significantly affected by the timing of releases and the number of its books in the marketplace. The book publishing marketplace is subject to increased periods of demand during the end-of-year holiday season in its main operating geographies. This marketplace is highly competitive and continues to change due to technological developments, including additional digital platforms and distribution channels, and other factors. Each book is a separate and distinct product and its financial success depends upon many factors, including public acceptance. Major new title releases represent a significant portion of the Book Publishing segment’s sales throughout the fiscal year. Print-based consumer books are generally sold on a fully returnable basis, resulting in the return of unsold books. In the domestic and international markets, the Book Publishing segment is subject to global trends and local economic conditions. Operating expenses for the Book Publishing segment include costs related to paper, printing, freight, authors’ royalties, editorial, promotional, art and design expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses include salaries, employee benefits, rent and other routine overhead costs. News Media Revenue at the News Media segment is derived primarily from circulation and subscriptions, the sale of advertising, as well as licensing. Circulation and subscription revenues can be greatly affected by changes in the prices of the Company’s and/or competitors’ products, as well as by promotional activities and news cycles. Adverse changes in general market conditions for advertising have affected, and may continue to affect, revenues. Advertising revenues at the News Media segment are also subject to seasonality, with revenues typically being highest in the Company’s second fiscal quarter due to the end-of-year holiday season in its main operating geographies. Operating expenses include costs related to paper, production, distribution, third-party printing, editorial, commissions, technology and radio sports rights. Selling, general and administrative expenses include promotional expenses, salaries, employee benefits, rent and other routine overhead. The cost of paper is a key operating expense whose fluctuations can have a material effect on the results of the segment. The News Media segment’s expenses are affected by the cyclical changes in the price of paper and other factors that may affect paper prices, including, among other things, inflation, supply chain disruptions, industry trends or economics (including the closure or conversion of newsprint mills and consolidation among suppliers) and tariffs. Paper prices remained elevated in fiscal 2024 relative to historical trends due to these factors. 39 The News Media segment’s products compete for readership, audience and advertising with local and national competitors and also compete with other media alternatives in their respective markets. Competition for circulation and subscriptions is based on the content of the products provided, pricing and, from time to time, various promotions. The success of these products also depends upon advertisers’ judgments as to the most effective use of their advertising budgets. Competition for advertising is based upon product reach and engagement, advertising rates, advertiser results, availability of alternative media and quality of consumer demographics. As a result of rapidly changing and evolving technologies (including recent developments in AI, particularly generative AI), distribution platforms and business models, and corresponding changes in consumer behavior, the News Media segment continues to face increasing competition for both circulation and advertising revenue, particularly in its print business. Advertising, in particular, has been impacted by the shift in spending from print to digital, which has increased advertising choices and formats, resulting in audience fragmentation and increased competition. Technologies, standards, regulations, policies and practices have been and will continue to be developed and implemented that make it more difficult to target and measure the effectiveness of digital advertising, which may impact rates or revenues. As multi-platform news providers, the businesses within the News Media segment seek to maximize revenues from a variety of media formats and platforms, including leveraging their content through licensing arrangements with third-party platforms and developing new advertising models, and continue to invest in their digital products. Mobile devices and apps and other technologies provide continued opportunities for the businesses within the News Media segment to make their content available to a new audience of readers, introduce new or different pricing schemes and develop their products to continue to attract advertisers and/or affect the relationship between content providers and consumers. Other The Other segment primarily consists of general corporate overhead expenses, strategy costs and costs related to the U.K. Newspaper Matters. Other Business Developments Announced Headcount Reduction In response to the macroeconomic challenges facing many of the Company’s businesses, the Company implemented cost savings initiatives, including the 5% headcount reduction announced in February 2023. The headcount reduction was substantially completed as of December 31, 2023 and the Company recognized associated cash restructuring charges of approximately $106 million. Based on the actions taken, the Company generated annualized gross cost savings in excess of $160 million, the majority of which was reflected in fiscal 2024. See Note 5—Restructuring Programs in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. Combination of U.K. Printing Operations In October 2023, News UK and DMG Media announced a proposed arrangement to combine certain printing operations of both companies within a separate joint venture. The Company believes this arrangement will help improve the efficiency of News UK and DMG Media’s print operations and establish a sustainable business model for national newspaper printing in the U.K. The arrangement received regulatory approval in March 2024 and the joint venture arrangement was effectuated in June 2024. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, the Company recognized non-cash impairment charges of $22 million related to the write-down of fixed assets associated with the combination. Russian and Ukrainian conflict The Company takes extensive steps to ensure the safety of its journalists and other personnel in Ukraine and Russia. Despite these measures, a reporter for The Wall Street Journal was detained by Russian authorities in March 2023 while on assignment in the country. The Company engaged legal counsel for the reporter and provided continuing support to help facilitate his release in August 2024. The Company prioritizes the health, safety, security and well-being of its employees and will continue to support affected employees in the region. 40 Results of Operations—Fiscal 2024 versus Fiscal 2023 The following table sets forth the Company’s operating results for fiscal 2024 as compared to fiscal 2023. ** not meaningful Revenues —Revenues increased $206 million, or 2%, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 as compared to fiscal 2023. The increase was driven by higher revenues at the Digital Real Estate Services segment primarily due to higher Australian residential revenues at REA Group, partially offset by lower revenues at Move driven by the continued impact of the macroeconomic environment on the U.S. housing market, at the Book Publishing segment primarily due to improved returns in the U.S. and higher digital book sales and at the Dow Jones segment driven by higher professional information business revenues. These increases were partially offset by lower revenues at the News Media segment driven by lower advertising revenues and at the Subscription Video Services segment due to the negative impact of foreign currency fluctuations. The impact of foreign currency fluctuations of the U.S. dollar against local currencies resulted in a revenue decrease of $37 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 as compared to fiscal 2023. The Company calculates the impact of foreign currency fluctuations for businesses reporting in currencies other than the U.S. dollar by multiplying the results for each quarter in the current period by the difference between the average exchange rate for that quarter and the average exchange rate in effect during the corresponding quarter of the prior year and totaling the impact for all quarters in the current period. Operating expenses —Operating expenses decreased $71 million, or 1%, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 as compared to fiscal 2023. The decrease in operating expenses for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 was driven by lower expenses at the Book Publishing segment primarily due to lower manufacturing, freight and distribution costs driven by product mix and the absence of prior year supply chain challenges and inventory and inflationary pressures, at the Dow Jones segment due to lower newsprint, production and distribution costs, at the News Media segment driven by lower production costs at News UK due to lower print volume and newsprint prices and at the Digital Real Estate Services segment primarily due to lower employee costs at Move. These decreases were partially offset by higher expenses at the Subscription Video Services segment driven by higher sports programming rights costs due to contractual increases and costs related to the launch of Hubbl. The Company also benefited from gross cost savings related to the announced 5% headcount reduction initiative. The impact of foreign currency fluctuations of the U.S. dollar against local currencies resulted in an Operating expense decrease of $10 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 as compared to fiscal 2023. 41 Selling, general and administrative —Selling, general and administrative increased $158 million, or 5%, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 as compared to fiscal 2023. The increase in Selling, general and administrative for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 was primarily driven by higher expenses at the Digital Real Estate Services segment largely due to higher employee costs and broker commissions at REA Group and increased marketing spend at Move, at the Dow Jones segment driven by increased technology and marketing spend and at the Book Publishing segment driven by higher employee costs. These increases were partially offset by lower expenses at the Subscription Video Services segment primarily due to lower technology costs. The Company also benefited from gross cost savings related to the announced 5% headcount reduction initiative. The impact of foreign currency fluctuations of the U.S. dollar against local currencies resulted in a Selling, general and administrative decrease of $10 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 as compared to fiscal 2023. Depreciation and amortization —Depreciation and amortization expense increased $20 million, or 3%, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 as compared to fiscal 2023, primarily due to higher depreciation at the Digital Real Estate Services segment. The impact of foreign currency fluctuations of the U.S. dollar against local currencies resulted in a depreciation and amortization expense decrease of $8 million, or 1%, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 as compared to fiscal 2023 . Impairment and restructuring charges —During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, the Company recorded restructuring charges of $94 million and $125 million, respectively. See Note 5—Restructuring Programs in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, the Company recognized non-cash impairment charges of $44 million, primarily related to the write-down of fixed assets associated with the combination of certain U.K. printing operations with those of a third party at the News Media segment. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023, the Company recognized non-cash impairment charges of $25 million related to the impairment of certain indefinite-lived intangible assets during the Company’s annual impairment assessment. See Note 7—Property, Plant and Equipment and Note 8—Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. Equity losses of affiliates —Equity losses of affiliates improved by $121 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 as compared to fiscal 2023, primarily due to the absence of a non-cash write-down of REA Group’s investment in PropertyGuru of approximately $81 million and losses from an investment in an Australian sports wagering venture recognized in the prior year. See Note 6—Investments in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest expense, net —Interest expense, net for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 decreased $15 million, or 15%, as compared to fiscal 2023, driven by higher interest income as a result of higher interest rates on cash balances. See Note 9—Borrowings and Note 11—Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. Other, net —Other, net decreased $31 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 as compared to fiscal 2023. See Note 21—Additional Financial Information in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. Income tax expense —For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, the Company recorded income tax expense of $192 million on pre-tax income of $546 million, resulting in an effective tax rate of 35%, which was higher than the U.S. statutory tax rate. The tax rate was impacted by foreign operations which are subject to higher tax rates, asset impairments and investment write-downs with lower tax benefits and valuation allowances recorded against tax benefits in certain businesses. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023, the Company recorded income tax expense of $143 million on pre-tax income of $330 million, resulting in an effective tax rate of 43%, which was higher than the U.S. statutory tax rate. The tax rate was impacted by foreign operations which are subject to higher tax rates, impairments and valuation allowances recorded against tax benefits in certain businesses. See Note 19—Income Taxes in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. Net income —Net income was $354 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, as compared to $187 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023, an increase of $167 million, or 89%, primarily driven by the factors discussed above. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests —Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests was $88 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, as compared to $38 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023, an increase of $50 million, or 132%, primarily due to the absence of the non-cash write-down of the investment in PropertyGuru in the prior year and higher earnings at REA Group. 42 Segment Analysis Segment EBITDA is the primary measure used by the Company’s chief operating decision maker to evaluate the performance of, and allocate resources within, the Company’s businesses. Segment EBITDA is defined as revenues less operating expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses. Segment EBITDA does not include: depreciation and amortization, impairment and restructuring charges, equity losses of affiliates, interest (expense) income, net, other, net and income tax (expense) benefit. Segment EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies, since companies and investors may differ as to what items should be included in the calculation of Segment EBITDA. Segment EBITDA provides management, investors and equity analysts with a measure to analyze the operating performance of each of the Company’s business segments and its enterprise value against historical data and competitors’ data, although historical results may not be indicative of future results (as operating performance is highly contingent on many factors, including customer tastes and preferences). Total Segment EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure and should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, net income (loss), cash flow and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this measure does not reflect cash available to fund requirements and excludes items, such as depreciation and amortization and impairment and restructuring charges, which are significant components in assessing the Company’s financial performance. The Company believes that the presentation of Total Segment EBITDA provides useful information regarding the Company’s operations and other factors that affect the Company’s reported results. Specifically, the Company believes that by excluding certain one-time or non-cash items such as impairment and restructuring charges and depreciation and amortization, as well as potential distortions between periods caused by factors such as financing and capital structures and changes in tax positions or regimes, the Company provides users of its consolidated financial statements with insight into both its core operations as well as the factors that affect reported results between periods but which the Company believes are not representative of its core business. As a result, users of the Company’s consolidated financial statements are better able to evaluate changes in the core operating results of the Company across different periods. The following table reconciles Net income to Total Segment EBITDA for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023: 43 The following table sets forth the Company’s Revenues and Segment EBITDA by reportable segment for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023: Digital Real Estate Services (16% and 15% of the Company’s consolidated revenues in fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively) For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, revenues at the Digital Real Estate Services segment increased $119 million, or 8%, as compared to fiscal 2023. Revenues at REA Group increased $177 million, or 19%, to $1,114 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 from $937 million in fiscal 2023 primarily due to higher Australian residential revenues driven by price increases, increased depth penetration, favorable geographic mix and growth in national listings, higher financial services revenues, which included the benefit from the absence of a negative valuation adjustment related to expected future trail commissions in the prior year, and higher revenues from REA India. These increases were partially offset by the $28 million, or 3%, negative impact of foreign currency fluctuations. Revenues at Move decreased $58 million, or 10%, to $544 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 from $602 million in fiscal 2023, primarily driven by the continued impact of the macroeconomic environment on the U.S. housing market, including higher interest rates. The market downturn resulted in lower lead volumes, which decreased 3%, and lower transaction volumes. These factors adversely impacted revenues from both the referral model, which includes the ReadyConnect Concierge℠ product, and the core lead generation product. The decline was partially offset by revenue growth in seller, new homes and rentals including the partnership with Zillow. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 , Segment EBITDA at the Digital Real Estate Services segmen t increased $51 million, or 11% , as compared to fiscal 2023, due to an increased contribution from REA Group, partially offset by the adverse impact from Move and the $13 million, or 3%, negative impact of foreign currency fluctuations. The contribution from REA Group increased primarily due to the higher revenues discussed above, partially offset by higher employee costs, higher broker commissions due to higher financial services revenues and the absence of the valuation adjustment related to expected future trail commissions in the prior year and higher costs from REA India. The adverse impact from Move was driven by the lower revenues discussed above and slightly higher costs, primarily due to marketing spend, partially offset by gross cost savings related to the announced 5% headcount reduction initiative. 44 Subscription Video Services (19% and 20% of the Company’s consolidated revenues in fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively) For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, revenues at the Subscription Video Services segment decreased $25 million, or 1%, as compared to fiscal 2023 due to the negative impact of foreign currency fluctuations. Streaming revenues increased $60 million driven by increased volume and pricing at Kayo and BINGE , despite a more difficult summer sports season and inflationary pressures. The increase in streaming revenues along with higher advertising revenues more than offset lower residential subscription revenues resulting from fewer residential broadcast subscribers. Foxtel Group streaming subscription revenues represented approximately 30% of total circulation and subscription revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, as compared to 27% in fiscal 2023. The impact of foreign currency fluctuations of the U.S. dollar against local currencies resulted in a revenue decrease of $52 million, or 2%, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, as compared to fiscal 2023. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, Segment EBITDA decreased $37 million, or 11%, as compared to fiscal 2023 driven by $51 million of costs related to the launch of Hubbl, higher sports programming rights costs due to contractual increases and the $9 million, or 3%, negative impact of foreign currency fluctuations, partially offset by the revenue drivers discussed above and declines in other costs including technology, entertainment programming rights and marketing. The following tables provide information regarding certain key performance indicators for the Foxtel Group, the primary reporting unit within the Subscription Video Services segment, as of and for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023. Management believes these metrics provide useful information to allow investors to understand trends in consumer behavior and acceptance of the various services offered by the Foxtel Group. Management utilizes these metrics to track and forecast subscription revenue trends across the business’s various linear and streaming products. See “Part I. Business” for further detail regarding these performance indicators including definitions and methods of calculation. 45 (a) Subscribing households throughout Australia as of June 30, 2024 and 2023. (b) Commercial subscribers throughout Australia as of June 30, 2024 and 2023. (c) Total and Paid subscribers for the applicable streaming service as of June 30, 2024 and 2023. Paid subscribers excludes customers receiving service for no charge under certain new subscriber promotions. (d) Total subscribers consists of Foxtel Group’s broadcast and streaming services listed above and its news aggregation streaming service. (e) Average monthly broadcast residential subscription revenue per user (Broadcast ARPU) for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023. (f) Broadcast residential subscriber churn rate (Broadcast Subscriber Churn) for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023. Dow Jones (22% of the Company’s consolidated revenues in both fiscal 2024 and 2023) For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, revenues at the Dow Jones segment increased $78 million, or 4%, as compared to fiscal 2023, primarily due to higher professional information business revenues. Digital revenues at the Dow Jones segment represented 80% of total revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, as compared to 78% in fiscal 2023. The impact of foreign currency fluctuations of the U.S. dollar against local currencies resulted in a revenue increase of $7 million, or 1%, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 as compared to fiscal 2023. Circulation and Subscription Revenues Circulation and subscription revenues increased $82 million, or 5%, during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 as compared to fiscal 2023. Professional information business revenues increased $84 million, or 11%, primarily driven by the $41 million increase in Risk & Compliance revenues and the $34 million increase in Dow Jones Energy revenues driven by new products and customers and price increases and the $9 million increase in Other information services revenues due to higher revenues at Factiva. Circulation and other revenues decreased $2 million, driven by print circulation declines and lower content licensing revenues, partially offset by growth in digital-only subscriptions, primarily at The Wall Street Journal , which included a benefit from an increase in bundle offers. Digital revenues represented 71% of circulation revenue for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, as compared to 69% in fiscal 2023. 46 The following table summarizes average daily consumer subscriptions during the three months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 for select publications and for all consumer subscription products. (a) (a) Based on internal data for the periods from April 1, 2024 to June 30, 2024 and April 3, 2023 to July 2, 2023, respectively, with independent verification procedures performed by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP UK. (b) Subscriptions include individual consumer subscriptions, as well as subscriptions purchased by companies, schools, businesses and associations for use by their respective employees, students, customers or members. Subscriptions exclude single-copy sales and copies purchased by hotels, airlines and other businesses for limited distribution or access to customers. (c) For some publications, including The Wall Street Journal and Barron’s , Dow Jones sells bundled print and digital products. For bundles that provide access to both print and digital products every day of the week, only one unit is reported each day and is designated as a print subscription. For bundled products that provide access to the print product only on specified days and full digital access, one print subscription is reported for each day that a print copy is served and one digital subscription is reported for each remaining day of the week. (d) Barron’s Group consists of Barron’s , MarketWatch, Financial News and Private Equity News. (e) Total Consumer consists of The Wall Street Journal , Barron’s Group and Investor’s Business Daily . Advertising Revenues Advertising revenues decreased $8 million, or 2%, during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 as compared to fiscal 2023, primarily due to the $17 million decrease in print advertising revenues, partially offset by the $9 million increase in digital advertising. Digital advertising revenues represented 64% of advertising revenue for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, as compared to 61% in fiscal 2023. Segment EBITDA For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, Segment EBITDA at the Dow Jones segment increased $48 million, or 10%, as compared to fiscal 2023 primarily due to the increase in revenues discussed above and lower newsprint, production and distribution costs, partially offset by higher technology and marketing costs and higher employee costs, which were mitigated by ongoing cost savings initiatives. Book Publishing (21% and 20% of the Company’s consolidated revenues in fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively) 47 For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, revenues at the Book Publishing segment increased $114 million, or 6%, as compared to fiscal 2023, primarily due to improved returns in the U.S. driven by recovering consumer demand industry-wide and the absence of the impact of Amazon’s reset of its inventory levels and rightsizing of its warehouse footprint in the prior year, as well as higher digital book sales. These improvements were partially offset by lower physical book sales. Digital sales increased by 9% as compared to fiscal 2023 driven by strong market growth for audiobooks, including the contribution from the Spotify partnership. Digital sales represented approximately 23% of consumer revenues in fiscal 2024 as compared to 22% in fiscal 2023, and backlist sales represented approximately 61% of consumer revenues during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, as compared to 60% in fiscal 2023. The impact of foreign currency fluctuations of the U.S. dollar against local currencies resu lted in a revenue increase of $16 million, or 1%, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 as compared to fiscal 2023. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, Segment EBITDA at the Book Publishing segment increased $102 million, or 61%, as compared to fiscal 2023, primarily due to the higher revenues discussed above and lower manufacturing, freight and distribution costs driven by product mix and the absence of prior year supply chain challenges and inventory and inflationary pressures, partially offset by higher employee costs. News Media (22% and 23% of the Company’s consolidated revenues in fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively) For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, revenues at the News Media segment decreased $80 million, or 4%, as compared to fiscal 2023. Advertising revenues decreased $73 million, or 8%, as compared to fiscal 2023, primarily due to lower print advertising revenues at News Corp Australia and News UK and lower digital advertising revenues, mainly due to a decline in traffic at some mastheads due to platform-related changes, partially offset by the $5 million, or 1%, positive impact of foreign currency fluctuations. Circulation and subscription revenues increased $10 million, or 1%, as compared to fiscal 2023, due to the $15 million, or 1%, positive impact of foreign currency fluctuations, as cover price increases and digital subscriber growth were more than offset by print volume declines. The impact of foreign currency fluctuations of the U.S. dollar against local currencies resulted in a revenue increase of $20 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 as compared to fiscal 2023 . For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, Segment EBITDA at the News Media segment decreased $36 million, or 23%, as compared to fiscal 2023, which includes $6 million of one-time costs at News UK pertaining to the combination of printing operations with DMG Media. The decrease is primarily due to the adverse impact from News Corp Australia, partially offset by lower production costs at News UK driven by lower print volume and newsprint prices and gross cost savings related to the announced 5% headcount reduction initiative. News Corp Australia Revenues were $929 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, a decrease of $69 million, or 7%, as compared to fiscal 2023 revenues of $998 million. Advertising revenues decreased $46 million, or 11%, due to lower print and digital advertising revenues and the $10 million, or 2%, negative impact of foreign currency fluctuations. Circulation and subscription revenues decreased $21 million, or 5%, driven by print volume declines and the $11 million, or 3%, negative impact of foreign currency fluctuations, partially offset by cover price increases and digital subscriber growth. The impact of foreign currency fluctuations of the U.S. dollar against local currencies resulted in a revenue decrease of $25 million, or 3%, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 as compared to fiscal 2023. 48 News UK Revenues were $929 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, a decrease of $4 million as compared to fiscal 2023 revenues of $933 million. Circulation and subscription revenues increased $33 million, or 6%, driven by cover price increases, the $25 million, or 5%, positive impact of foreign currency fluctuations and digital subscriber growth, partially offset by print volume declines. Advertising revenues decreased $26 million, or 9%, due to lower digital and print advertising revenues , partially offset by the $10 million, or 4%, positive impact of foreign currency fluctuations . The impact of foreign currency fluctuations of the U.S. dollar against local currencies resulted in a revenue increase of $39 million, or 5%, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 as compared to fiscal 2023. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Current Financial Condition The Company’s principal source of liquidity is internally generated funds and cash and cash equivalents on hand. As of June 30, 2024, the Company’s cash and cash equivalents were $1,960 million. The Company also has available borrowing capacity under its revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Facility”) and certain other facilities, as described below, and expects to have access to the worldwide credit and capital markets, subject to market conditions, in order to issue additional debt if needed or desired. The Company currently expects these elements of liquidity will enable it to meet its liquidity needs for at least the next twelve months, including repayment of indebtedness. Although the Company believes that its cash on hand and future cash from operations, together with its access to the credit and capital markets, will provide adequate resources to fund its operating and financing needs for at least the next twelve months, its access to, and the availability of, financing on acceptable terms in the future will be affected by many factors, including: (i) the financial and operational performance of the Company and/or its operating subsidiaries, as applicable; (ii) the Company’s credit ratings and/or the credit rating of its operating subsidiaries, as applicable; (iii) the provisions of any relevant debt instruments, credit agreements, indentures and similar or associated documents; (iv) the liquidity of the overall credit and capital markets; and (v) the state of the economy. There can be no assurances that the Company will continue to have access to the credit and capital markets on acceptable terms. As of June 30, 2024, the Company’s consolidated assets included $975 million in cash and cash equivalents that were held by its foreign subsidiaries. Of this amount, $136 million is cash not readily accessible by the Company as it is held by REA Group, a majority owned but separately listed public company. REA Group must declare a dividend in order for the Company to have access to its share of REA Group’s cash balance. Prior to the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“Tax Act”), the Company’s undistributed foreign earnings were considered permanently reinvested and as such, United States federal and state income taxes were not previously recorded on these earnings. As a result of the Tax Act, substantially all of the Company’s earnings in foreign subsidiaries generated prior to the enactment of the Tax Act were deemed to have been repatriated and taxed accordingly. As of June 30, 2024, the Company has approximately $1 billion of undistributed foreign earnings that it intends to reinvest permanently. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of tax that might be payable if these earnings were repatriated. The Company may repatriate future earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries in which case the Company may be required to accrue and pay additional taxes, including any applicable foreign withholding taxes and income taxes. The principal uses of cash that affect the Company’s liquidity position include the following: operational expenditures including employee costs, paper purchases and programming costs; capital expenditures; income tax payments; investments in associated entities; acquisitions; the repurchase of shares; dividends; and the repayment of debt and related interest. In addition to the acquisitions and dispositions disclosed elsewhere, the Company has evaluated, and expects to continue to evaluate, possible future acquisitions and dispositions of certain businesses. Such transactions may be material and may involve cash, the issuance of the Company’s securities or the assumption of indebtedness. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Company’s Board of Directors (the “Board of Directors”) has authorized a Repurchase Program to purchase up to $1 billion in the aggregate of the Company’s outstanding Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. The manner, timing, number and share price of any repurchases will be determined by the Company at its discretion and will depend upon such factors as the market price of the stock, general market conditions, applicable securities laws, alternative investment opportunities and other factors. The Repurchase Program has no time limit and may be modified, suspended or discontinued at any time. As of June 30, 2024, the remaining authorized amount under the Repurchase Program was approximately $460 million. 49 Stock repurchases under the Repurchase Program commenced on November 9, 2021. The following table summarizes the shares repurchased and subsequently retired and the related consideration paid during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023: Dividends The following table summarizes the dividends declared and paid per share on both the Company’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock: The timing, declaration, amount and payment of future dividends to stockholders, if any, is within the discretion of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors’ decisions regarding the payment of future dividends will depend on many factors, including the Company’s financial condition, earnings, capital requirements and debt facility covenants, other contractual restrictions, as well as legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry practice, market volatility and other factors that the Board of Directors deems relevant. Sources and Uses of Cash—Fiscal 2024 versus Fiscal 2023 Net cash provided by operating activities for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 was as follows (in millions): Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $6 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 as compared to fiscal 2023. The increase was primarily due to higher Total Segment EBITDA, largely offset by higher working capital and higher restructuring payments. Net cash used in investing activities for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 was as follows (in millions): Net cash used in investing activities was $524 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 as compared to net cash used in investing activities of $574 million for fiscal 2023. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, the Company used $496 million of cash for capital expenditures, of which $139 million related to the Foxtel Group, and $134 million of cash for investments and acquisitions. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023, the Company used $499 million of cash for capital expenditures, of which $152 million related to the Foxtel Group, and $120 million of cash for investments and acquisitions. Net cash used in financing activities for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023 was as follows (in millions): The Company had net cash used in financing activities of $441 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 as compared to net cash used in financing activities of $501 million for fiscal 2023. 50 During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, the Company had $1,375 million of borrowing repayments, primarily related to the refinancing of Foxtel and REA Group’s debt portfolios, $117 million of repurchases of outstanding Class A and Class B Common Stock under the Repurchase Program and dividend payments of $172 million to News Corporation stockholders and REA Group minority stockholders. The net cash used in financing activities was partially offset by new borrowings of $1,268 million primarily related to the refinancing of Foxtel and REA Group’s debt portfolios and $53 million related to the net settlement of certain hedges which were terminated in connection with the refinancing at Foxtel. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023, the Company had $589 million of borrowing repayments, primarily related to the Foxtel Group’s 2019 Credit Facility and U.S. private placement senior unsecured notes that matured in July 2022, $243 million of repurchases of outstanding Class A and Class B Common Stock under the Repurchase Program and dividend payments of $174 million to News Corporation stockholders and REA Group minority stockholders. The net cash used in financing activities was partially offset by new borrowings related to the Foxtel Group of $514 million. See Note 9—Borrowings in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. Reconciliation of Free Cash Flow Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure. Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, less capital expenditures. Free cash flow may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies, since companies and investors may differ as to what items should be included in the calculation of free cash flow. Free cash flow does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period and should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, the net change in cash and cash equivalents as presented in the Company’s consolidated Statements of Cash Flows prepared in accordance with GAAP, which incorporates all cash movements during the period. The Company believes free cash flow provides useful information to management and investors about the Company’s liquidity and cash flow trends. The following table presents a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow: Free cash flow in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024 was $602 million compared to $593 million in fiscal 2023. Free cash flow increased primarily due to higher cash provided by operating activities, as discussed above. Borrowings As of June 30, 2024, the Company, certain subsidiaries of NXE Australia Pty Limited (the “Foxtel Group” and together with such subsidiaries, the “Foxtel Debt Group”) and REA Group and certain of its subsidiaries (REA Group and certain of its subsidiaries, the “REA Debt Group”) had total borrowings of $2.9 billion, including the current portion. Both the Foxtel Group and REA Group are consolidated but non wholly-owned subsidiaries of News Corp, and their indebtedness is only guaranteed by members of the Foxtel Debt Group and REA Debt Group, respectively, and is non-recourse to News Corp. News Corporation Borrowings As of June 30, 2024, the Company had (i) borrowings of $1,968 million, consisting of its outstanding 2021 Senior Notes, 2022 Senior Notes and Term A Loans and (ii) $750 million of undrawn commitments available under the Revolving Facility. Foxtel Group Borrowings As of June 30, 2024, the Foxtel Debt Group had (i) borrowings of approximately $784 million, including the amounts outstanding under the 2024 Foxtel Credit Facility (described below), the A$40 million 2017 Working Capital Facility and the Telstra Facility (described below) and (ii) total undrawn commitments of A$200 million available under the 2024 Foxtel Credit Facility and 2017 Working Capital Facility. 51 During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, the Foxtel Group refinanced its A$610 million 2019 revolving credit facility, A$250 million term loan facility and tranche 3 of its 2012 U.S. private placement senior unsecured notes with the proceeds of a new A$1.2 billion syndicated credit facility (the “2024 Foxtel Credit Facility”). The 2024 Foxtel Credit Facility consists of three sub-facilities: (i) an A$817.5 million three year revolving credit facility (the “2024 Foxtel Credit Facility — tranche 1”), (ii) a US$48.7 million four year term loan facility (the “ 2024 Foxtel Credit Facility — tranche 2”) and (iii) an A$311.0 million four year term loan facility (the “2024 Foxtel Credit Facility — tranche 3”). In addition, the Foxtel Group amended its 2017 Working Capital Facility to extend the maturity to August 2026 and modify the pricing. Depending on the Foxtel Group’s net leverage ratio, (i) borrowings under the 2024 Foxtel Credit Facility — tranche 1 and 2017 Working Capital Facility bear interest at a rate of the Australian BBSY plus a margin of between 2.35% and 3.60%; (ii) borrowings under the 2024 Foxtel Credit Facility — tranche 2 bear interest at a rate based on a Term SOFR formula, as set forth in the 2024 Foxtel Credit Agreement, plus a margin of between 2.50% and 3.75%; and (iii) borrowings under the 2024 Foxtel Credit Facility — tranche 3 bear interest at a rate of the Australian BBSY plus a margin of between 2.50% and 3.75%. Tranche 1 carries a commitment fee of 45% of the applicable margin on any undrawn balance. Tranches 2 and 3 of the 2024 Foxtel Credit Facility amortize on a proportionate basis in an aggregate annual amount equal to A$35 million in each of the first two years following closing and A$40 million in each of the two years thereafter. The agreements governing the Foxtel Debt Group’s external borrowings contain customary affirmative and negative covenants and events of default, with customary exceptions, including specified non-financial covenants and financial covenants calculated in accordance with Australian International Financial Reporting Standards. Subject to certain exceptions, these covenants restrict or prohibit members of the Foxtel Debt Group from, among other things, undertaking certain transactions, disposing of certain properties or assets (including subsidiary stock), merging or consolidating with any other person, making financial accommodation available, giving guarantees, entering into certain other financing arrangements, creating or permitting certain liens, engaging in transactions with affiliates, making repayments of certain other loans, undergoing fundamental business changes and making restricted payments. In addition, the agreements require the Foxtel Debt Group to maintain a ratio of net debt to Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortization, as adjusted under the applicable agreements, of not more than 3.25 to 1.0. The agreements also require the Foxtel Debt Group to maintain a net interest coverage ratio of not less than 3.5 to 1.0. There are no assets pledged as collateral for any of the borrowings. In addition to third-party indebtedness, the Foxtel Debt Group has related party indebtedness consisting of A$596 million of outstanding principal (excluding capitalized interest) of subordinated shareholder loans as of June 30, 2024. The shareholder loans bear interest at a variable rate of the Australian BBSY plus an applicable margin ranging from 6.30% to 7.75% and mature in December 2027. Amounts outstanding under the shareholder loans are permitted to be repaid if (i) no actual or potential event of default exists both before and immediately after repayment and (ii) the net debt to EBITDA ratio of the Foxtel Debt Group was on the most recent covenant calculation date, and would be immediately after the cash repayment, less than or equal to 2.25 to 1.0. In the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, the Foxtel Debt Group repaid A$104 million of outstanding principal of shareholder loans. Additionally, the Foxtel Debt Group has an A$170 million subordinated shareholder loan facility with Telstra which can be used to finance cable transmission costs due to Telstra. The Telstra Facility bears interest at a variable rate of the Australian BBSY plus an applicable margin of 7.75% and matures in December 2027. The Company excludes the utilization of the Telstra Facility from the Statements of Cash Flows because it is non-cash. REA Group Borrowings As of June 30, 2024, REA Group had (i) borrowings of approximately $134 million, consisting of amounts outstanding under the 2024 REA Credit Facility (described below) and 2024 Subsidiary Facility (described below) and (ii) A$481 million of undrawn commitments available under the 2024 REA Credit Facility and the 2024 Subsidiary Facility. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, REA Group entered into a new unsecured syndicated credit facility (the “2024 REA Credit Facility”) which replaced the 2022 Credit Facility and consists of two sub-facilities: (i) a five-year A$400 million revolving loan facility (the “2024 REA Credit Facility—tranche 1”) which was used to refinance tranche 1 of the 2022 Credit Facility and (ii) an A$200 million revolving loan facility representing the continuation of tranche 2 of the 2022 Credit Facility (the “2024 REA Credit Facility—tranche 2”). REA Group may request increases in the amount of the 2024 REA Credit Facility up to a maximum amount of A$500 million, subject to the terms and limitations set forth in the syndicated facility agreement. Borrowings under the 2024 REA Credit Facility — tranche 1 accrue interest at a rate of the Australian BBSY plus a margin of between 1.45% and 2.35%, depending on REA Group’s net leverage ratio. Borrowings under the 2024 REA Credit Facility — tranche 2 continue to accrue interest at a rate of the Australian BBSY plus a margin of between 1.15% and 2.25%, depending on REA Group’s net leverage ratio. Both tranches carry a commitment fee of 40% of the applicable margin on any undrawn balance. 52 The syndicated facility agreement governing the 2024 REA Credit Facility requires REA Group to maintain (i) a net leverage ratio of not more than 3.5 to 1.0 and (ii) an interest coverage ratio of not less than 3.0 to 1.0. The agreement also contains certain other customary affirmative and negative covenants and events of default. Subject to certain exceptions, these covenants restrict or prohibit REA Group and its subsidiaries from, among other things, incurring or guaranteeing debt, disposing of certain properties or assets, merging or consolidating with any other person, making financial accommodation available, entering into certain other financing arrangements, creating or permitting certain liens, engaging in non-arms’ length transactions with affiliates, undergoing fundamental business changes and making restricted payments. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, REA Group also entered into an A$83 million unsecured bilateral revolving credit facility (the “2024 Subsidiary Facility”). Proceeds of the 2024 Subsidiary Facility were used to refinance an existing facility at one of its subsidiaries and to fund its business of providing short-term financing to real estate agents and vendors. Borrowings under the 2024 Subsidiary Facility accrue interest at a rate of the Australian BBSY plus a margin of 1.40% and undrawn balances carry a commitment fee of 40% of the applicable margin. The facility agreement governing the 2024 Subsidiary Facility permits the lender to cancel its commitment and declare all outstanding amounts immediately due and payable after a consultation period in specified circumstances, including if certain key operating measures of its subsidiary fall below the budgeted amount for two consecutive quarters. The agreement also contains certain other customary affirmative and negative covenants and events of default that are similar to those governing the 2024 REA Credit Facility. All of the Company’s borrowings contain customary representations, covenants and events of default. The Company was in compliance with all such covenants at June 30, 2024. See Note 9—Borrowings in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements for further details regarding the Company’s outstanding debt, including additional information about interest rates, amortization (if any), maturities and covenants related to such debt arrangements. Commitments The Company has commitments under certain firm contractual arrangements to make future payments. These firm commitments secure the current and future rights to various assets and services to be used in the normal course of operations. The following table summarizes the Company’s material firm commitments as of June 30, 2024: (a) The Company has commitments under purchase obligations related to minimum subscriber guarantees for license fees, printing contracts, capital projects, marketing agreements, production services and other legally binding commitments. (b) The Company has sports programming rights commitments with the National Rugby League, Australian Football League and Cricket Australia, as well as certain other broadcast rights, which are payable through fiscal 2032. (c) The Company has programming rights commitments with various suppliers for programming content. (d) The Company leases office facilities, warehouse facilities, printing plants, satellite services and equipment. These leases, which are classified as operating leases, are expected to be paid at certain dates through fiscal 2048. Amounts reflected represent only the Company’s lease obligations for which it has firm commitments. 53 (e) The Company has contractual commitments for satellite transmission services. The Company’s satellite transponder services arrangements extend through fiscal 2032 and are accounted for as operating or finance leases, based on the underlying terms of those arrangements. (f) See Note 9—Borrowings in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. (g) Reflects the Company’s expected future interest payments based on borrowings outstanding and interest rates applicable at June 30, 2024. Such rates are subject to change in future periods. See Note 9—Borrowings in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company has certain contracts to purchase newsprint, ink and plates that require the Company to purchase a percentage of its total requirements for production. Since the quantities purchased annually under these contracts are not fixed and are based on the Company’s total requirements, the amount of the related payments for these purchases is excluded from the table above. The table also excludes the Company’s pension obligations, other postretirement benefits (“OPEB”) obligations and the liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions as the Company is unable to reasonably predict the ultimate amount and timing of the commitments. The Company made contributions of $23 million and $14 million to its pension plans in fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023, respectively. Future plan contributions are dependent upon actual plan asset returns, interest rates and statutory requirements. The Company anticipates that it will make required contributions of approximately $1 million in fiscal 2025, assuming that actual plan asset returns are consistent with the Company’s returns in fiscal 2024 and those expected beyond, and that interest rates remain constant. The Company will continue to make voluntary contributions as necessary to improve the funded status of the plans. Payments due to participants under the Company’s pension plans are primarily paid out of underlying trusts. Payments due under the Company’s OPEB plans are not required to be funded in advance, but are paid as medical costs are incurred by covered retiree populations, and are principally dependent upon the future cost of retiree medical benefits under the Company’s OPEB plans. The Company expects its OPEB payments to approximate $7 million in fiscal 2025. See Note 17—Retirement Benefit Obligations and Note 18—Other Postretirement Benefits in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. Other significant ongoing expenses or cash requirements for each of the Company’s segments are discussed above in “Overview of the Company’s Businesses.” The Company generally expects to fund these short and long-term cash requirements with internally-generated funds and cash and cash equivalents on hand. Contingencies The Company routinely is involved in various legal proceedings, claims and governmental inspections or investigations, including those discussed in Note 16—Commitments and Contingencies in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. The outcome of these matters and claims is subject to significant uncertainty, and the Company often cannot predict what the eventual outcome of pending matters will be or the timing of the ultimate resolution of these matters. Fees, expenses, fines, penalties, judgments or settlement costs which might be incurred by the Company in connection with the various proceedings could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. The Company establishes an accrued liability for legal claims when it determines that a loss is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Once established, accruals are adjusted from time to time, as appropriate, in light of additional information. The amount of any loss ultimately incurred in relation to matters for which an accrual has been established may be higher or lower than the amounts accrued for such matters. Legal fees associated with litigation and similar proceedings are expensed as incurred. The Company recognizes gain contingencies when the gain becomes realized or realizable. See Note 16—Commitments and Contingencies in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES An accounting policy is considered to be critical if it is important to the Company’s financial condition and results of operations and if it requires significant judgment and estimates on the part of management in its application. The development and selection of these critical accounting policies have been determined by management of the Company. See Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets The Company tests goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis in the fourth quarter and at other times if a significant event or change in circumstances indicates that it is more likely than not that the fair value of these assets has been reduced below their carrying value. The Company uses its judgment in assessing whether assets may have become impaired between annual impairment assessments. Indicators such as unexpected adverse economic factors, unanticipated technological changes or competitive activities, loss of key personnel and acts by governments and courts, may signal that an asset has become impaired. 54 Under ASC 350, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other (“ASC 350”) , in assessing goodwill for impairment, the Company has the option to first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether events or circumstances exist that lead to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If the Company determines that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the Company is not required to perform any additional tests in assessing goodwill for impairment. However, if the Company concludes otherwise or elects not to perform the qualitative assessment, then it is required to perform a quantitative analysis to determine the fair value of the reporting unit, and compare the calculated fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. The Company determines the fair value of a reporting unit primarily by using both a discounted cash flow analysis and market-based valuation approach. Determining fair value requires the exercise of significant judgments, including judgments about appropriate discount rates, long-term growth rates, relevant comparable company earnings multiples and the amount and timing of expected future cash flows. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024, as part of the Company’s long-range planning process, the Company completed its annual goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment test. The performance of the Company’s annual impairment analysis resulted in $18 million of impairments to an indefinite-lived intangible asset and goodwill in fiscal 2024. Significant unobservable inputs utilized in the income approach valuation method were discount rates (ranging from 8.0% to 18.5%), long-term growth rates (ranging from 1.0% to 3.5%) and royalty rates (ranging from 0.25% to 7.0%). Significant unobservable inputs utilized in the market approach valuation method were EBITDA and revenue multiples from guideline public companies operating in similar industries (ranging from 5.5x to 11.8x and 2.0x to 2.8x, respectively) and control premiums (ranging from 5.0% to 10.0%). Significant increases (decreases) in royalty rates, growth rates, control premiums and multiples, assuming no change in discount rates, would result in a significantly higher (lower) fair value measurement. Significant decreases (increases) in discount rates, assuming no changes in royalty rates, growth rates, control premiums and multiples, would result in a significantly higher (lower) fair value measurement. See Note 8—Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements for further details regarding changes in these inputs and assumptions compared to prior fiscal years. As of June 30, 2024, there were no reporting units with goodwill at-risk for future impairment. The Company will continue to monitor its goodwill for possible future impairment. Programming Costs Costs incurred in acquiring programming rights are accounted for in accordance with ASC 920, Entertainment—Broadcasters (“ASC 920”). Programming rights and the related liabilities are recorded at the gross amount of the liabilities when the license period has begun, the cost of the program is determinable and the program is accepted and available for airing. Programming costs are amortized based on the expected pattern of consumption over the license period or expected useful life of each program, which requires significant judgment. The pattern of consumption is based primarily on consumer viewership information as well as other factors. If initial airings are expected to generate higher viewership, an accelerated method of amortization is used. The Company monitors its programming amortization policy on an ongoing basis and any impact arising from changes to the policy would be recognized prospectively. The Company regularly reviews its programming assets for events or changes in circumstances that would indicate that the fair value of the programming asset may be less than its unamortized cost. Changes in circumstances may result in a write-down of the asset to fair value. The Company has single and multi-year contracts for broadcast rights of sporting events. The costs of sports contracts are primarily charged to expense over the respective season as events are aired. For sports contracts with dedicated channels, the Company amortizes the sports programming rights costs over 12 months. Income Taxes The Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions in which it operates and records its tax provision for the anticipated tax consequences in its reported results of operations. Tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and respective governmental taxing authorities. Significant judgment is required in determining the Company’s tax expense and in evaluating its tax positions including evaluating uncertainties as promulgated under ASC 740, Income Taxes (“ASC 740”). 55 The Company’s annual tax rate is based primarily on its geographic income and statutory tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which it operates. Significant management judgment is required in determining the Company’s provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities and the valuation allowance recorded against the Company’s deferred tax assets. In assessing the likelihood of realization of deferred tax assets, management considers estimates of the amount and character of future taxable income. The Company’s actual effective tax rate and income tax expense could vary from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of various items, including changes in income tax laws, tax planning and the Company’s forecasted financial condition and results of operations in future periods. Although the Company believes its current estimates are reasonable, actual results could differ from these estimates. The Company recognizes tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the Consolidated Financial Statements from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Significant management judgment is required to determine whether the recognition threshold has been met and, if so, the appropriate amount of unrecognized tax benefits to be recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Management re-evaluates its tax positions each period in which new information about recognition or measurement becomes available. The Company’s policy is to recognize, when applicable, interest and penalties on unrecognized income tax benefits as part of Income tax (expense) benefit. See Note 19—Income Taxes in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements for further details regarding these estimates and assumptions and changes compared to prior fiscal years. Retirement Benefit Obligations The Company’s employees participate in various defined benefit pension and postretirement plans sponsored by the Company and its subsidiaries. See Note 17—Retirement Benefit Obligations in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company records amounts relating to its pension and other postretirement benefit plans based on calculations specified by GAAP. The measurement and recognition of the Company’s pension and other postretirement benefit plans, including the net periodic benefit costs (income) and projected benefit obligation, require the use of significant management judgments, including discount rates, expected return on plan assets, mortality and other actuarial assumptions. Current market conditions, including changes in investment returns and interest rates, were considered in making these assumptions. In developing the expected long-term rate of return, the pension portfolio’s past average rate of returns and future return expectations of the various asset classes were considered. The weighted average expected long-term rate of return of 5.9% for fiscal 2025 is based on a weighted average target asset allocation assumption of 14% equities, 83% fixed-income securities and 3% cash and other investments. The Company recorded $28 million and $13 million in net periodic benefit costs (income) in the Statements of Operations for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. The Company utilizes the full yield-curve approach to estimate the service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit costs (income) for its pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Although the discount rate used for each plan will be established and applied individually, a weighted average discount rate of 5.3% will be used in calculating the fiscal 2025 net periodic benefit costs (income). The discount rate reflects the market rate for high-quality fixed-income investments on the Company’s annual measurement date of June 30 and is subject to change each fiscal year. The discount rate assumptions used to account for pension and other postretirement benefit plans reflect the rates at which the benefit obligations could be effectively settled. The rate was determined by matching the Company’s expected benefit payments for the plans to a hypothetical yield curve developed using a portfolio of several hundred high-quality non-callable corporate bonds. The weighted average discount rate is volatile from year to year because it is determined based upon the prevailing rates in the U.S., the U.K., Australia and other foreign countries as of the measurement date. 56 The key assumptions used in developing the Company’s fiscal 2024 and 2023 net periodic benefit costs (income) for its plans consist of the following: The Company will use a weighted average long-term rate of return of 5.9% for fiscal 2025 based principally on a combination of current asset mix and an expectation of future long term investment returns. The accumulated net pre-tax losses on the Company’s pension plans as of June 30, 2024 were approximately $438 million which decreased from approximately $467 million for the Company’s pension plans as of June 30, 2023. This net decrease of $29 million was primarily due to unrecognized losses amortized during fiscal 2024 and the settlement of certain plans. Lower discount rates increase present values of benefit obligations, the Company’s deferred losses and subsequent-year benefit costs. Higher discount rates decrease the present values of benefit obligations, reduce the Company’s accumulated net loss and decrease subsequent-year benefit costs. These deferred losses are being systematically recognized in future net periodic benefit costs (income) in accordance with ASC 715, Compensation—Retirement Benefits (“ASC 715”). Unrecognized losses for the primary plans in excess of 10% of the greater of the market-related value of plan assets or the plan’s projected benefit obligation are recognized over the average life expectancy for plan participants for the primary plans. The Company made contributions of $23 million and $14 million to its pension plans in fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively. Future plan contributions are dependent upon actual plan asset returns, statutory requirements and interest rate movements. Assuming that actual plan asset returns are consistent with the Company’s returns in fiscal 2024 and those expected beyond, and that interest rates remain constant, the Company anticipates that it will make required pension contributions of approximately $1 million in fiscal 2025. The Company will continue to make voluntary contributions as necessary to improve the funded status of the plans. See Note 17—Retirement Benefit Obligations and Note 18—Other Postretirement Benefits in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. Changes in net periodic benefit costs may occur in the future due to changes in the Company’s expected rate of return on plan assets and discount rate resulting from economic events. The following table highlights the sensitivity of the Company’s pension obligations and expense to changes in these assumptions, assuming all other assumptions remain constant: