********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Risks related to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic The extent to which the coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak and measures taken in response thereto could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and are difficult to predict. The COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken in response have adversely impacted the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The novel strain of the coronavirus identified in China in late 2019 has globally spread throughout other areas such as Asia, Europe, the Middle East, and North America and has resulted in authorities implementing numerous measures to try to contain the virus, such as travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter in place orders, and shutdowns. These measures have adversely impacted and may further impact our workforce and operations, the operations of our customers, and those of our respective vendors and suppliers. We have significant manufacturing operations in China, Malaysia, Thailand, Singapore, Taiwan, The Netherlands and the U.S., and each of these countries has been affected by the outbreak and taken measures to try to contain it. There is considerable uncertainty regarding such measures and potential future measures, and restrictions on our access to our manufacturing facilities or on our support operations or workforce, or similar limitations for our vendors and suppliers, and restrictions or disruptions of transportation, such as reduced availability of air transport, port closures, and increased border controls or closures, could limit our capacity to meet customer demand and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The outbreak has significantly increased economic and demand uncertainty. We experienced a significant decline in revenue in the first half of 2020 related to the COVID-19 outbreak and then a swift rebound in demand beginning in the third quarter of 2020 and accelerating through the fourth quarter of 2021. The situation remains uncertain and the continued spread of COVID-19 or variants of COVID-19 may result in another economic 1 The contents of our website and our Corporate Sustainability Report and Sustainability Policy are referenced for general information only and are not incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. 15 slowdown similar or worse than what we experienced in the first half of 2020, including the possibility that it could lead to a global recession. Risks related to a slowdown or recession are described in our risk factor titled “Significantly increased volatility and instability and unfavorable economic conditions may adversely affect our business” below. The spread of COVID-19 caused us to modify our business practices (including employee travel, employee work locations, and cancellation of physical participation in meetings, events and conferences), and we may reinstitute these and additional measures as may be required by government authorities or that we determine are in the best interests of our employees, customers, partners, and suppliers as we continue to respond to the COVID-19 situation in the communities in which we operate. There is no certainty that such measures will be sufficient to mitigate the risks posed by the virus, and our ability to perform critical functions could be harmed. The degree to which COVID-19 adversely impacts our future results will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including, but not limited to, the duration and spread of the outbreak, its severity, the actions to contain the virus or treat its impact, and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume. Even after the COVID-19 outbreak has subsided, we may experience material adverse impacts to our business as a result of the global economic impact and any recession that has occurred or may occur in the future. To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic adversely affects our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, it may also heighten many of the other risks described below. There are no comparable recent events that provide guidance as to the effect the spread of COVID-19 as a global pandemic may have, and, as a result, the ultimate impact of the outbreak on our operations and financial results is highly uncertain and subject to change. Risks related to the semiconductor industry and the markets in which we participate The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical. Historically, the relationship between supply and demand in the semiconductor industry has caused a high degree of cyclicality in the semiconductor market. Semiconductor supply is partly driven by manufacturing capacity, which in the past has demonstrated alternating periods of substantial capacity additions and periods in which no or limited capacity was added. As a general matter, semiconductor companies are more likely to add capacity in periods when current or expected future demand is strong and margins are, or are expected to be, high. Investments in new capacity can result in overcapacity, which can lead to a reduction in prices and margins. In response, companies typically limit further capacity additions, eventually causing the market to be relatively undersupplied. In addition, demand for semiconductors varies, which can exacerbate the effect of supply fluctuations. As a result of this cyclicality, the semiconductor industry has in the past experienced significant downturns, such as in 1997/1998, 2001/2002 and in 2008/2009, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing life cycles of semiconductor companies’ products and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminishing demand for end-user products, high inventory levels, under-utilization of manufacturing capacity and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. The foregoing risks have historically had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Significantly increased volatility and instability and unfavorable economic conditions may adversely affect our business. It is difficult for us, our customers and suppliers to forecast demand trends. We may be unable to accurately predict the extent or duration of cycles or their effect on our financial condition or result of operations and can give no assurance as to the timing, extent or duration of the current or future business cycles generally, or specific to the markets in which we participate. In the first half of 2020, demand in the automotive market steeply declined as a result of manufacturing shutdowns by automotive OEMs due to the coronavirus pandemic, resulting in an unforeseen negative impact to our results of operations. Beginning in the third quarter of 2020, demand rebounded more quickly than anticipated and accelerated through the fourth quarter of 2021, resulting in our inability to fully satisfy customer demand. In 2008 and 2009, Europe, the United States and international markets experienced increased volatility and instability related to the global financial crisis. In the event of a future decline in global economic conditions, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected, and the resulting economic decline might disproportionately affect the markets in which we participate, further exacerbating a decline in our results of operations. 16 The semiconductor industry is highly competitive. If we fail to introduce new technologies and products in a timely manner, this could adversely affect our business. The semiconductor industry is highly competitive and characterized by constant and rapid technological change, short product lifecycles, significant price erosion and evolving standards. Accordingly, the success of our business depends to a significant extent on our ability to develop new technologies and products that are ultimately successful in the market. The costs related to the research and development necessary to develop new technologies and products are significant and any reduction of our research and development budget could harm our competitiveness. Meeting evolving industry requirements and introducing new products to the market in a timely manner and at prices that are acceptable to our customers are significant factors in determining our competitiveness and success. Commitments to develop new products must be made well in advance of any resulting sales, and technologies and standards may change during development, potentially rendering our products outdated or noncompetitive before their introduction. If we are unable to successfully develop new products, our revenue may decline substantially. Moreover, some of our competitors are well-established entities, are larger than us and have greater resources than we do. If these competitors increase the resources they devote to developing and marketing their products, we may not be able to compete effectively. Any consolidation among our competitors could enhance their product offerings and financial resources, further strengthening their competitive position. In addition, some of our competitors operate in narrow business areas relative to us, allowing them to concentrate their research and development efforts directly on products and services for those areas, which may give them a competitive advantage. As a result of these competitive pressures, we may face declining sales volumes or lower prevailing prices for our products, and we may not be able to reduce our total costs in line with this declining revenue. If any of these risks materialize, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The demand for our products depends to a significant degree on the demand for our customers’ end products. The vast majority of our revenue is derived from sales to manufacturers in the automotive, industrial & IoT, mobile, and communication infrastructure. Demand in these markets fluctuates significantly, driven by consumer spending, consumer preferences, the development of new technologies and prevailing economic conditions. In addition, the specific products in which our semiconductors are incorporated may not be successful, or may experience price erosion or other competitive factors that affect the price manufacturers are willing to pay us. Such customers have in the past, and may in the future, vary order levels significantly from period to period, request postponements to scheduled delivery dates, modify their orders or reduce lead times. This is particularly common during periods of low demand. This can make managing our business difficult, as it limits the predictability of future revenue. It can also affect the accuracy of our financial forecasts. Furthermore, developing industry trends, including customers’ use of outsourcing and new and revised supply chain models, may affect our revenue, costs and working capital requirements. If customers do not purchase products made specifically for them, we may not be able to resell such products to other customers or may not be able to require the customers who have ordered these products to pay a cancellation fee. The foregoing risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The semiconductor industry is characterized by continued price erosion, especially after a product has been on the market. One of the results of the rapid innovation in the semiconductor industry is that pricing pressure, especially on products containing older technology, can be intense. Product life cycles are relatively short, and as a result, products tend to be replaced by more technologically advanced substitutes on a regular basis. In turn, demand for older technology falls, causing the price at which such products can be sold to drop, in some cases precipitously. In order to continue profitably supplying these products, we must reduce our production costs in line with the lower revenue we can expect to generate per unit. Usually, this must be accomplished through improvements in process technology and production efficiencies. If we cannot advance our process technologies or improve our efficiencies to a degree sufficient to maintain required margins, we will no longer be able to make a profit from the sale of these products. Moreover, we may not be able to cease production of such products, either due to contractual obligations or for customer relationship reasons, and as a result may be required to bear a loss on such products. We cannot guarantee that competition in our core product markets will not lead to price erosion, lower revenue or lower margins in the future. Should reductions in our 17 manufacturing costs fail to keep pace with reductions in market prices for the products we sell, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks related to our business operations In many of the market segments in which we compete, we depend on winning selection processes, and failure to be selected could adversely affect our business in those market segments. One of our business strategies is to participate in and win competitive bid selection processes to develop products for use in our customers’ equipment and products. These selection processes can be lengthy and require us to incur significant design and development expenditures, with no guarantee of winning a contract or generating revenue. Failure to win new design projects and delays in developing new products with anticipated technological advances or in commencing volume shipments of these products may have an adverse effect on our business. This risk is particularly pronounced in markets where there are only a few potential customers and in the automotive market, where, due to the longer design cycles involved, failure to win a design-in could prevent access to a customer for several years. Our failure to win a sufficient number of these bids could result in reduced revenue and hurt our competitive position in future selection processes because we may not be perceived as being a technology or industry leader, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our global business operations expose us to international business risks that could adversely affect our business. If any of the following international business risks were to materialize or become worse, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: • negative economic developments in economies around the world and the instability of governments and international trade arrangements, such as the increase of barriers to international trade including the imposition of tariffs on imports by the United States and China, the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union and the sovereign debt crisis in certain European countries; • social and political instability in a number of countries around the world, including continued hostilities and civil unrest in the Middle East. The instability may have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and operations via our customers and volatility in energy prices and the financial markets; • potential terrorist attacks; • epidemics and pandemics, such as the coronavirus outbreak, which may adversely affect our workforce, as well as our suppliers and customers; • adverse changes in governmental policies, especially those affecting trade and investment; • volatility in foreign currency exchange rates, in particular with respect to the U.S. dollar, and transfer restrictions, in particular in China; and • threats that our operations or property could be subject to nationalization and expropriation. Goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets represent a significant portion of our total assets, and we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. Goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets are recorded at fair value on the date of an acquisition. As a result of our acquisition of Marvell’s Wireless WiFi Connectivity Business Unit, Bluetooth technology portfolio and related assets in 2019, we recognized goodwill of $1.1 billion and intangible assets of $0.5 billion. We review our goodwill and other intangible assets balance for impairment upon any indication of a potential impairment, and in the case of goodwill, at a minimum of once a year. Impairment may result from, among other things, a sustained decrease in share price, deterioration in performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the products and services we sell, challenges to the validity of certain registered intellectual property, reduced sales of certain products incorporating intellectual property and a variety of other factors. The amount of any quantified impairment must be expensed immediately as a charge to results of operations. Depending on future circumstances, it is possible that we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. Any future determination of impairment of goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and stockholders’ equity. 18 In difficult market conditions, our high fixed costs combined with low revenue may negatively affect our results of operations. The semiconductor industry is characterized by high fixed costs and, notwithstanding our utilization of third-party manufacturing capacity, our production requirements are in part met by our own manufacturing facilities. In less favorable industry environments, like we faced in the first half of 2020, we are generally faced with a decline in the utilization rates of our manufacturing facilities due to decreases in demand for our products. During such periods, our fabrication plants could operate at lower loading level, while the fixed costs associated with the full capacity continue to be incurred, resulting in lower gross profit. We may from time to time restructure parts of our organization. Any such restructuring may impact customer satisfaction and the costs of implementation may be difficult to predict. We have previously executed restructuring initiatives and continue to assess, restructure and make changes to parts of the processes in our organization. If the global economy remains volatile, our revenues could decline and we may be forced to take cost savings steps that could result in additional charges and materially affect our business. The costs of implementing any restructurings, changes or cost savings steps may differ from our estimates and any negative impacts on our revenues or otherwise of such restructurings, changes or steps, such as situations in which customer satisfaction is negatively impacted, may be larger than originally estimated. If we fail to extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements and social plans with our labor unions as they expire from time to time, if regular or statutory consultation processes with employee representatives such as works councils fail or are delayed, or if our unionized employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, our business and operating results could be materially harmed. We are a party to collective bargaining agreements and social plans with our labor unions. We are also required to consult with our employee representatives, such as works councils, on items such as restructurings, acquisitions and divestitures. Although we believe that our relations with our employees, employee representatives and unions are satisfactory, no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully extend or renegotiate these agreements as they expire from time to time or to conclude the consultation processes in a timely and favorable way. The impact of future negotiations and consultation processes with employee representatives could have a material impact on our financial results. Also, if we fail to extend or renegotiate our labor agreements and social plans, if significant disputes with our unions arise, or if our unionized workers engage in a strike or other work stoppage, we could incur higher ongoing labor costs or experience a significant disruption of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our working capital needs are difficult to predict. Our working capital needs are difficult to predict and may fluctuate. The comparatively long period between the time at which we commence development of a product and the time at which it may be delivered to a customer leads to high inventory and work-in-progress levels. The volatility of our customers’ own businesses and the time required to manufacture products also makes it difficult to manage inventory levels and requires us to stockpile products across many different specifications. Our business may be adversely affected by costs relating to product defects, and we could be faced with product liability and warranty claims. We make highly complex electronic components and, accordingly, there is a risk that defects may occur in any of our products. Such defects can give rise to significant costs, including expenses relating to recalling products, replacing defective items, writing down defective inventory and loss of potential sales. In addition, the occurrence of such defects may give rise to product liability and warranty claims, including liability for damages caused by such defects. If we release defective products into the market, our reputation could suffer and we may lose sales opportunities and incur liability for damages. Moreover, since the cost of replacing defective semiconductor devices is often much higher than the value of the devices themselves, we may at times face damage claims from customers in excess of the amounts they pay us for our products, including consequential damages. We also face exposure to potential liability resulting from the fact that our customers typically integrate the semiconductors we sell into numerous consumer products, which are then sold into the marketplace. We are exposed to product liability claims if our semiconductors or the consumer products based on them malfunction and result in personal injury or death. We may be named in product liability claims even if there is no evidence that our products caused the damage in question, and such claims could result in significant costs 19 and expenses relating to attorneys’ fees and damages. In addition, our customers may recall their products if they prove to be defective or make compensatory payments in accordance with industry or business practice or in order to maintain good customer relationships. If such a recall or payment is caused by a defect in one of our products, our customers may seek to recover all or a portion of their losses from us. If any of these risks materialize, our reputation would be harmed and there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face risks related to security vulnerabilities in our products. We and third parties regularly identify security vulnerabilities with respect to our products and services. The same holds for the operating systems and workloads that run on them and the components that interact with them. Components and IP we purchase or license from third parties for use in our products, as well as industry-standard specifications we implement in our products, are also regularly subject to security vulnerabilities. As we have become a more data-centric company, our processors and other products are being used in additional and new and critical application areas that create new or increased cybersecurity, privacy or safety risks. This includes applications that gather and process large amounts of data, such as the cloud or Internet of Things, and critical infrastructure and automotive applications. We, our customers, and the users of our products do not always promptly learn of or have the ability to fully assess the magnitude or effects of a vulnerability, including the extent, if any, to which a vulnerability has been exploited. Additionally, new information can subsequently develop that may impact our assessment of a security vulnerability, including additional information learned as we develop and deploy mitigations or updates, become aware of additional variants and evaluate the competitiveness of existing and new products. Security vulnerabilities and any limitations of, or adverse effects resulting from, mitigation techniques can adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, sales, branding, customer relationships, share price, prospects, and reputation in a number of ways, any of which may be material. Adverse publicity about security vulnerabilities or mitigations could damage our reputation with customers or users and reduce demand for our products and services. These effects may be greater to the extent that competing products are not susceptible to the same vulnerabilities or if vulnerabilities can be more effectively mitigated in competing products. Moreover, third parties can release information regarding potential vulnerabilities of our products before mitigations are available. This, in turn, could lead to attempted or successful exploits, adversely affect our ability to introduce mitigations, or otherwise harm our business and reputation. Our business has suffered, and could in the future suffer, from manufacturing problems. We manufacture, in our own factories as well as with third parties, our products using processes that are highly complex, require advanced and costly equipment and must continuously be modified to improve yields and performance. Difficulties in the production process can reduce yields or interrupt production, and, as a result of such problems, we may on occasion not be able to deliver products or do so in a timely or cost-effective or competitive manner. As the complexity of both our products and our fabrication processes has become more advanced, manufacturing tolerances have been reduced and requirements for precision have become more demanding. As is common in the semiconductor industry, we have in the past experienced manufacturing difficulties that have given rise to delays in delivery and quality control problems. There can be no assurance that any such occurrence in the future would not materially harm our results of operations. Further, we may suffer disruptions in our manufacturing operations, either due to production difficulties such as those described above or as a result of external factors beyond our control, such as the disruption to our Austin, Texas manufacturing facilities caused by the February 2021 winter storm. We may, in the future, experience manufacturing difficulties or permanent or temporary loss of manufacturing capacity due to the preceding or other risks. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on the timely supply of equipment and materials and could suffer if suppliers fail to meet their delivery obligations or raise prices. Certain equipment and materials needed in our manufacturing operations are only available from a limited number of suppliers. Our manufacturing operations depend on deliveries of equipment and materials in a timely manner and, in some cases, on a just-in-time basis. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit the amounts supplied to us or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Supply disruptions may also occur due to shortages in critical materials, such as silicon wafers or specialized chemicals. Because the equipment that 20 we purchase is complex, it is frequently difficult or impossible for us to substitute one piece of equipment for another or replace one type of material with another. A failure by our suppliers to deliver our requirements could result in disruptions to our manufacturing operations. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of quality equipment or materials in a timely manner or if there are significant increases in the costs of equipment or materials. Failure of our third party suppliers to perform could adversely affect our results of operations. We currently use outside suppliers for a portion of our manufacturing capacity. Outsourcing our production presents a number of risks. If our outside suppliers are unable to satisfy our demand, or experience manufacturing difficulties, delays or reduced yields, our results of operations and ability to satisfy customer demand could suffer. In addition, purchasing rather than manufacturing these products may adversely affect our gross profit margin if the purchase costs of these products are higher than our own manufacturing costs would have been. Prices for foundry products also vary depending on capacity utilization rates at our suppliers, quantities demanded, product technology and geometry. Furthermore, these outsourcing costs can vary materially from quarter to quarter and, in cases of industry shortages, they can increase significantly, negatively affecting our gross profit. In addition, we have entered into long term supply agreements with certain key manufacturing partners. The failure of these suppliers to perform under these agreements or an unexpected reduction in demand for these products could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Disruptions in our relationships with any one of our key customers could adversely affect our business. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from our top customers, including our distributors. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to generate similar levels of revenue from our largest customers in the future. If one or more of these customers substantially reduce their purchases from us, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We receive subsidies and grants in certain countries, and a reduction in the amount of governmental funding available to us or demands for repayment could increase our costs and affect our results of operations. As is the case with other large semiconductor companies, we receive subsidies and grants from governments in some countries. These programs are subject to periodic review by the relevant governments, and if any of these programs are curtailed or discontinued, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As the availability of government funding is outside our control, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to benefit from government support or that sufficient alternative funding will be available if we lose such support. Moreover, if we terminate any activities or operations, including strategic alliances or joint ventures, we may face adverse actions from the local governmental agencies providing such subsidies to us. In particular, such government agencies could seek to recover such subsidies from us and they could cancel or reduce other subsidies we receive from them. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain natural disasters, such as flooding, large earthquakes, volcanic eruptions or nuclear or other disasters, may negatively impact our business. There is increasing concern that climate change may cause a rising number of natural disasters. Environmental and other disasters, such as flooding, large earthquakes, volcanic eruptions or nuclear or other disasters, or a combination thereof may negatively impact our business. If flooding, a large earthquake, volcanic eruption or, extreme weather event or other natural disaster were to directly damage, destroy or disrupt our manufacturing facilities, it could disrupt our operations, delay new production and shipments of existing inventory or result in costly repairs, replacements or other costs, all of which would negatively impact our business. Even if our manufacturing facilities are not directly damaged, a large natural disaster may result in disruptions in distribution channels, supply chains, movement of goods and significant increases in the prices of raw materials used for our manufacturing process. For instance, the nuclear incident following the tsunami in Japan in 2011 impacted the supply chains of our customers and suppliers. Furthermore, any disaster affecting our customers (or their respective customers) may significantly negatively impact the demand for our products and our revenues. In addition, climate change could cause certain natural disasters, such as drought, wildfires, storms, flooding or rising sea levels, to occur more frequently or with greater intensity, which could pose 21 physical risks to our manufacturing or IT facilities or our suppliers’ facilities, or could disrupt the availability of water and utilities necessary for the operation of our manufacturing facilities or our suppliers’ facilities resulting in increased operating costs and/or business disruption, such as the disruption to our Austin, Texas manufacturing facilities caused by the February 2021 winter storm and weather-related disruption of water and utilities to these facilities. The impact of any such natural disasters depends on the specific geographic circumstances but could be significant, as some of our factories are located in areas with known earthquake fault zones, flood or storm risks, including but not limited to Singapore, Taiwan, Malaysia or Thailand. There is increasing concern that climate change is occurring that may cause a rising number of natural disasters with potentially dramatic effects on human activity. We cannot predict the economic impact, if any, of natural disasters or climate change. Risks related to regulatory or legal challenges As our business is global, we need to comply with laws and regulations in countries across the world. We operate globally, with manufacturing, assembly and testing facilities in several continents, and we market our products globally. As a result, we are subject to environmental, data privacy, labor and health and safety laws and regulations in each jurisdiction in which we operate. We are also required to obtain environmental permits and other authorizations or licenses from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. In the jurisdictions where we operate, we need to comply with differing standards and varying practices of regulatory, tax, judicial and administrative bodies. No assurance can be given that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with the laws and regulations to which we are subject or that we have obtained or will obtain the permits and other authorizations or licenses that we need. If we violate or fail to comply with laws, regulations, permits and other authorizations or licenses, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. Furthermore, if one or more of our customers are sanctioned by regulators for non-compliance with laws and regulations, we could experience a decrease in demand for our products. For example, import and export regulations, such as the U.S. Export Administration Regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce, are complex, change frequently, have generally become more stringent over time and have intensified in recent years. Our results of operations could be negatively impacted if are required to suspend activities with certain customers or suppliers due to future changes in regulations. In 2020, due to regulations imposed by the U.S. government, we ceased shipments of our products to Huawei pending approval of export licenses. Furthermore, global privacy legislation, enforcement, and policy activity, such as the EU General Data Privacy Regulation, are rapidly expanding and creating a complex regulatory compliance environment. Costs to comply with and implement these privacy-related and data protection measures could be significant. Even our inadvertent failure to comply with applicable privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others. Legal proceedings covering a range of matters are pending in various jurisdictions. Due to the uncertainty inherent in litigation, it is difficult to predict the final outcome. An adverse outcome might affect our results of operations. We and certain of our businesses are involved as plaintiffs or defendants in legal proceedings in various matters. For example, we are involved in legal proceedings claiming personal injuries to the children of former employees as a result of employees’ alleged exposure to chemicals used in semiconductor manufacturing clean room environments operated by us or our former parent companies, Philips and Motorola. Furthermore, because we continue to utilize these clean rooms, we may become subject to future claims alleging personal injury that may lead to additional liability. A judgment against us or material defense cost could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our manufacturing operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations and initiatives to address climate change. We are subject to many environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in each jurisdiction in which we operate, which govern, among other things, emissions of pollutants into the air, wastewater discharges, the use and handling of hazardous substances, waste disposal, the investigation and remediation of soil and ground 22 water contamination and the health and safety of our employees. We are also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. We cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with such laws, regulations and permits. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws, regulations or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. As with other companies engaged in similar activities or that own or operate real property, we face inherent risks of environmental liability at our current and historical manufacturing facilities. Certain environmental laws impose strict, and in certain circumstances, joint and several liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous substances as well as liability for related damages to natural resources. Certain of these laws also assess liability on persons who arrange for hazardous substances to be sent to disposal or treatment facilities when such facilities are found to be contaminated. While we do not expect that any contamination currently known to us will have a material adverse effect on our business, we cannot assure you that this is the case or that we will not discover new facts or conditions or that environmental laws or the enforcement of such laws will not change such that our liabilities would be increased significantly. In addition, we could also be held liable for consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous substances or other environmental damage. In summary, we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, regulated materials, will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Public and private initiatives to address climate change may result in an increase in the cost of production due to increase in the prices of energy, introduction of energy or carbon tax or the purchase of carbon offsets. A variety of regulatory developments have been introduced that focus on restricting or managing the emission of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases. Enterprises may need to purchase at higher costs new equipment or raw materials with lower carbon footprints. Environmental laws and regulations could also require us to acquire pollution abatement or remediation equipment, modify product designs, or incur expenses. New materials that we are evaluating for use in our operations may become subject to regulation. These developments and further legislation that is likely to be enacted could affect our operations negatively. Changes in environmental regulations could increase our production and operational costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Risks related to cybersecurity and IT systems Interruptions in our information technology systems could adversely affect our business. We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology applications, systems and networks to operate our business. The reliability and security of our information technology infrastructure and software, and our ability to expand and continually update technologies in response to our changing needs is critical to our business. Any significant interruption in our business applications, systems or networks, including but not limited to new system implementations, computer viruses, cyberattacks, security breaches, facility issues or energy blackouts could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our computer systems and networks are subject to attempted security breaches and other cybersecurity incidents, which, if successful, could impact our business. We have, from time to time, experienced cyber-attacks attempting to obtain access to our computer systems and networks. Such incidents, whether or not successful, could result in the misappropriation of our proprietary information and technology, the compromise of personal and confidential information of our employees, customers or suppliers or interrupt our business. There can be no assurance that a breach or incident will not have a material impact on our operations and financial results in the future. In the current environment, there are numerous and evolving risks to cybersecurity and privacy, including criminal hackers, state-sponsored intrusions, industrial espionage, employee malfeasance, and human or technological error. Computer hackers and others routinely attempt to breach the security of technology products, services, and systems, and those of customers, suppliers, and some of those attempts may be successful. Such breaches could result in, for example, unauthorized access to, disclosure, modification, misuse, loss, or destruction of our, our customer, or other third party data or systems, theft of sensitive or confidential data including personal information (including personal data about our employees, customers or other third parties) and intellectual property, system disruptions, and 23 denial of service. In the event of such breaches, we, our customers or other third parties could be exposed to potential liability, litigation, and regulatory action, as well as the loss of existing or potential customers, damage to our reputation, and other financial loss. In addition, the cost and operational consequences of responding to breaches and implementing remediation measures could be significant. As these threats continue to develop and grow, we have been adapting our security measures and we continue to increase the amount we allocate to implement, maintain and/or update security systems to protect data and infrastructure. As a global enterprise, we could also be impacted by existing and proposed laws and regulations, as well as government policies and practices related to cybersecurity, privacy and data protection. Additionally, cyber-attacks or other catastrophic events resulting in disruptions to or failures in power, information technology, communication systems or other critical infrastructure could result in interruptions or delays to us, our customers, or other third party operations or services, financial loss, potential liability, and damage our reputation and affect our relationships with our customers and suppliers. Risks related to intellectual property We rely to a significant extent on proprietary intellectual property. We may not be able to protect this intellectual property against improper use by our competitors or others. Our success and future revenue growth depends, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology, our products, our proprietary designs and fabrication processes, and other intellectual property against misappropriation by others. We primarily rely on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our intellectual property. We may have difficulty obtaining patents and other intellectual property rights to protect our proprietary products, technology and intellectual property, and the patents and other intellectual property rights we receive may be insufficient to provide us with meaningful protection or commercial advantage. We may not obtain patent protection or secure other intellectual property rights in all the countries in which we operate, and under the laws of such countries, patents and other intellectual property rights may be or become unavailable or limited in scope. Even if new patents are issued, the claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to effectively protect our proprietary technology, processes and other intellectual property. In addition, any of our existing patents, and any future patents issued to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. The protection offered by intellectual property rights may be inadequate or weakened for reasons or circumstances that are out of our control. Further, our proprietary technology, designs and processes and other intellectual property may be vulnerable to disclosure or misappropriation by employees, contractors and other persons. It is possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose our proprietary technologies, our products, designs, processes and other intellectual property despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property. While we hold a significant number of patents, there can be no assurances that additional patents will be issued or that any rights granted under our patents will provide meaningful protection against misappropriation of our intellectual property. Our competitors may also be able to develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. We may not have or pursue patents or pending applications in all the countries in which we operate corresponding to all of our primary patents and applications. Even if patents are granted, effective enforcement in some countries may not be available. In particular, intellectual property rights are difficult to enforce in countries where the application and enforcement of the laws governing such rights may not have reached the same level as compared to other jurisdictions where we operate. Consequently, operating in some countries may subject us to an increased risk that unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise use our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our suppliers or other parties with whom we engage. There is no assurance that we will be able to protect our intellectual property rights or have adequate legal recourse in the event that we seek legal or judicial enforcement of our intellectual property rights under the laws of such countries. Any inability on our part to adequately protect our intellectual property may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may become party to intellectual property claims or litigation that could cause us to incur substantial costs, pay substantial damages or prohibit us from selling our products. We have from time to time received, and may in the future receive, communications alleging possible infringement of patents and other intellectual property rights of others. Further, we may become involved in costly litigation brought against us regarding patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights. If any such claims are asserted against us, we may seek to obtain a license under the third party’s intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain any or all of the necessary 24 licenses on satisfactory terms, if at all. In the event that we cannot obtain or take the view that we don’t need a license, these parties may file lawsuits against us seeking damages (and potentially treble damages in the United States) or an injunction against the sale of our products that incorporate allegedly infringed intellectual property or against the operation of our business as presently conducted. Such lawsuits, if successful, could result in an increase in the costs of selling certain of our products, our having to partially or completely redesign our products or stop the sale of some of our products and could cause damage to our reputation. Any litigation could require significant financial and management resources regardless of the merits or outcome, and we cannot assure you that we would prevail in any litigation or that our intellectual property rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. The award of damages, including material royalty payments, or the entry of an injunction against the manufacture and sale of some or all of our products, could affect our ability to compete or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks related to human capital management Loss of our key management and other personnel, or an inability to attract such management and other personnel, could affect our business. We depend on our key management to run our business and on our senior engineers to develop new products and technologies. Our success will depend on the continued service of these individuals. Although we have several share based compensation plans in place, we cannot be sure that these plans will help us in our ability to retain key personnel, especially considering that the stock options under some of our plans become exercisable upon a change of control (in particular, when a third party, or third parties acting in concert, obtains, whether directly or indirectly, control of us). The loss of any of our key personnel, whether due to departures, death, ill health or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business. The market for qualified employees, including skilled engineers and other individuals with the required technical expertise to succeed in our business, is highly competitive and the loss of qualified employees or an inability to attract, retain and motivate the additional highly skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to successfully conduct research activities or develop marketable products. The foregoing risks could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks related to our corporate structure United States civil liabilities may not be enforceable against us. We are incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands and substantial portions of our assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, certain members of our board, our officers and certain experts named herein reside outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or such other persons residing outside the United States, or to enforce outside the United States judgments obtained against such persons in U.S. courts in any action. In addition, it may be difficult for investors to enforce, in original actions brought in courts in jurisdictions located outside the United States, rights predicated upon the U.S. laws. In the absence of an applicable treaty for the mutual recognition and enforcement of judgments (other than arbitration awards) in civil and commercial matters to which the United States and the Netherlands are a party, a judgment obtained against the Company in the courts of the United States, whether or not predicated solely upon the U.S. federal securities laws, including a judgment predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities law or securities laws of any State or territory within the United States, will not be directly enforceable in the Netherlands. In order to obtain a judgment which is enforceable in the Netherlands, the claim must be relitigated before a competent court of the Netherlands; the relevant Netherlands court has discretion to attach such weight to a judgment of the courts of the United States as it deems appropriate; based on case law, the courts of the Netherlands may be expected to recognize and grant permission for enforcement of a judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States without re-examination or relitigation of the substantive matters adjudicated thereby, provided that (i) the relevant court in the United States had jurisdiction in the matter in accordance with standards which are generally accepted internationally; (ii) the proceedings before that court complied with principles of proper procedure; (iii) recognition and/or enforcement of that judgment does not conflict with the public policy of the Netherlands; and (iv) recognition and/or enforcement of that judgment is 25 not irreconcilable with a decision of a Dutch court rendered between the same parties or with an earlier decision of a foreign court rendered between the same parties in a dispute that is about the same subject matter and that is based on the same cause, provided that earlier decision can be recognized in the Netherlands. Based on the foregoing, there can be no assurance that U.S. investors will be able to enforce against us or members of our board of directors, officers or certain experts named herein who are residents of the Netherlands or countries other than the United States any judgments obtained in U.S. courts in civil and commercial matters. In addition, there is doubt as to whether a Dutch court would impose civil liability on us, the members of our board of directors, our officers or certain experts named herein in an original action predicated solely upon the U.S. laws brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in the Netherlands against us or such members, officers or experts, respectively. We are a Dutch public company with limited liability. The rights of our stockholders may be different from the rights of stockholders governed by the laws of U.S. jurisdictions. We are a Dutch public company with limited liability (naamloze vennootschap) . Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of association and by the laws governing companies incorporated in the Netherlands. The rights of stockholders and the responsibilities of members of our board of directors may be different from the rights and obligations of stockholders in companies governed by the laws of U.S. jurisdictions. In the performance of its duties, our board of directors is required by Dutch law to consider the interests of our company, its stockholders, its employees and other stakeholders, in all cases with due observation of the principles of reasonableness and fairness. It is possible that some of these parties will have interests that are different from, or in addition to, your interests as a stockholder. See Part III, Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance . Risks related to our indebtedness Our debt obligations expose us to risks that could adversely affect our financial condition, which could adversely affect our results of operations. As of December 31, 2021, we had outstanding indebtedness with an aggregate principal amount of $10,650 million. Our substantial indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business by: • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates in the event we have borrowings under our $1,500 million revolving credit facility agreement (the “RCF Agreement”) because loans under the RCF Agreement bear interest at a variable rate; • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness and any failure to comply with the obligations of any our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event default under the indentures governing our notes and agreements governing other indebtedness; • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financial for working capital, capital expenditures, restructurings, product development, research and development, debt service requirements, investments, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged and who therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting. Despite our level of indebtedness, we may still incur significantly more debt, which could further exacerbate the risks described above and affect our ability to service and repay our debt. 26 If we do not comply with the covenants in our debt agreements or fail to generate sufficient cash to service and repay our debt, it could adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. The RCF Agreement and the indentures governing our unsecured notes or any other debt arrangements that we may have require us to comply with various covenants. If there were an event of default under any of our debt instruments that was not cured or waived, the holders of the defaulted debt could terminate commitments to lend and cause all amounts outstanding with respect to the debt to be due and payable immediately, which in turn could result in cross defaults under our other debt instruments. Our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under all of our outstanding debt instruments if some or all of these instruments are accelerated upon an event of default. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital, restructure or refinance our indebtedness or reduce or delay capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain enough capital to service our debt and fund our planned capital expenditures and business plan. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. The rating of our debt by major rating agencies may further improve or deteriorate, which could affect our additional borrowing capacity and financing costs. The major debt rating agencies routinely evaluate our debt. These ratings are based on current information furnished to the ratings agencies by us and information obtained by the ratings agencies from other sources. An explanation of the significance of such rating may be obtained from such rating agency. There can be no assurance that such credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that such ratings will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies, if, in each rating agency’s judgment, circumstances so warrant. Actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, could affect our market value and/or increase our corporate borrowing costs. General risk factors We identified a material weakness in our internal control related to ineffective information technology general controls which, if not remediated appropriately or timely, could result in loss of investor confidence and adversely impact our stock price. As disclosed in Part II, Item 9A, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2021 due to a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting associated with ineffective information technology general controls (ITGCs) in the areas of user access, change-management and IT operations over certain information technology (IT) systems that support the Company’s financial reporting processes. We have initiated remediation plans to address the material weakness, including, but not limited to, expanding controls, applying other appropriate procedures to address the design and operation of internal controls relating to certain IT systems, and enhancing procedures for the identification of control activities and monitoring of control performance to ensure that the components of internal control relating to certain IT systems are present and functioning. While there can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful, in fiscal year 2022 we intend to fully implement these plans to remediate the material weaknesses. If we are unable to remediate the material weakness, or are otherwise unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures, our ability to record, process and report financial information accurately, and to prepare financial statements within required time periods, could be adversely affected, which could subject us to litigation or investigations requiring management resources and 27 payment of legal and other expenses, negatively affect investor confidence in our financial statements and adversely impact our stock price. The price of our common stock historically has been volatile. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of companies. The market price for our common stock has varied between a high of $239.91 on December 7, 2021 and a low of $156.02 on January 27, 2021 in the twelve-month period ending on December 31, 2021. The market price of our common stock is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to significant price and volume fluctuations for many reasons, including in response to the risks described in this section, changes in our dividend or share repurchase policies, variations between our actual financial results or guidance and expectations of securities analysts or investors or for reasons unrelated to our operations, such as reports by industry analysts, investor perceptions or negative announcements by our customers, competitors, peer companies or suppliers regarding their own performance, or announcements by our competitors of significant contracts, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, joint marketing relationships or capital commitments, the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments affecting us or our industry, as well as industry conditions and general financial, economic and political instability. In the past, following periods of market volatility, shareholders have instituted securities class action litigation. If we were involved in securities litigation, it could have a substantial cost and divert resources and the attention of executive management from our business regardless of the outcome of such litigation. We may have fluctuations in the amount and frequency of our stock repurchases. The amount, timing, and execution of our stock repurchases may fluctuate based on our priorities for the use of cash for other purposes—such as investing in our business, including operational spending, capital spending, and acquisitions, and returning cash to our stockholders as dividend payments—and because of changes in cash flows, tax laws, and the market price of our common stock. There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends. Our board of directors has adopted a dividend policy pursuant to which we currently pay a cash dividend on our ordinary shares on a quarterly basis. The declaration and payment of any dividend is subject to the approval of our board and our dividend may be discontinued or reduced at any time. There can be no assurance that we will declare cash dividends in the future in any particular amounts, or at all. Future dividends, if any, and their timing and amount, may be affected by, among other factors: management’s views on potential future capital requirements for strategic transactions, including acquisitions; earnings levels; contractual restrictions; cash position and overall financial condition; and changes to our business model. The payment of cash dividends is restricted by applicable law, contractual restrictions and our corporate structure. The impact of a negative performance of financial markets and demographic trends on our defined benefit pension liabilities and costs cannot be predicted. We sponsor defined benefit pension plans in a number of countries and a significant number of our employees are covered by our defined benefit pension plans. As of December 31, 2021, we had recognized a net accrued benefit liability of $508 million, representing the unfunded benefit obligations of our defined pension plans. The funding status and the liabilities and costs of maintaining these defined benefit pension plans may be impacted by financial market developments. For example, the accounting for such plans requires determining discount rates, expected rates of compensation and expected returns on plan assets, and any changes in these variables can have a significant impact on the projected benefit obligations and net periodic pension costs. Negative performance of the financial markets could also have a material impact on funding requirements and net periodic pension costs. Our defined benefit pension plans may also be subject to demographic trends. Accordingly, our costs to meet pension liabilities going forward may be significantly higher than they are today, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. 28 Future changes to Dutch, U.S. and other foreign tax laws could adversely affect us. The European Commission, U.S. Congress and Treasury Department, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, and other government agencies in jurisdictions where we and our affiliates do business have had an extended focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations, particularly payments made between affiliates from a jurisdiction with high tax rates to a jurisdiction with lower tax rates. As a result, the tax laws in the European Union, U.S. and other countries in which we and our affiliates do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could adversely affect us and our affiliates. Recent examples include the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development’s initiatives to revise profit allocation and nexus rules to allocate more taxing rights to countries where companies have their markets and to establish a minimum tax rate on a global basis. These initiatives include recommendations and proposals that, if enacted in countries in which we and our affiliates do business, could adversely affect us and our affiliates. We are exposed to a number of different tax uncertainties, which could have an impact on our results. We are required to pay taxes in multiple jurisdictions. We determine the taxes we are required to pay based on our interpretation of the applicable tax laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. We may be subject to unfavorable changes in the respective tax laws and regulations to which we are subject. Tax controls, audits, change in controls and changes in tax laws or regulations or the interpretation given to them may expose us to negative tax consequences, including interest payments and potentially penalties. We have issued transfer-pricing directives in the areas of goods, services and financing, which are in accordance with the Guidelines of the Organization of Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). As transfer pricing has a cross border effect, the focus of local tax authorities on implemented transfer pricing procedures in a country may have an impact on results in another country. Transfer pricing uncertainties can also result from disputes with local tax authorities about transfer pricing of internal deliveries of goods and services or related to financing, acquisitions and divestments, the use of tax credits and permanent establishments, and tax losses carried forward. These uncertainties may have a significant impact on local tax results. We also have various tax assets resulting from acquisitions. Tax assets can also result from the generation of tax losses in certain legal entities. Tax authorities may challenge these tax assets. In addition, the value of the tax assets resulting from tax losses carried forward depends on having sufficient taxable profits in the future. In 2021, the United States proposed a budget reconciliation act that could amend the Internal Revenue Code (the “Build Back Better Act”). The Build Back Better proposal contains provisions affecting the tax treatment of both U.S. companies (such as certain of our subsidiaries) and non-U.S. companies that could materially affect us. The Build Back Better proposal includes provisions that impose a minimum tax of 15% on adjusted financial statement net income, extends through the end of 2025 (set to expire on December 31, 2021) the expensing of research and experimental costs, and modifies U.S. inbound and outbound international provisions – including the global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) on foreign earnings made by U.S. corporations’ foreign subsidiaries, the deduction for certain foreign-derived intangible income (FDII), and the base erosion and anti-abuse tax (BEAT) levied on otherwise deductible payments made to certain foreign affiliates. Although not yet passed and not yet signed into law, the effective date for the provisions could range from January 1, 2022 to January 1, 2023.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (MD&A) should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. This section of this Form 10-K generally discusses 2021 and 2020 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2021 and 2020. Discussions of 2019 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2020 and 2019 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020 as filed with the SEC on February 25, 2021. Our MD&A is provided in addition to the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes to assist readers in understanding our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. MD&A is organized as follows: • Overview - Overall analysis of financial and other highlights to provide context for the MD&A • Results of Operations - An analysis of our financial results • Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources - An analysis of changes in our balance sheets and cash flows and a discussion of our financial condition and potential sources of liquidity • Critical Accounting Estimates - Accounting estimates that management believes are the most important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our financial results and forecasts • Use of Certain Non-GAAP Financial Measures - A discussion of the non-GAAP measures used NXP has one reportable segment representing the entity as a whole. Our segment represents groups of similar products that are combined on the basis of similar design and development requirements, product characteristics, manufacturing processes and distribution channels, and how management allocates resources and measures results. See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for more information regarding our segment. Overview Revenue for 2021 was $11,063 million as compared to the $8,612 million reported in 2020, an increase of $2,451 million or an increase of 28.5% year-on-year, as a result of resurgent growth across all of the Company’s four focus end markets, with substantial growth in our strategic focused Automotive and Industrial & IoT end markets. The growth NXP experienced in 2021 was due to a combination of rebounding end market demand from the initial shock and widespread market disruption caused by the emergence of the COVID-19 pandemic in the first half of 2020 and accelerating adoption of the Company’s innovative new products and solutions. The year-on-year growth was due to higher unit volumes, as well as a higher average selling prices resulting from increases in input costs from NXP’s supplier base, which were passed onto our customers. The growth NXP experienced in 2021 began to clearly emerge at the end of the third quarter of 2020 and has continued to steadily accelerate through the fourth quarter of 2021. Even with the strong growth experienced in 2021, the Company believes customer demand will continue to outpace material supply, resulting in another positive year of growth into 2022. Our gross profit percentage for 2021 increased to 54.8% from 49.2%, primarily due to the significant acceleration of revenue during the second half of 2021, after the drop of sales in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which led to improved utilization, cost reductions and efficiencies, partly offset by higher personnel-related costs. Revenue for the fourth quarter, which ended December 31, 2021 was $3,039 million as compared to $2,507 million for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2020, an increase of $532 million or an increase of 21.2%. Revenue 33 in the fourth quarter of 2021 represented a historical record for NXP, the result of strong demand in a supply constrained market which was consistent with the trends seen in the first three quarters of 2021. We continue to generate strong operating cash flows, with $3,077 million in cash flows from operations for 2021. We returned $4,577 million to our shareholders during the year in dividends and repurchases of common stock. Our cash position at the end of 2021 was $2,830 million. On November 18, 2021, the NXP Board of Directors approved a cash dividend of $0.5625 per common share for the fourth quarter of 2021. Our global communities continue to face unprecedented challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, but NXP has continued to actively respond by addressing the COVID-19 situation and its impact globally with global crisis response teams, working to mitigate the potential impacts to our people and our business. With our strong business model and with demonstrated financial discipline, which is a keystone of our culture, we continue to believe that we will emerge from this time well positioned for long-term growth as we continue to see strong customer interest in the breadth of our product portfolio, combined with solid design win awards. However, we cannot reasonably estimate the duration and severity of the pandemic or its ultimate impact on the global economy and our business and results. Demand has come back more rapidly than we expected and our current focus is on looking after our customers and ensuring we ship as much product to them as possible. While we are encouraged by the rapid rebound in demand, we are still challenged by the impact of the global pandemic, including supply chain constraints and COVID outbreaks, and resulting government responses, in areas in which we operate. We are still of the view that the best course of action is to continue to focus on enabling our customers' success while simultaneously assuring the safety and health of all of our employees. Results of Operations The following table presents the composition of operating income for the years ended December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020. Revenue Revenue for the year-ended December 31, 2021 was $11,063 million compared to $8,612 million for the year-ended December 31, 2020, an increase of $2,451 million or 28.5% year-on-year, as a result of resurgent growth across all of the Company's four focus end markets, with substantial growth in our strategic focused Automotive and Industrial end markets. Revenue by end market was as follows: Revenue by sales channel was as follows: 34 Revenue by geographic region, which is based on the customer’s shipped-to location, was as follows: Revenue in the Automotive end market was $5,493 million, an increase of 43.6% versus the year ago period due to a significant increase in demand for NXP’s embedded automotive processing solutions, including solutions to address the shift toward domain and zonal processing. Additionally, customer adoption of NXP's radar products for ADAS safety products, and a rebound in demand for advanced analog products, including demand for solutions to enable electric vehicle power trains contributed to the strong year-on-year growth. From a channel perspective, NXP’s distribution partners in Greater China and Asia Pacific, the Americas, and Japan were responsible for the majority of the year-on-year growth, though the Company experienced solid growth from direct OEM/EMS customers across all geographic regions. Revenue in the Industrial & IoT end market was $2,410 million, an increase of 31.3% versus the year ago period primarily due to strong demand for NXP’s embedded processing solutions, especially industrial application processors and next generation crossover processors. Additionally, NXP experienced positive year-on-year trends within our advanced analog and connectivity solutions. From a channel perspective, NXP’s distribution channel partners in the Greater China and Asia Pacific region enabled NXP to service demands of the long-tail of Industrial & IoT customers. Revenue in the Mobile end market was $1,412 million, an increase of 13.1% versus the year ago period due to continued demands for NXP's unique Secure Mobile Wallet solutions, as well as early ramps of the Company’s Ultra-Wide Band (UWB) solutions and continued adoption of Mobile Embedded Power products, offset by declines in custom interface. From a channel perspective, NXP’s distribution partners in Greater China and Asia Pacific facilitated the year-on-year growth, servicing the concentrated mobile manufacturing centers in Asia. Revenue in the Communication Infrastructure & Other end market was $1,748 million, an increase of 2.6% versus the year ago period due to a combination of Secure Tagging and Smart Transit products, as well as strength from RF Power products levered to the secular build-out of 5G base stations, offset by declines in legacy multi-core processing solutions.  From a channel perspective, NXP’s distribution partners in Greater China and Asia Pacific facilitated the year-on-year growth. 35 Gross Profit Gross profit for the year-ended December 31, 2021 was $6,067 million, or 54.8% of revenue, compared to $4,235 million, or 49.2% of revenue, for the year-ended December 31, 2020. The increase of $1,832 million was primarily driven by the significantly higher revenue in 2021 compared to 2020 resulting from accelerating demand and as such, improved loading and manufacturing efficiencies, offset by higher personnel-related cost, including variable compensation cost, and a less favorable product mix. As a result, the gross margin percentage increased to 54.8% from 49.2%. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the year-ended December 31, 2021 totaled $3,484 million, or 31.5% of revenue, compared to $3,931 million, or 45.6% of revenue, for the year-ended December 31, 2020. The following table below presents the composition of operating expenses by line item in the statement of operations. 36 The decrease in operating expenses was a result of the following items: Research and development (R&D) costs primarily consist of engineer salaries and wages (including share based compensation and other variable compensation), engineering related costs (including outside services, fixed-asset, IP and other licenses related costs), shared service center costs and other pre-production related expenses. • R&D costs for the year-ended December 31, 2021 increased by $211 million, or 12.2%, when compared to last year driven by: + personnel-related costs, including variable compensation costs; and - lower restructuring cost due to the absence of restructurings in 2021. Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) costs primarily consist of personnel salaries and wages (including share based compensation and other variable compensation), communication and IT related costs, fixed-asset related costs and sales and marketing costs (including travel expenses). • SG&A costs for the year-ended December 31, 2021 increased by $77 million, or 8.8%, when compared to last year mainly due to: + higher personnel-related costs, including variable compensation costs; + higher legal expense; - lower share-based compensation expenses as a result of the CEO transition in 2020; and - lower restructuring costs due to the absence of restructuring in 2021. • Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets decreased by $735 million, or 55.4%, when compared to last year driven by: - certain intangibles became fully amortized during 2020; - an impairment charge in 2020 relative to IPR&D acquired as part of the acquisition of Freescale; and + an impairment charge in 2021 as a result of the discontinuation of an IPR&D project. Other Income (Expense) Income and expenses derived from manufacturing service arrangements (“MSA”) and transitional service arrangements (“TSA”) that are put into place when we divest a business or activity, are included in other income (expense). These arrangements are expected to decrease as the divested business or activity becomes more established. The following table presents the split of other income (expense) for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020: Other income (expense) reflects nil for 2021, compared to $114 million of income in 2020. Included in 2020 is $110 million relating to the net gain on the sale of the Voice and Audio Solutions (VAS) assets. 37 Financial Income (Expense) Financial income (expense) was an expense of $403 million in 2021, compared to an expense of $417 million in 2020. The change in financial income (expense) is primarily attributable to foreign exchange results, which resulted in a profit of $5 million in 2021 versus a loss of $16 million in 2020 and lower debt extinguishment costs in 2021 versus 2020 of $38 million. This was partially offset by lower interest income of $9 million as a result of lower interest rates, an increase of interest expense of $7 million and a change in miscellaneous financial income/expense of $29 million, mainly driven by a loss of $2 million on investments in 2021, where 2020 resulted in a profit of $24 million. Benefit (Provision) for Income Taxes We recorded an income tax expense of $272 million for the year-ended December 31, 2021, which reflects an effective tax rate of 12.5% compared to a benefit of $83 million ((8300.0)%) for the year-ended December 31, 2020. The effective tax rate reflects the impact of tax incentives, a portion of our earnings being taxed in foreign jurisdictions at rates different than the Netherlands statutory tax rate, changes in estimates of prior years' income taxes, change in valuation allowance and non-deductible expenses, sale of non-deductible goodwill and withholding taxes. The impact of these items results in offsetting factors that attribute to the change in the effective tax rate between the two periods, with the significant drivers outlined below: • The Company benefits from certain tax incentives, which reduce the effective tax rate. The dollar amount of the incentive in any given year is commensurate with the taxable income in that same period. For 2021, the foreign tax and Netherlands tax incentives were higher than 2020 by $67 million, mainly due to the fact that NXP increased its investment expenditures and benefited from higher qualifying income. 38 • The difference in valuation allowance in 2021 as compared with 2020 is mainly due to the fact that the Netherlands released its valuation allowance related to carried forward interest expenses impacted by the interest limitation rules as a result of higher qualifying income. • The difference in withholding taxes is mainly due to changes in the applicable deferred tax liability rate regarding future remittances of the earnings of foreign subsidiaries in 2020. • The tax effect of the non-deductible goodwill of $10 million is linked to the divestiture of the VAS business in 2020. Results Relating to Equity-accounted Investees Results relating to equity-accounted investees amounted to a loss of $2 million in 2021, whereas in 2020, results relating to equity-accounted investees amounted to a loss of $4 million. Non-controlling Interests Non-controlling interests are related to the third-party share in the results of consolidated companies, predominantly SSMC. Their share of non-controlling interests amounted to a profit of $35 million for the year-ended December 31, 2021, compared to a profit of $28 million for the year-ended December 31, 2020. Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources We derive our liquidity and capital resources primarily from our cash flows from operations. We continue to generate strong positive operating cash flows, and we currently use cash to fund operations, meet working capital requirements, for capital expenditures and for potential common stock repurchases, dividends and strategic investments. Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our current available sources of funds (including cash and cash equivalents, RCF Agreement, plus anticipated cash generated from operations) will be adequate to finance our operations, working capital requirements, capital expenditures and potential dividends for at least the next year. Cash As of December 31, 2021, our cash balance was $2,830 million, an increase of $555 million compared to December 31, 2020 ($2,275 million), of which $208 million (2020, $185 million) was held by SSMC, our consolidated joint venture company with TSMC. Under the terms of our joint venture agreement with TSMC, a portion of this cash can be distributed by way of a dividend to us, but 38.8% of the dividend will be paid to our joint venture partner. During 2021, no dividend (2020, $90 million) was declared. Taking into account the available undrawn amount of the RCF Agreement of $1,500 million, we had access to $4,330 million of liquidity as of December 31, 2021. Capital return The common stock repurchase activity was as follows: Under Dutch corporate law and our articles of association, NXP may acquire its own shares if the general meeting of shareholders has granted the board of directors the authority to effect such acquisitions. It is our standard practice to request our annual general meeting of shareholders (the “AGM”) every year to renew this authorization for a period of 18 months from the AGM. For repurchases of shares in 2020 and 2021, the board of directors made use of the authorizations renewed by the AGM on June 17, 2019, May 27, 2020 and May 26, 2021, respectively. In November 2019, the board of directors approved the additional repurchase of shares up to a maximum of $2 billion (the "2019 Share Repurchase Program") and the purchase of shares from participants in NXP's equity programs who trade shares as trade for tax. In March 2021, the board of directors approved the 39 additional repurchase of shares up to a maximum of $2 billion (the "2021 Share Repurchase Program"), and in August 2021, the board of directors increased the 2021 Share Repurchase Program authorization by $2 billion, for a total of $4 billion approved for the repurchase of shares under the 2021 Share Repurchase Program. During the fiscal year-ended December 31, 2020 NXP repurchased 4.8 million shares, for a total of approximately $0.6 billion and during the fiscal year-ended December 31, 2021 NXP repurchased 20.6 million shares, for a total of approximately $4 billion. Under Dutch tax law, the repurchase of a company’s shares by an entity domiciled in the Netherlands results in a taxable event (unless exemptions apply). The tax on the repurchased shares is attributed to the shareholders, with NXP making the payment on the shareholders’ behalf. As such, the tax on the repurchased shares is accounted for within stockholders’ equity. Subject to Dutch corporate law and our articles of association, the board of directors of NXP may cancel shares acquired if authorized by the general meeting of shareholders. As with repurchases of our shares, it is our standard practice to request our annual general meeting of shareholders (the “AGM”) every year to renew this authorization for a period of 18 months from the AGM. For cancellations of shares in 2020 and 2021, the board of directors made use of the authorizations renewed on May 27, 2020 and May 26, 2021, respectively. As approved by the board of directors, on December 15, 2020, NXP cancelled 26 million shares and on November 30, 2021, NXP cancelled 15 million shares. As a result, the number of issued NXP shares as per November 30, 2021 is 274,519,638. In January 2022, the Board approved the repurchase of shares up to a maximum of $2 billion (the "2022 Share Repurchase Program"). Under our Quarterly Dividend Program, interim dividends of $0.375 per ordinary share were paid on April 6, July 6, October 5, 2020; and January 5, 2021, and dividends of $0.5625 per ordinary share were paid on April 5, July 6, October 6, 2021; and January 6, 2022. Debt Our total debt, inclusive of aggregate principal, unamortized discounts, premiums, debt issuance costs and fair value adjustments, amounted to $10,572 million as of December 31, 2021, an increase of $2,963 million compared to December 31, 2020 ($7,609 million). On May 11, 2021, NXP issued $1 billion of 2.5% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2031 and $1 billion of 3.25% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2041. On November 30, 2021, NXP issued $1 billion of 2.65% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2032, $500 million of 3.125% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2042 and $500 million of 3.25% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2051. On December 1, 2021, $1 billion of 3.875% Senior Notes due 2022 were redeemed in full. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had outstanding fixed-rate notes with varying maturities for an aggregate principal amount of $10,650 million (collectively the “Notes”), with $0 payable within 12 months. Future interest payments associated with the Notes total $3,358 million, with $384 million payable within 12 months. 40 Additional capital requirements We believe our current cash and cash equivalents position, our expected cash flow generated from operations and our expected financing activities will satisfy our working and other capital requirements for at least the next 12 months based on our current business plans. Recent and expected working and other capital requirements, in addition to the above matters, also include the items described below: • The Company maintains purchase commitments with certain suppliers, primarily for raw materials, semi-finished goods and manufacturing services and for some non-production items. Purchase commitments for inventory materials are generally restricted to a forecasted time-horizon as mutually agreed upon between the parties. This forecasted time-horizon can vary for different suppliers. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had purchase commitments of $4,354 million, of which $1,377  million is expected to be paid in the next 12 months. We expect an increase in operating cash outflows as compared to 2021 as we make payments under these purchase commitments. • Amounts related to future lease payments for operating lease obligations at December 31, 2021 totaled $256 million, with $60 million expected to be paid within the next 12 months. • The Company enters into certain technology license arrangements which are used in conjunction with research and development activities for product development. Payments for these technology licenses are made over varying time periods. Outstanding unpaid balances for technology licenses total $281 million as of December 31, 2021, of which $85 million is expected to be paid in the next 12 months. • Cash outflows for capital expenditures were $767 million in 2021, compared to $392 million in 2020. We expect capital expenditures to increase in 2022, consistent with our long-term financial model, to support the increase in our manufacturing and production capacity needs. • Our research and development expenditures were $1,936 million in 2021 and $1,725 million in 2020, and we expect to maintain our investment in research and development as a percentage of revenues in 2022 consistent with our long-term financial model. From time to time, we engage in discussions with third parties regarding potential acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses, technologies and product lines. Any such transaction could require significant use of our cash and cash equivalents, or require us to arrange for new debt and equity financing to fund the transaction. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions. In the future, we may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or we may not have enough capacity under the RCF Agreement, or from other sources in an amount sufficient to enable us to repay our indebtedness, including the RCF Agreement, the unsecured notes or to fund our other liquidity needs, including working capital and capital expenditure requirements. In any such case, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors . 2021 Financing Activities 2032, 2042 and 2051 Senior Unsecured Notes On November 30, 2021, NXP B.V., together with NXP USA Inc. and NXP Funding LLC, issued $1 billion of 2.65% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2032, $500 million of 3.125% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2042 and $500 million of 3.25% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2051. The Company used a portion of the net proceeds of the offering of these notes to redeem the $1 billion aggregate principal amount of outstanding 3.875% Senior Notes due 2022. The remaining net proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes, which may include capital expenditures or equity buyback transactions. 2031 and 2041 Senior Unsecured Notes On May 11, 2021, NXP B.V., together with NXP USA Inc. and NXP Funding LLC, issued $1 billion of 2.5% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2031 and $1 billion of 3.25% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2041. The net proceeds of the 2.5% Senior Notes due 2031 ("2031 Notes") are being used to finance certain eligible green 41 projects. Pending the allocation of an amount equal to the net proceeds of the 2031 Notes to finance these eligible green projects, the remaining net proceeds of the 2031 Notes, together with the net proceeds of the 3.25% Senior Notes due 2041, are temporarily being held as cash and other short-term securities or are being used for general corporate purposes, including capital expenditures, short-term debt repayment or equity buyback transactions. 2020 Financing Activities 2025, 2027 and 2030 Senior Unsecured Notes On May 1, 2020, NXP B.V., together with NXP USA Inc. and NXP Funding LLC, issued $500 million of 2.7% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2025, $500 million of 3.15% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2027 and $1 billion of 3.4% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2030. NXP used the net proceeds of the offering of these notes to repay in full on September 28, 2020, the $1,350 million aggregate principal amount of outstanding 4.125% Senior Notes due 2021 and the $400 million aggregate principal amount of outstanding 4.625% Senior Notes due 2022. Debt Position Short-term Debt As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, we had no short-term debt outstanding. Long-term Debt As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, we had outstanding debt of: 42 (1)    On August 11, 2016, we issued $1,000 million aggregate principal amount of 3.875% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2022. On December 1, 2021 the Notes were redeemed in full. (2)    On May 23, 2016, we issued $900 million aggregate principal amount of 4.625% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2023. (3)    On December 6, 2018, we issued $1,000 million aggregate principal amount of 4.875% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2024, $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.35% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2026 and $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.55% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2028. (4)    On May 1, 2020, we issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 2.7% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2025, $500 million aggregate principal amount of 3.15% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2027 and $1 billion aggregate principal amount of 3.4% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2030. (5)    On June 18, 2019, we issued $750 million of 3.875% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2026 and $1 billion of 4.3% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2029. 43 (6)  On May 11, 2021, we issued $1,000 million aggregate principal amount of 2.5% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2031 and $1,000 million aggregated principal amount of 3.25% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2041. (7)  On November 30, 2021, we issued $1,000 million aggregate principal amount of 2.65% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2032, $500 million aggregate principal amount of 3.125% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2042 and $500 million aggregated principal amount of 3.25% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2051. (8)    On June 11, 2019, we entered into a $1.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility agreement. We may from time to time continue to seek to retire or purchase our outstanding debt through cash purchases and/or exchanges, in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. See the discussion in Part II, Item 7. Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources above. 2019 Cash Convertible Senior Notes We repaid the Cash Convertible Notes upon their maturity on December 1, 2019 through a combination of available cash and payments made by the counterparties under privately negotiated convertible note hedge transactions (the “Cash Convertible Notes Hedges”), as further described in Note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this report. For a detailed description of the Warrants underlying the Cash Convertible Notes Hedge, refer to Note 13 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. Cash flows Our cash and cash equivalents in 2021 increased by $558 million (excluding the effect of changes in exchange rates on our cash position of $(3) million) as follows: • Cash Flow from Operating Activities For the year-ended December 31, 2021 our operating activities provided $3,077 million in cash. This was primarily the result of net income of $1,906 million, adjustments to reconcile the net income of $1,628 million and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $(437) million. Adjustments to net income include offsetting non-cash items, such as depreciation and amortization of $1,262 million, share-based compensation of $353 million, amortization of the discount on debt and debt issuance costs of $8 million, a gain on sale of assets of $1 million, a loss on extinguishment of debt of $22 million, a loss on equity securities of $2 million, results relating to equity-accounted investees of $2 million and changes in deferred taxes of $(20) million. The change in operating assets and liabilities was attributable to the following: The $176 million increase in receivables and other current assets was primarily due to the increase in trade accounts receivable, net, which was driven by the increasing linearity of revenue between the two periods, customer mix, and the related timing of cash collections in 2021 compared with the same period in 2020. The $159 million increase in inventories was primarily related to increased production levels in order to attempt to align inventory on hand with the current revenue forecasts. The $248 million increase in accounts payable and other liabilities was primarily related to increases in trade accounts payable of $262 million, and $163 million related to accruals for employee compensation; partially offset by the decrease of other liabilities of $57 million related to income and social taxes payable, $37 44 million related to restructuring liabilities and $83 million of other net movements including the non-cash adjustment for capital expenditures and purchased IP. The $350 million increase in other non-current assets was primarily related to prepayments to secure long-term production supply with multiple vendors. For the year-ended December 31, 2020 our operating activities provided $2,482 million in cash. This was primarily the result of net income of $80 million, adjustments to reconcile the net income of $1,959 million and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $438 million. Net income includes offsetting non-cash items, such as depreciation and amortization of $1,988 million, share-based compensation of $384 million, amortization of the discount on debt and debt issuance costs of $8 million, a gain on sale of assets of $(115) million, a loss on extinguishment of debt of $60 million, a gain on equity securities of $(21) million, results relating to equity-accounted investees of $4 million and changes in deferred taxes of $(349) million. • Cash Flow from Investing Activities Net cash used for investing activities amounted to $934 million for the year-ended December 31, 2021 and principally consisted of the cash outflows for capital expenditures of $767 million, $132 million for the purchase of identified intangible assets, $33 million for the purchase of equipment leased to others, $23 million purchases of interests in businesses (net of cash acquired) and $8 million purchase of investments, partly offset by proceeds of $10 million from insurance recoveries received for equipment damage, $10 million from proceeds from return of equity investments and $8 million from proceeds from sale of investments. Net cash used for investing activities amounted to $418 million for the year-ended December 31, 2020 and principally consisted of the cash outflows for capital expenditures of $392 million, $130 million for the purchase of identified intangible assets, $34 million purchases of interests in businesses (net of cash acquired), and $30 million purchase of investments, partly offset by proceeds of $161 million from the sale of our Voice and Audio Solution assets (net of cash). • Cash Flow from Financing Activities Net cash used for financing activities was $1,585 million for the year-ended December 31, 2021 compared to $835 million for the year-ended December 31, 2020. The cash flows related to financing transactions in 2021 and 2020 are primarily related to the financing activities described below under the captions 2021 Financing Activities and 2020 Financing Activities . In addition to the financing activities described below, net cash used for financing activities by year included: Information Regarding Guarantors of NXP (unaudited) Summarized Combined Financial Information for Guarantee of Securities of Subsidiaries The following debt instruments are guaranteed, fully and unconditionally, jointly and severally, by NXP Semiconductors N.V. and issued or guaranteed by NXP USA, Inc., NXP B.V. and NXP LLC, (together, the “Subsidiary Obligors” and together with NXP Semiconductors N.V., the “Obligor Group”): 4.625% Senior Notes due 2023, 4.875% Senior Notes due 2024, 2.700% Senior Notes due 2025, 5.350% Senior Notes due 2026, 3.875% Senior Notes due 2026, 3.150% Senior Notes due 2027, 5.550% Senior Notes due 2028, 4.300% Senior Notes due 2029, 3.400% Senior Notes due 2030, 2.500% Senior Notes due 2031, 2.650% Senior Notes 45 due 2032, 3.250% Senior Notes due 2041, 3.125% Senior Notes due 2042, and the 3.250% Senior Notes due 2051 (together the “ Notes”). Other than the Subsidiary Obligors, none of the Company’s subsidiaries (together the “Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries”) guarantee the Notes. The Company consolidates the Subsidiary Obligors in its consolidated financial statements and each of the Subsidiary Obligors are wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company. All of the existing guarantees by the Company rank equally in right of payment with all of the existing and future senior indebtedness of the Obligor Group. There are no significant restrictions on the ability of the Obligor Group to obtain funds from respective subsidiaries by dividend or loan. The following tables present summarized financial information of the Obligor Group on a combined basis, with intercompany balances and transactions between entities of the Obligor Group eliminated and investments and equity in the earnings of the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries excluded. The Obligor Group’s amounts due from, amounts due to, and intercompany transactions with Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries have been disclosed below the table, when material. Summarized Statements of Income Summarized Balance Sheets NXP Semiconductors N.V. is the head of a fiscal unity for the corporate income tax and VAT that contains the most significant Dutch wholly-owned group companies. The Company is therefore jointly and severally liable for the tax liabilities of the tax entity as a whole, and as such the income tax expense of the Dutch fiscal unity has been included in the Net income of the Obligor Group. The financial information of the Obligor Group includes sales executed through a Non-Guarantor Subsidiary single-billing entity as a sales agent on behalf of an entity in the Obligor Group. The Obligor Group has sales to non-guarantors (2021: $563 million). The Obligor Group has amounts due from equity financing (2021: $5,167) and due to debt financing (2021: $3,053) with non-guarantor subsidiaries. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires our management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in our Consolidated 46 Financial Statements and the accompanying notes. Our management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience, current economic and industry conditions and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on the results that we report in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Some of our accounting policies require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates regarding matters that are inherently uncertain. Our most critical accounting estimates include: • the valuation of inventory, which impacts gross margin; • the assessment of recoverability of goodwill, identified intangible assets and tangible fixed assets, which impacts gross margin or operating expenses when we record asset impairments or accelerate their depreciation or amortization; • revenue recognition, which impacts our results of operations; • the recognition of current and deferred income taxes (including the measurement of uncertain tax positions), which impacts our provision for income taxes; • the assumptions used in the determination of postretirement benefit obligations, which impacts operating expenses; • the assumptions used in the determination of share based compensation, which impacts gross margin and operating expenses; and • the recognition and measurement of loss contingencies, which impacts gross margin or operating expenses when we recognize a loss contingency or revise the estimates for a loss contingency. In the following section, we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved. Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value. We regularly review our inventories and write down our inventories for estimated losses due to obsolescence. This allowance is determined for groups of products based on sales of our products in the recent past and/or expected future demand. Future demand is affected by market conditions, technological obsolescence, new products and strategic plans, each of which is subject to change with little or no forewarning. In estimating obsolescence, we utilize information that includes projecting future demand. The need for strategic inventory levels to ensure competitive delivery performance to our customers are balanced against the risk of inventory obsolescence due to rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. The change in our reserves for inventories was primarily due to the normal review and accrual of obsolete or excess inventory. If actual future demand or market conditions are less favorable than those projected by our management, additional inventory write-downs may be required. 47 Goodwill Goodwill is required to be assessed for impairment at least once annually, or more frequently if indicators of potential impairment exist, which includes evaluating qualitative and quantitative factors to assess the likelihood of an impairment of a reporting unit’s goodwill. Such events or changes in circumstances can be significant changes in business climate, operating performance or competition, or upon the disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining if an indicator of impairment has occurred between annual test dates. We perform impairment tests using a fair value approach when necessary. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including projected future cash flows, discount rates based on weighted average cost of capital and future economic and market conditions. We base our fair-value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable. Actual cash flow amounts for future periods may differ from estimates used in impairment testing. We perform our annual impairment test for goodwill in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. We did not recognize any impairment charges for goodwill in the years presented, as our annual impairment testing indicated that the fair value exceeded the recorded value for the respective reporting unit. Impairment or disposal of identified long-lived assets We perform reviews of long-lived assets including property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets subject to amortization, whenever facts and circumstances indicate that the useful life is shorter than what we had originally estimated or that the carrying amount of assets may not be recoverable. If such facts and circumstances exist, we assess the recoverability of the long-lived assets by comparing the projected undiscounted net cash flows associated with the related asset or group of assets over their remaining lives against their respective carrying amounts. In the event such cash flows are not expected to be sufficient to recover the recorded value of the assets, the assets are written down to their estimated fair values based on the expected discounted future cash flows attributable to the assets or based on appraisals. Impairment losses, if any, are based on the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of those assets. Long-lived assets to be disposed of by sale are reported at the lower of their carrying amounts or their estimated fair values less costs to sell and are not depreciated. The assumptions and estimates used to determine future values and remaining useful lives of our intangible and other long-lived assets are complex and subjective. They can be affected by various factors, including external factors such as industry and economic trends, and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy and our forecasts for specific product lines. In 2021, we recognized impairment charges of $36 million as a result of the discontinuation of an IPR&D project. In 2020, we recognized impairment charges of $36 million, relative to IPR&D that was acquired from Freescale. In 2019 we had no impairments. Revenue recognition The Company recognizes revenue under the core principle to depict the transfer of control to customers in an amount reflecting the consideration the Company expects to be entitled. In order to achieve that core principle, the Company applies the following five step approach: (1) identify the contract with a customer, (2) identify the performance obligations in the contract, (3) determine the transaction price, (4) allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract, and (5) recognize revenue when a performance obligation is satisfied. The vast majority of the Company’s revenue is derived from the sale of semiconductor products to distributors, Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEMs”) and similar customers. In determining the transaction price, the Company evaluates whether the price is subject to refund or adjustment to determine the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled. Variable consideration is estimated and includes the impact of discounts, price protection, product returns and distributor incentive programs. The estimate of variable consideration is dependent on a variety of factors, including contractual terms, analysis of historical data, current economic conditions, industry demand and both the current and forecasted pricing environments. The estimate of variable consideration is not constrained because the Company has extensive experience with these contracts. 48 Revenue is recognized when control of the product is transferred to the customer (i.e., when the Company’s performance obligation is satisfied), which typically occurs at shipment. In determining whether control has transferred, the Company considers if there is a present right to payment and legal title, and whether risks and rewards of ownership having transferred to the customer. For sales to distributors, revenue is recognized upon transfer of control to the distributor. For some distributors, contractual arrangements are in place which allow these distributors to return products if certain conditions are met. These conditions generally relate to the time period during which a return is allowed and reflect customary conditions in the particular geographic market. Other return conditions relate to circumstances arising at the end of a product life cycle, when certain distributors are permitted to return products purchased during a pre-defined period after the Company has announced a product’s pending discontinuance. These return rights are a form of variable consideration and are estimated using the most likely method based on historical return rates in order to reduce revenues recognized. However, long notice periods associated with these announcements prevent significant amounts of product from being returned. For sales where return rights exist, the Company has determined, based on historical data, that only a very small percentage of the sales of this type to distributors is actually returned. Repurchase agreements with OEMs or distributors are not entered into by the Company. Sales to most distributors are made under programs common in the semiconductor industry whereby distributors receive certain price adjustments to meet individual competitive opportunities. These programs may include credits granted to distributors, or allow distributors to return or scrap a limited amount of product in accordance with contractual terms agreed upon with the distributor, or receive price protection credits when our standard published prices are lowered from the price the distributor paid for product still in its inventory. In determining the transaction price, the Company considers the price adjustments from these programs to be variable consideration that reduce the amount of revenue recognized. The Company’s policy is to estimate such price adjustments using the most likely method based on rolling historical experience rates, as well as a prospective view of products and pricing in the distribution channel for distributors who participate in our volume rebate incentive program. We continually monitor the actual claimed allowances against our estimates, and we adjust our estimates as appropriate to reflect trends in pricing environments and inventory levels. The estimates are also adjusted when recent historical data does not represent anticipated future activity. Historically, actual price adjustments for these programs relative to those estimated have not materially differed. Income taxes Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts. Measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities is based upon the enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. Deferred tax liabilities for withholding taxes on dividends from subsidiaries are recognized in situations where the Company does not consider the earnings indefinitely reinvested and to the extent that these withholding taxes are not expected to be refundable. Deferred tax assets, including assets arising from loss carryforwards, are recognized, net of a valuation allowance, if based upon the available evidence it is more likely than not that the asset will be realized. The income tax benefit from an uncertain tax position is recognized only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination by the relevant taxing authorities. The income tax benefit recognized is measured based on the largest benefit that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon resolution of the uncertainty. Unrecognized tax benefits are presented as a reduction to the deferred tax asset for related net operating loss carryforwards, unless these would not be available, in which case the uncertain tax benefits are presented together with the related interest and penalties as a liability, under accrued liabilities and other non-current liabilities based on the timing of the expected payment. Penalties are recorded as income tax expense, whereas interest is reported as financial expense in the statement of operations. 49 Postretirement benefits The Company’s employees participate in pension and other postretirement benefit plans in many countries. The costs of pension and other postretirement benefits and related assets and liabilities with respect to the Company’s employees participating in defined-benefit plans are based upon actuarial valuations. The projected defined-benefit obligation is calculated annually by qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit method. For the Company’s major plans, the discount rate is derived from market yields on high quality corporate bonds. Plans in countries without a deep corporate bond market use a discount rate based on the local government bond rates. In calculating obligation and expense, the Company is required to select actuarial assumptions. These assumptions include discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and rates of increase in compensation costs determined based on current market conditions, historical information and consultation with and input from our actuaries. Changes in the key assumptions can have a significant impact to the projected benefit obligations, funding requirements and periodic pension cost incurred. The Company determines the fair value of plan assets based on quoted prices or comparable prices for non-quoted assets. For a defined-benefit pension plan, the benefit obligation is the projected benefit obligation; for any other postretirement defined benefit plan it is the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation. Share-based compensation We recognize compensation expense for all share-based awards based on the grant-date estimated fair values, net of an estimated forfeiture rate. We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to determine the estimated fair value for certain awards. Share-based compensation cost for restricted share units (“RSUs”) with time-based vesting is measured based on the closing fair market value of our common stock on the date of the grant, reduced by the present value of the estimated expected future dividends, and then multiplied by the number of RSUs granted. Share-based compensation cost for performance-based share units (“PSUs”) granted with performance or market conditions is measured using a Monte Carlo simulation model on the date of grant. Our valuation models and generally accepted valuation techniques require us to make assumptions and to apply judgment to determine the fair value of our awards. These assumptions and judgments include estimating the volatility of our stock price, expected dividend yield, employee turnover rates and employee stock option exercise behaviors. When establishing the expected life assumption, we used the ‘simplified’ method prescribed in ASC Topic 718 for companies that do not have adequate historical data. The risk-free interest rate is measured as the prevailing yield for a U.S. Treasury security with a maturity similar to the expected life assumption. We also estimate a forfeiture rate at the time of grant and revise this rate in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures or vesting differ from the original estimates. We evaluate the assumptions used to value our awards on a quarterly basis. If factors change and we employ different assumptions, share-based compensation expense may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the past. If there are any modifications or cancellation of the underlying unvested securities, we may be required to accelerate, increase or cancel any remaining unearned share-based compensation expense. Litigation and claims We are regularly involved as plaintiffs or defendants in claims and litigation related to our past and current business operations. The claims can cover a broad range of topics, including intellectual property, reflecting the Company’s identity as a global manufacturing and technology business. The Company vigorously defends itself against improper claims, including those asserted in litigation. Due to the unpredictable nature of litigation, there can be no assurance that the Company’s accruals will be sufficient to cover the extent of its potential exposure to losses but, historically, legal actions have not had a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. 50 The estimated aggregate range of reasonably possible losses is based on currently available information in relation to the claims that have arisen and on the Company’s best estimate of such losses for those cases for which such estimate can be made. For certain claims, the Company believes that an estimate cannot currently be made. The estimated aggregate range requires significant judgment, given the varying stages of the proceedings (including the fact that many of them are currently in preliminary stages), the existence of multiple defendants (including the Company) in such claims whose share of liability has yet to be determined, the numerous yet-unresolved issues in many of the claims, and the attendant uncertainty of the various potential outcomes of such claims. Accordingly, the Company’s estimate will change from time to time, and actual losses may be more than the current estimate. Use of Certain Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to disclosing financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP, this document contains references to net debt. Net debt is a non-GAAP financial measure and represents total debt (short-term and long-term) after deduction of cash and cash equivalents. We believe this measure provides investors with useful supplemental information about the financial performance of our business, enables comparison of financial results between periods where certain items may vary independent of business performance, and allows for greater transparency with respect to calculating our net leverage. The following is a reconciliation of net debt to the most directly comparable GAAP measure, total debt, as adjusted for our cash and cash equivalents our net debt was calculated as follows: We understand that, although net debt is used by investors and securities analysts in their evaluation of companies, this concept has limitations as an analytical tool and it should not be used as an alternative to any other measure in accordance with U.S. GAAP.