********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

This “Risk Factors” section contains references to our “capital stock” and to our “stockholders.” Unless expressly stated otherwise, the references to our “capital stock” represent our common stock and any class or series of preferred stock which may be outstanding from time to time, while the references to our “stockholders” represent holders of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry In order to grow we need to continue to acquire investment properties. The acquisition of investment properties may be subject to competitive pressures. We face competition in the acquisition and operation of our properties. We expect competition from businesses, individuals, fiduciary accounts and plans, and other entities engaged in real estate investment and financing. This competition may result in a higher cost for properties we wish to purchase. Negative market conditions or adverse events affecting our existing or potential clients, or the industries in which they operate, could have an adverse impact on our ability to attract new clients, re-lease space, collect rent or renew leases, which could adversely affect our cash flow from operations and inhibit growth. Cash flow from operations depends in part on our ability to lease space to our clients on economically favorable terms and to collect rent from our clients on a timely basis. We could be adversely affected by various facts and events over which we have limited or no control, such as: 21 • Lack of demand in areas where our properties are located; • Inability to retain existing clients and attract new clients; • Oversupply of space and changes in market rental rates; • Declines in our clients’ creditworthiness and ability to pay rent, which may be affected by their operations (including as a result from changes in consumer behaviors or preferences impacting our clients operations), economic downturns and competition within their industries from other operators; • Defaults by and bankruptcies of clients, failure of clients to pay rent on a timely basis, or failure of our clients to comply with their contractual obligations; • Changes in laws, rules or regulations that negatively impact clients or our properties; • The COVID-19 pandemic or other epidemics or pandemics or outbreaks of illness, disease or virus that affect countries or regions in which our clients and their parent companies operate or in which our properties or corporate headquarters are located; • Changes in consumer behaviors (e.g., decrease in discretionary consumer spending), preferences or demographics impacting our clients' operations; • Supply chain disruptions; • Economic or physical decline of the areas where the properties are located; and • Deterioration of physical condition of our properties. If our clients do not renew their leases as they expire, we may not be able to rent or sell the properties. Leases that are renewed, and some new leases for properties that are re-leased, may have terms that are less economically favorable than expiring lease terms, or may require us to incur significant costs, such as renovations, improvements on behalf of the client or lease transaction costs. Negative market conditions may cause us to sell vacant properties for less than their carrying value, which could result in impairments. Any of these events could adversely affect our cash flow from operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and service our indebtedness. A significant portion of the costs of owning property, such as real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance, are not necessarily reduced when circumstances cause a decrease in rental revenue from the properties. In a weakened financial condition, our clients may not be able to pay these costs of ownership and we may be unable to recover these operating expenses from them. At any time, any of our clients may experience a downturn in its business that may weaken its operating results or overall financial condition. As a result, a client may delay lease commencement, fail to make rental payments when due, decline to extend a lease upon its expiration, become insolvent or declare bankruptcy. Any client bankruptcy or insolvency, leasing delay or failure to make rental payments when due could result in the termination of our client’s lease and material losses to us. Further, the occurrence of a client bankruptcy or insolvency could diminish or eliminate the income we receive from our client’s lease or leases. A bankruptcy court might authorize a client to terminate one or more of its leases with us. If that happens, our claim against the bankrupt client for unpaid future rent would be subject to statutory limitations that most likely would result in rent payments that would be substantially less than the remaining rent we are owed under the leases (it is also possible that we may not receive any unpaid future rent under terminated leases) or we may elect not to pursue claims against a client for terminated leases. Claims we have for unpaid past rent, if any, may not be paid in full, or at all. Client bankruptcies within a given property may also adversely impact our ability to re-release that property at favorable terms, or at all. Moreover, in the case of a client’s leases that are not terminated as the result of its bankruptcy, we may be required or elect to reduce the rent payable under those leases or provide other concessions, reducing amounts we receive under those leases. As a result, client bankruptcies may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Any of these events could adversely affect our cash flow from operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders and service our indebtedness. Downturns in any of our industries could adversely affect our clients (including, for example, the recent challenges faced by our clients in the theater industry), which in turn could also have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and our ability to pay the principal of and interest on our debt securities and other indebtedness and to make distributions on our common stock and any outstanding preferred stock. In addition, some of our properties are leased to clients that may have limited financial and other resources and, therefore, they are more likely to be adversely affected by a downturn in their respective businesses, including any downturns that have resulted or may result from the COVID-19 pandemic or other epidemics or pandemics, or in the regional, national or international economy. Furthermore, we have made and may continue to make selected acquisitions of 22 properties that fall outside our historical focus on freestanding, single-client, net-lease retail locations in the U.S. As a result, we may be exposed to a variety of new risks by expanding into new property types and/or new jurisdictions outside the U.S. and properties leased to clients engaged in non-retail businesses. These risks may include limited experience in managing certain types of new properties, new types of real estate locations and lease structures, and the laws and culture of non-U.S. jurisdictions. The COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted our operations and the effects of the pandemic are expected to continue to have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The COVID-19 pandemic, including the continued spread of new variants and the measures taken to limit its spread, has had, and other pandemics in the future could have, adverse repercussions across global economies and financial markets, as well as on us and our clients. Factors that have contributed or may contribute in the future to the adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the measures taken to limit its spread on the business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity of us and our clients include, without limitation, the following: • Operational limitations or issues at properties operated by our clients resulting from government action (including travel bans, border closings, business closures, quarantine, vaccine and testing requirements, shelter-in-place or similar orders requiring that people remain in their homes); • Reduced economic activity, customer traffic, consumer confidence or discretionary spending, the deterioration in our or our clients’ ability to operate in affected areas, and any delays in the supply of products or services to our clients may impact certain of our clients’ businesses, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity and may cause certain of our clients to be unable to meet their obligations to us in full, or at all, and to seek, whether through negotiation, restructuring or bankruptcy, reductions or deferrals in their rent payments and other obligations to us or early termination of their leases; • Difficulties with supply chain disruptions and in leasing, selling or redeveloping properties or renewing expiring or terminated leases on terms we consider acceptable, or at all; • Difficulties accessing bank lending, capital markets and other financial markets on attractive terms, or at all, may adversely affect our cost of capital, our access to capital to grow our business (including through acquisitions, development opportunities and other strategic transactions) and to fund our business operations, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock, our ability to pay the principal of and interest on our indebtedness, and our other liabilities on a timely basis, and may adversely affect our clients’ ability to fund their business operations and meet their obligations to us and others; • Potential negative impacts on our credit ratings, the interest rates on our borrowings, and our future compliance with financial covenants under our credit facility and other debt instruments, which could result in a default and potentially an acceleration of indebtedness, any of which could negatively impact our ability to make additional borrowings under our revolving credit facility, sell commercial paper notes under our commercial paper programs, incur other indebtedness, pay dividends on our common stock and pay the principal of and interest on our indebtedness and our other obligations when due; • The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the market value of certain of our properties has led to impairment charges and may require that we incur further impairment charges, asset write-downs or similar charges; • The impact on the ability of our employees, including members of our management team or board of directors, to fulfill their duties to us; and • A general decline in business activity and demand for real estate transactions could adversely affect our ability to grow our portfolio of properties. Most of our clients operate retail businesses, many of which have been disproportionately impacted by certain of the issues described above, and may continue to be disproportionately impacted in the future. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact our operations and those of our clients will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence, including the scope, severity and duration of the pandemic, the actions taken to contain the pandemic or limit its impact, and the direct and indirect economic effects of the pandemic and containment measures. Likewise, the deterioration of global economic conditions as a result of the pandemic may ultimately lead to a further decrease in occupancy levels and rental rates across our portfolio as our clients (including those in the theater 23 industry) reduce or defer their spending, institute restructuring plans or file for bankruptcy. Some of our clients have experienced temporary closures of some or all of their properties or have substantially altered or reduced their operations in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and additional clients may do so in the future. To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic or other epidemics or pandemics in the future adversely affect economic conditions and financial markets, as well as the business, results of operations, financial conditions and liquidity of us and our clients, they may also have the effect of heightening many of the risks described elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section and our historical information regarding our business, properties, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may not be representative of the future results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or other financial or operating results of us, our properties or our business. As a property owner, we may be subject to unknown environmental liabilities. Investments in real property can create a potential for environmental liability. An owner of property can face liability for environmental contamination created by the presence or discharge of hazardous substances on the property. We can face such liability regardless of our knowledge of the contamination; the timing of the contamination; the cause of the contamination; or the party responsible for the contamination of the property. There may be environmental conditions associated with our properties of which we are unaware. A number of our properties are leased to operators of convenience stores that sell petroleum-based fuels, to operators of oil change and tune-up facilities, and operators that use chemicals and other waste products. These facilities and some other of our properties, use, or may have used in the past, underground lifts or storage tanks for the storage of petroleum-based or waste products, which could create a potential for the release of hazardous substances. Certain of our other properties, particularly those leased for industrial-type purposes, may also involve operations or activities that could give rise to environmental liabilities. The presence of hazardous substances on a property may adversely affect our client's ability to continue to operate that property or our ability to lease or sell that property and we may incur substantial remediation costs or third-party liability claims. Although our leases generally require our clients to operate in compliance with all applicable federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, and to indemnify us against any environmental liabilities arising from the clients’ activities on the properties, we could nevertheless be subject to liability, including strict liability, by virtue of our ownership interest. There also can be no assurance that our clients could or would satisfy their indemnification obligations under their leases. The discovery of environmental liabilities attached to our properties could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, our financial condition, or our ability to make distributions to stockholders and to pay the principal of and interest on our debt securities and other indebtedness. In addition, several of our properties were built during the period when asbestos was commonly used in building construction and we may acquire other buildings that contain asbestos in the future. Environmental laws govern the presence, maintenance, and removal of asbestos-containing materials, or ACMs, and require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, that they adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and that they undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement in the event that asbestos is disturbed during renovation or demolition of a building. These laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators for failure to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos fibers. While we have not been notified by any governmental authority, and are not otherwise aware, of any material noncompliance, liability or claim relating to environmental contamination, if environmental contamination should exist on any of our properties, we could be subject to liability, including strict liability, by virtue of our ownership interest. In addition, while we maintain environmental insurance policies, it is possible that our insurance could be insufficient to address any particular environmental situation and/or that, in the future, we could be unable to obtain insurance for environmental matters at a reasonable cost, or at all. Our clients are generally responsible for, and indemnify us against, liabilities for environmental matters that arise during the lease terms as a result of clients’ activities on the properties. However, it is possible that one or more of our clients could fail to have sufficient funds to cover any such indemnification or to meet applicable state financial assurance obligations or such environmental contamination may predate our client's lease term, and thus we may still be obligated to pay for any such environmental liabilities. 24 If we fail to qualify as a REIT, it could adversely impact us, and the amount of dividends we are able to pay would decrease, which could adversely affect the market price of our capital stock and could adversely affect the value of our debt securities. We believe that, commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1994, we have been organized and have operated, and we intend to continue to operate, so as to qualify as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Code. However, we cannot make any assurances that we have been organized or have operated in a manner that has satisfied the requirements for qualification as a REIT, or that we will continue to be organized or operate in a manner that will allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT. Qualification as a REIT involves the satisfaction of numerous requirements under highly technical and complex Code provisions, for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, as well as the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. As we have recently expanded into new geographies and transactional structures, and may continue to do so in the future, the analyses of our REIT qualification, and our ability to ensure such qualification, have become, and may become in the future, more complex. For example, in order to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income in each year must be derived from qualifying sources, and we must pay distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our taxable income (excluding net capital gains). If we fail to satisfy any of the requirements for qualification as a REIT, we may be subject to certain penalty taxes or, in some circumstances, we may fail to qualify as a REIT. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year: • We would be required to pay regular U.S. federal corporate income tax on our taxable income; • We would not be allowed a deduction for amounts distributed to our stockholders in computing our taxable income; • We could be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification is lost; • We would no longer be required to make distributions to stockholders; and • This treatment would substantially reduce amounts available for investment or distribution to stockholders because of the additional tax liability for the years involved, which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our capital stock and the value of our debt securities. Even if we qualify for and maintain our REIT status, we may be subject to certain federal, state, local and foreign taxes on our income and property. For example, if we have net income from a prohibited transaction, that income will be subject to a 100% tax. In addition, our taxable REIT subsidiaries are subject to federal, state and, in some cases, foreign taxes at the applicable tax rates on their income and property. Any failure to comply with legal and regulatory tax obligations could adversely affect our ability to conduct business and could adversely affect the market price of our capital stock and the value of our debt securities. Legislative or other actions affecting REITs could have a negative effect on us or our investors. The rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the Internal Revenue Services, or the IRS, and the U.S. Department of the Treasury, or the Treasury. Changes to the tax laws, with or without retroactive application, could adversely affect us or our investors, including holders of our common stock or debt securities. We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect us or our investors. New legislation, Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify as a REIT, the federal income tax consequences of such qualification, or the federal income tax consequences of an investment in us. Also, the law relating to the tax treatment of other entities, or an investment in other entities, could change, making an investment in such other entities more attractive relative to an investment in a REIT. Distribution requirements imposed by law limit our flexibility. To maintain our status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we generally are required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income, excluding net capital gains, each year. We also are subject to tax at regular corporate rates to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our taxable income (including net capital gains) each year. In addition, we are subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax to the extent that we fail to distribute during any calendar year at least the sum of 85% of our ordinary income for that calendar year, 95% of our capital gain net income for the calendar year, and any amount of that income that was not distributed in prior years. We intend to continue to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the distribution requirements of the Code as well as to reduce our exposure to federal income taxes and the nondeductible excise tax. Differences in timing between the receipt of income and the payment of expenses to arrive at taxable income, along with the effect of 25 required debt amortization payments, could require us to borrow funds to meet the distribution requirements that are necessary to achieve the tax benefits associated with qualifying as a REIT. Future issuances of equity securities could dilute the interest of holders of our common stock. Our future growth will depend, in large part, upon our ability to raise additional capital. Raising additional capital through the issuance of equity securities can dilute the interests of holders of our common stock. The interests of our common stockholders could also be diluted by the issuance of shares of common stock pursuant to stock incentive plans. Likewise, our Board of Directors is authorized to cause us to issue preferred stock of any class or series with dividend, voting and other rights as determined by our Board of Directors, which could dilute, or otherwise adversely affect, the interest of holders of our common stock. We may acquire properties or portfolios of properties through tax deferred contribution transactions, which could result in stockholder dilution and limit our ability to sell or refinance such assets. We have in the past and may in the future acquire properties or portfolios of properties through tax deferred contribution transactions in exchange for partnership units in an operating partnership, which could result in stockholder dilution through the issuance of operating partnership units that, under certain circumstances, may be exchanged for shares of our common stock. This acquisition structure may have the effect of, among other things, reducing the amount of tax depreciation we could deduct over the tax life of the acquired properties, and may require that we agree to restrictions on our ability to dispose of, or refinance the debt on, the acquired properties in order to protect the contributors’ ability to defer recognition of taxable gain. Similarly, we may be required to incur or maintain debt we would otherwise not incur so we can allocate the debt to the contributors to maintain their tax bases. In the event we take any action that incurs taxable gain allocated to these contributors, we may be required to make them whole under tax protection agreements. These restrictions could limit our ability to sell or refinance an asset at a time, or on terms, that would be favorable absent such restrictions. We are subject to risks associated with debt and preferred stock financing. We intend to incur additional indebtedness in the future, including borrowings under our $4.25 billion unsecured revolving credit facility and our $3.0 billion commercial paper programs. Our revolving credit facility grants us the option, subject to obtaining lender commitments and other customary conditions, to expand the borrowing limits thereunder to up to $5.25 billion. The credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility also governs our $250.0 million unsecured term loan facility due March 2024 and, on January 6, 2023 we entered into the Term Loan Agreement governing our term loan, pursuant to which we borrowed an aggregate of approximately $1.0 billion in multicurrency borrowings. The Term Loan Agreement also permits us to incur additional term loans, up to an aggregate of $1.5 billion in total borrowings. The Term Loans initially mature in January 2024 and include two 12-month maturity extensions that can be exercised at the company's option. Our A3/A- credit ratings provide for a borrowing rate of 80 basis points over the applicable benchmark rate, which includes adjusted SOFR for US Dollar-denominated loans, adjusted SONIA for Sterling-denominated loans, and EURIBOR for Euro-denominated loans. In conjunction with closing, we executed one-year variable-to-fixed interest rate swaps which fix our per annum interest rate at 5.0% over the initial term. Pursuant to our unsecured commercial paper programs we may offer and sell up to $3.0 billion of commercial paper at any time. We use our revolving credit facility as a liquidity backstop for the repayment of notes issued under the commercial paper programs. Specifically, we maintain unused borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility equal to the aggregate principal amount of borrowings outstanding under our commercial paper programs from time to time. We may in the future enter into amendments and restatements of our revolving credit facility and term loan facilities, or enter into new revolving credit facilities or term loan facilities, and any such amended, restated or replacement revolving credit facilities or term loan facilities may increase the amounts we are entitled to borrow, subject to customary conditions, compared to our current revolving credit facility and term loan facilities, or we may incur other indebtedness. We may also in the future increase the size of our commercial paper programs or establish new commercial paper programs. We expect that we will continue to use our current and any new revolving credit facilities we may enter into (in each case as the same may be expanded, amended or restated, if applicable, from time to time), as a liquidity backstop for the repayment of notes issued under our current or any new commercial paper programs that we may maintain from time to time. As a result of the merger, all outstanding secured indebtedness and all outstanding liabilities and other indebtedness of VEREIT and its subsidiaries (including $4.65 billion of additional senior unsecured notes that were originally issued by VEREIT OP, substantially all of which were exchanged for senior unsecured notes issued by us) became indebtedness and liabilities of ours or our subsidiaries, as the case may be, which substantially increased the total secured indebtedness and the total liabilities and other indebtedness of us and our subsidiaries. 26 To the extent that new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face would increase. As a result, we are and will be subject to risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow could be insufficient to make required payments on our debt or to pay dividends on our common stock. We also face variable interest rate risk as the interest rates on our revolving credit facility, term loan facilities, and commercial paper programs are variable (subject to our interest rate swaps on our term loan facilities, in effect from time to time), and the interest rates on any credit facilities and term loan facilities we may enter into in the future may be variable, and could therefore increase over time. In addition, commercial paper borrowings are short-term obligations and the interest rate on newly issued commercial paper varies according to market conditions at the time of issuance. In addition, while we may enter into hedging and other derivatives instruments to mitigate our exposure to fluctuations in borrowing and currency rates, we may not realize the anticipated benefits from these arrangements or they may be insufficient to mitigate our exposure. We also face the risk that we may be unable to refinance or repay our debt as it comes due. Given past disruptions in the financial markets and ongoing global financial uncertainties, including the impact of COVID-19, the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the European Union (referred to as Brexit), and the ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict, we also face the risk that one or more of the participants in our revolving credit facility may be unwilling or unable to lend us money. We have incurred and may continue to incur indebtedness that is denominated in local currencies to fund our international investments and operations. However, it is possible that such indebtedness may be insufficient or may be on unacceptable terms requiring us to use non-local currency indebtedness. In such event, we may be subject to foreign exchange rate volatility.  While we may enter into hedging and other derivatives instruments to mitigate our exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, we may not realize the anticipated benefits from these arrangements or these arrangements may be insufficient to mitigate our exposure. Our revolving credit facility, our term loan facilities, and our mortgage loan documents contain provisions that could limit or, in certain cases, prohibit the payment of dividends and other distributions to holders of our common stock and any outstanding preferred stock. The credit agreements governing our revolving credit facility and term loan facilities provide that, if an event of default (as defined in the credit agreements, as applicable) exists, we may not pay any dividends or make other distributions on (except distributions payable in shares of a given class of our stock to the stockholders of that class), or repurchase or redeem, among other things, any shares of our common stock or any outstanding preferred stock, during any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters in an aggregate amount in excess of the greater of (i) the sum of 95% of our adjusted funds from operations (as defined in the credit agreements, as applicable) for that period plus the aggregate amount of cash distributions made to holders of our outstanding preferred stock for that period, and (ii) the minimum amount of cash distributions required to be made to our stockholders in order to maintain our status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and to avoid the payment of income or excise taxes that would otherwise be imposed under specified sections of the Code on income we do not distribute to our stockholders, except we may repurchase or redeem shares of our outstanding preferred stock, if any, with net proceeds from the issuance of shares of our common stock or preferred stock. The credit agreements each provide that, in the event of a failure to pay principal, interest, or any other amount payable thereunder when due or upon the occurrence of certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization with respect to us or with respect to one or more of our subsidiaries that in the aggregate meet a significance test set forth in the credit agreements, we and our subsidiaries (other than our wholly-owned subsidiaries) may not pay dividends or make other distributions on (except for (a) distributions payable in shares of a given class of our stock to the stockholders of that class and (b) dividends and distributions described in (ii) above), or repurchase or redeem, among other things, any shares of our common stock or preferred stock. If any such event of default under the applicable credit agreements (or under any other credit agreement or debt instrument with similar terms that we may in the future enter into or be subject to) were to occur, it would likely have a material adverse effect on the market price of our outstanding common stock and any outstanding preferred stock and on the market value of our debt securities which could limit the amount of dividends or other distributions payable to holders of our common stock and any outstanding preferred stock or the amount of interest and principal we are able to pay on our indebtedness, or prevent us from paying those dividends, other distributions, interest or principal altogether, and may adversely affect our ability to qualify, or prevent us from qualifying, as a REIT. Our indebtedness could also have other important consequences to holders of our common stock, any outstanding preferred stock, and our debt securities, including: • Increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; 27 • Limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements; • Requiring the use of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations for the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures, and general corporate requirements; • Limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and • Putting us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors with less indebtedness. If we default under a credit facility, loan agreement, or other debt instrument, the lenders will generally have the right to demand immediate repayment of the principal and interest on all of their loans and, in the case of secured indebtedness, to exercise their rights to seize and sell the collateral. Moreover, a default under a single loan or debt instrument may trigger cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions in other indebtedness and debt instruments, giving the holders of such other indebtedness and debt instruments similar rights to demand immediate repayment and to seize and sell any collateral. Real estate ownership is subject to particular conditions that may have a negative impact on our revenue. We are subject to all of the inherent risks associated with the ownership of real estate. In particular, we face the risk that rental revenue from our properties may be insufficient to cover all corporate operating expenses, debt service payments on indebtedness we incur, and distributions on our capital stock. Additional real estate ownership risks include: • Adverse changes in general or local economic conditions; • Changes in supply of, or demand for, similar or competing properties; • Changes in interest rates and operating expenses (including energy costs, shortages and rationing); • Competition within an industry and for our clients; • Changes in market rents; • Inability to lease properties upon termination of existing leases; • Renewal of leases at lower rental rates; • Inability to collect rental revenue from our clients due to financial hardship, including bankruptcy; • Changes in tax, real estate, zoning and environmental laws that may have an adverse impact upon the value of real estate; • Uninsured property liability; • Property damage or casualty losses; • Unexpected expenditures for capital improvements, including requirements to bring properties into compliance with applicable federal, state and local laws; • The need to periodically renovate and repair our properties; • Risks assumed as manager for development or redevelopment projects; • Physical or weather-related damage to properties; • The potential risk of functional obsolescence of properties over time; • Acts of terrorism and war; • Changes in consumer behaviors, preferences or demographics; • The impacts of climate change; and • Acts of God and other factors beyond the control of our management. Real estate property investments are illiquid. We may not be able to acquire or dispose of properties when desired or on favorable terms. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Our ability to quickly buy, sell or exchange any of our properties in response to changes in economic and other conditions will be limited and U.S. and foreign tax and regulatory regimes and authorities may impose or have the effect of restricting or limiting our ability to sell properties. No assurances can be given that we will recognize full value, at a price and at terms that are acceptable to us, for any property that we are required to sell for liquidity reasons. Our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 28 Our acquisition of additional properties may have a significant effect on our business, liquidity, financial position and/or results of operations. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to manage our acquisitions and expansion opportunities under prevailing market conditions. We are regularly engaged in the process of identifying, analyzing, underwriting, and negotiating possible acquisition transactions. We cannot provide any assurances that we will be successful in consummating future acquisitions on favorable terms or that we will realize expected cash lease yields, operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements, synergies, or other benefits. Our inability to consummate one or more acquisitions on such terms, our failure to adequately underwrite and identify risks and obligations when acquiring properties, or our failure to realize the intended benefits from one or more acquisitions, could have a significant adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial position and/or results of operations, including as a result of our incurrence of additional indebtedness and related interest expense and our assumption of unforeseen contingent liabilities in connection with completed acquisitions. We have made and may continue to make selected acquisitions of properties that fall outside our historical focus on freestanding, single-client, net lease retail locations in the U.S. We may be exposed to a variety of new risks by expanding into new property types and/or new jurisdictions outside the U.S. and from properties leased to our clients who engage in non-retail businesses. These risks may include limited experience in managing certain types of new properties, new types of real estate locations and lease structures, and the laws and culture of non-U.S. jurisdictions. We may face extensive regulations from gaming and other regulatory authorities regarding current and future gaming properties. As a landlord of a gaming facility or future gaming facilities, we may be impacted by the risks associated with the gaming industry. The ownership, operation, and management of gaming facilities are subject to pervasive regulation. Gaming authorities also retain great discretion such that gaming regulations can impact our gaming clients, individuals associated with the operation of gaming properties, and us as the owner of the real estate and landlord related to such facilities. Gaming laws and regulations can impact all facets of a gaming property, including but not limited to alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, employees, health care, currency transactions, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted, which could adversely affect our operating results, and may also result in additional taxes or licensing fees imposed on us and our gaming clients. In addition, subject to certain administrative due process requirements, gaming regulators generally have broad authority to conduct investigations into the conduct or associations of our officers or certain investors to ensure compliance with applicable standards and suitability to hold a gaming license, and to deny any application or limit, condition, restrict, revoke, or suspend any gaming license, registration, or finding of suitability or approval, or fine any person licensed, registered, or found suitable or qualified as a licensee. As a result, our ability to obtain or maintain our required licenses and approvals, or avoid penalties related thereto, may be subject to risks, including risks outside of our control, and cannot be predicted. Were a tenant unable to continue to perform under a lease, because of the highly regulated nature of the industry, it may be difficult to re-lease gaming properties. This difficulty may be exacerbated to the extent the gaming property is located in a geography that does not have an expansive gaming footprint, such as the property in which we are invested. A transfer of interest, including a new lease, will likely require approval of regulators and the licensing of a new gaming operator tenant. We are subject to additional risks from our international investments and debt. We have acquired and may continue to acquire properties outside of the U.S. These investments may expose us to a variety of risks that are different from and in addition to those commonly found in the U.S. Our international investments are subject to additional risks, including: • The laws, rules and regulations applicable in such jurisdictions outside of the U.S., including those related to property ownership and control by foreign entities; • Complying with a wide variety of foreign laws, including corruption, employment, data protection, energy usage, health and safety and environmental regulations which may require capital expenditures to maintain or bring our foreign properties into compliance with applicable regulations; 29 • Fluctuations in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar (including risks related to their impact on our results of operations, hedging and other derivative arrangements used to mitigate our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency rates, translational reporting risks, and exchange controls); • As we may not have or have only a limited number of properties within a jurisdiction, our experience in that market and with local business may be limited; • Cultural factors and business practices that differ from our U.S. standards and practices including as they relate to rent adjustments, ground leases and property ownership requirements and limitations; • Challenges in establishing effective controls and procedures to manage and regulate operations in different regions and to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable regulations, such as applicable laws related to corrupt practices, employment, licensing, construction, energy usage, climate change or environmental compliance; • Unexpected or other changes in regulatory requirements, tax, tariffs, trade barriers and other laws within jurisdictions outside the U.S. or between the U.S. and such jurisdictions; • Potentially adverse tax consequences with respect to our properties and/or investment vehicles; • Initial limited investments within certain regions or countries resulting in industry or client concentration risks; • The impact of regional or country-specific business cycles, inflation and economic instability, including deterioration in political relations with the U.S., instability in, or further withdrawals from, the European Union or other international trade alliances or agreements; and • Political instability, uncertainty over property rights, civil unrest, acts of war, drug trafficking, political activism or the continuation or escalation of terrorist or gang activities. We also engage external property managers who assist with managing our international properties. If a property manager fails to meet its obligations or terminates its services, we may need to find a replacement but these services may be on less favorable terms and conditions or we may not be able to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner or at all. We have incurred and may continue to incur indebtedness that is denominated in local currencies to fund our international investments and operations. However, it is possible that such indebtedness may be insufficient or may be on unacceptable terms requiring us to use non-local currency indebtedness. In such event, we may be subject to foreign exchange rate volatility which may be impacted by various factors, including those described above.  While we may enter into hedging and other derivatives instruments to mitigate our exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, we may not realize the anticipated benefits from these arrangements or these arrangements may be insufficient to mitigate our exposure. For more information, see “—We are subject to risks associated with debt and preferred stock financing.” If we are unable to adequately address these risks, they could have a significant adverse effect on our operations. We may engage in development, speculative development, or expansion projects or invest in new assets, which would subject us to additional risks that could negatively impact our operations. We may engage in development, speculative development, or other expansion projects, which could require us to raise additional capital and obtain additional state and local permits. A decision by any governmental agency not to issue a required permit or substantial delays in the permitting process could cause us to incur penalties, delay us from receiving rental payments or result in us receiving reduced rental payments, or prevent us from pursuing the development, speculative development, or expansion project altogether. Additionally, any such new development, speculative development, or expansion project may not operate at designed capacity or may cost more to operate than we expect. The inability to successfully complete development, speculative development, or expansion projects or to complete them on a timely basis could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, in the future, we may invest in new or different assets or enter into new transaction structures that may or may not be closely related to our current business. These new assets and transaction structures may have new, different or increased risks than what we are currently exposed to in our business and we may not be able to manage these risks successfully. Additionally, when investing in such new assets or transaction structures, we will be exposed to the risk that those assets or structures, or the income generated thereby, will affect our ability to meet the requirements to maintain our REIT status, or will subject us to additional regulatory requirements or limitations. If 30 we are not able to successfully manage the risks associated with such new assets, it could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. An uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the policy limits on our properties could subject us to lost capital or revenue on those properties. Our leases generally require our clients to indemnify and hold us harmless from liabilities resulting from injury to persons, air, water, land or property, due to activities conducted on the properties, except for claims arising from the negligence or intentional misconduct of us or our agents. Additionally, clients are generally required, at the client’s expense, to obtain and keep in full force during the term of the lease, liability and property damage insurance policies. The insurance policies our clients are required to maintain for property damage are generally in amounts not less than the full replacement cost of the improvements less slab, foundations, supports and other customarily excluded improvements. Our clients are generally required to maintain general liability coverage depending on the client and the industry in which the client operates. Many of our properties are also covered by flood and earthquake insurance policies (subject to substantial deductibles) obtained and paid for by our clients as part of their risk management programs. Additionally, we have obtained blanket liability, flood and earthquake (subject to substantial deductibles) and property damage insurance policies to protect us and our properties against loss should the indemnities and insurance policies provided by the clients fail to restore the properties to their condition prior to a loss. We do not carry insurance for certain losses and certain types of losses may be either uninsurable or not economically insurable. However, should a loss occur that is uninsured or in an amount exceeding the combined aggregate limits for the policies noted above, or in the event of a loss that is subject to a substantial deductible under an insurance policy, we could lose all or part of our capital invested in, and anticipated revenue from, one or more of the properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition and on our ability to pay the principal of and interest on our debt securities and other indebtedness and to make distributions to our stockholders. We also face the risk that our insurance carriers may not be able to provide payment under any potential claims that might arise under the terms of our insurance policies, and we may not have the ability to purchase insurance policies we desire. In addition, although we obtain title insurance policies on our properties to help protect us and our properties against title defects (such as adverse claims of ownership, liens or other encumbrances), there may be certain title defects that our title insurance will not cover. If a material title defect related to any of our properties is not adequately covered by a title insurance policy, we could lose some or all of our capital invested in and our anticipated profits from such property, cause a financial misstatement or damage our reputation. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and fire, safety, and other regulations may require us to make unintended expenditures that could adversely impact our results of operations. Our properties are generally required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or the ADA. The ADA has separate compliance requirements for “public accommodations” and “commercial facilities,” but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. Compliance with the ADA requirements could require removal of access barriers and non-compliance could result in imposition of fines by the U.S. government or an award of damages to private litigants. The retailers to whom we lease properties are obligated by law to comply with the ADA provisions and, in many cases, the retailers are generally obligated to cover costs associated with compliance pursuant to the terms of their applicable leases. If required changes involve greater expenditures than anticipated, or if the changes must be made on a more accelerated basis than anticipated, the ability of these retailers to cover costs could be adversely affected and we could be required to expend our own funds to comply with the provisions of the ADA, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition and our ability to pay the principal of and interest on our debt securities and other indebtedness and to make distributions to our stockholders. In addition, our properties must be in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies and become applicable to our properties. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with those requirements and these expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition and our ability to pay the principal of and interest on our debt securities and other indebtedness and to make distributions to our stockholders. Property taxes may increase without notice. The real property taxes on our properties and any other properties that we develop or acquire in the future may increase as property tax rates change and as those properties are assessed or reassessed by tax authorities. While 31 the majority of our leases are under a net lease structure, some or all of such property taxes may not be collectible from our clients. Our business is subject to risks associated with climate change and our sustainability strategies. Our business is subject to risks associated with the effects of climate change, and a resulting shift to a lower carbon economy, and may be subject to further risks in the future. Climate change could adversely affect our business through both chronic and acute perils including, but not limited to, extreme weather, changes in precipitation and temperature, and rising sea levels, all of which may result in physical damage to, or a decrease in demand for, our properties located in the areas affected by these conditions, and may adversely impact consumer behaviors, preferences and spending for our clients, which may impact their ability to fulfill their obligations under our leases, or our ability to re-lease the properties in the future. In addition, should the impact of climate change be severe or occur for lengthy periods of time, connectivity, labor and supply chains could impact business continuity for ourselves and our clients. Chronic climate change may lead to increased costs for us and our clients to adapt to the demands and expectations of climate change or lower carbon usage, including with respect to heating, cooling or electricity costs, retrofitting properties to be more energy efficient or comply with new rules or regulations, or other unforeseen costs. These risks could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition or results of operations. We seek to promote effective energy efficiency and other sustainability strategies and compliance with federal, state and international laws and regulations related to climate change, both internally and with our clients. Our sustainability strategies and efforts to comply with changes in federal, state and international laws and regulations on climate change could result in significant capital expenditures to improve our existing properties or properties we may acquire. Any changes to such laws and regulations could also result in increased operating costs or capital expenditures at our properties. If we are unable to comply with laws and regulations on climate change or implement effective sustainability strategies, our reputation among our clients and investors may be damaged and we may incur fines and/or penalties. Moreover, there can be no assurance that any of our sustainability strategies will result in reduced operating costs, higher occupancy or higher rental rates or deter our existing clients from relocating to properties owned by our competitors. In addition, tenants of net-leased properties are responsible for maintenance and other day-to-day management of the properties. This lack of control over our net-leased properties makes it difficult for us to collect property-level environmental metrics and to enforce sustainability initiatives, which may impact our ability to comply with certain regulatory disclosure requirements to which we are subject (such as the anticipated changes to the SEC’s climate-related disclosure rules) or comply effectively with established ESG frameworks and standards, such as the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmarks, the TCFD and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board. If we are unable to successfully collect the data necessary to comply with these disclosure requirements, we may be subject to increased regulatory risk and if such data is incomplete or unfavorable, our relationship with our investors, our stock price, and our access to capital may be negatively impacted. Our charter contains restrictions upon ownership of our common stock. Our charter contains restrictions on ownership and transfer of our common stock intended to, among other purposes, assist us in maintaining our status as a REIT for U.S. federal and/or state income tax purposes. For example, our charter restricts any person from acquiring beneficial or constructive ownership of more than 9.8% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding shares of common stock. These restrictions could have anti-takeover effects and could reduce the possibility that a third party will attempt to acquire control of us, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The value of certain of our investment in real property may be reduced as the result of the expiration or loss of local tax abatements, tax credit programs, or other governmental incentives. Certain of our investments have the benefit of governmental tax incentives aimed at inducing property users to relocate to incentivize development in areas and neighborhoods which have not historically seen robust commercial development. These incentives typically have specific sunset provisions and may be subject to governmental discretion in the eligibility or award of the applicable incentives. The expiration of these incentive programs or the inability of potential clients or users to be eligible for or to obtain governmental approval of the incentives, or the inability to remain compliant with such programs, may have an adverse effect on the value of our investment, cash flow and net income, and may result in impairment charges. 32 We may not be able to realize the anticipated synergies and related benefits of the merger with VEREIT and the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. The merger involved the combination of two companies which operated as independent public companies. While we devoted significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of VEREIT, it is possible that we may be unable to realize expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements, synergies or other benefits. General Risk Factors The market value of our capital stock and debt securities could be substantially affected by various factors. The market value of our capital stock and debt securities will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time and may be outside of our control, including: • Prevailing interest rates, increases in which may have an adverse effect on the market value of our capital stock and debt securities; • The market for similar securities issued by other REITs; • General economic, political and financial market conditions; • The financial condition, performance and prospects of us, our clients and our competitors; • Changes in legal and regulatory taxation obligations; • Litigation and regulatory proceedings; • Changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts with respect to us, our competitors or our industry; • Changes in our credit ratings; • Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results of us and our competitors; and • Failure to achieve the perceived benefits of the merger and the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement or if the effect of the merger and the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement on our results of operations or financial condition is not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts. In addition, over the last several years, prices of common stock and debt securities in the U.S., trading markets have experienced extreme price fluctuations, and the market values of our common stock and debt securities have also fluctuated significantly during this period. As a result of these and other factors, investors who purchase our capital stock and debt securities may experience a decrease, which could be substantial and rapid, in the market value of our capital stock and debt securities, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Litigation risks could affect our business. From time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings, lawsuits, and other claims including those that may arise out of acquisitions, development opportunities and other strategic transactions. An unfavorable resolution of litigation may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Regardless of its outcome, litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses and significantly divert the attention of management. We depend on key personnel. We depend on the efforts of our executive officers and key employees The loss of the services of our executive officers and key employees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition and on our ability to pay the principal and interest on our debt securities and other indebtedness and to make distributions to our stockholders. It is possible that we will not be able to recruit additional personnel with equivalent experience in the net lease industry or retain employees to the same extent as in the past. Natural disasters, terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or war, or other unexpected events may affect the value of our debt and equity securities, the markets in which we operate and our results of operations. Natural disasters, terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or war, or other unexpected events (e.g., pandemics or epidemics) may negatively affect our operations, the market price of our capital stock and the value of our debt securities. There can be no assurance that events like these will not occur or have a direct impact on our clients, our business or the U.S. or world generally. If events like these were to occur, they could materially interrupt our business operations, cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the U.S. and worldwide financial markets and economy. They also could result in or prolong an economic recession in 33 the U.S. or abroad. Any of these occurrences could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results and revenues and on the market price of our capital stock and on the value of our debt securities. It could also have an adverse effect on our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt securities or other indebtedness and to make distributions to our stockholders. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business. We, like all businesses, are subject to cyber-attacks and security incidents, which threaten the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our systems and information resources. Cyber-attacks are malicious cyber activity and a security incident is a successful cyber-attack that has the potential to expose sensitive data, internal systems, or otherwise disrupt business operations. Those attacks and incidents may be due to intentional or unintentional acts by employees, contractors or third-parties, who seek to gain unauthorized access to our or our service providers’ systems to disrupt operations, corrupt data, or steal confidential information through malware, computer viruses, ransomware, social engineering (e.g., phishing attachments to e-mails) or other vectors. The risk of a cybersecurity breach or operational disruption, particularly through a cyber incident, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased, particularly as remote working has become more common. Our information technology (“IT”) networks and related systems are essential to the operation of our business and our ability to perform day-to-day operations and, in some cases, may be critical to the operations of certain of our clients. Although we make efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of IT networks and related systems, and we have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption (such as the implementation of systems and/or vendors that provide constant monitoring of our IT networks and related systems for cyber-attacks and incidents); however, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. While we maintain some of our own critical IT networks and related systems, we also depend on third-parties to provide important software, technologies, tools and a broad array of services and functions, such as payroll, human resources, electronic communications, data storage, and certain finance and treasury functions, among others. In addition, in the ordinary course of our business, we collect, process, transmit and store sensitive data, within our own systems and utilizing those of third-party providers, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, as well as personally identifiable information. Our measures to prevent, detect and mitigate these threats may not be successful in preventing a security incident or data breach or limiting the effects of such a breach. This is particularly so because attack methodologies change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and we also may be unable to investigate or remediate incidents because attackers are increasingly using techniques and tools designed to circumvent controls, to avoid detection, and to remove or obfuscate forensic evidence. The primary risks that could directly result from the occurrence of a cyberattack or security incident include operational interruption, damage to our relationship with our clients, reputational damage, and private data exposure. We could be required to expend significant capital and other resources to address an attack or incident, which may not be covered or fully covered by our insurance and which may involve payments for investigations, forensic analyses, legal advice, public relations advice, system repair or replacement, or other services, in addition to any remedies or relief that may result from legal proceedings. Our financial results may be negatively impacted by such attacks and incidents or any resulting negative media attention. Further, while we carry cyber liability insurance, such insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses related to such events. Volatility in market and economic conditions may impact the accuracy of the various estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements and footnotes to the financial statements. Various estimates are used in the preparation of our financial statements, including estimates related to asset and liability valuations (or potential impairments), and various receivables. Often these estimates require the use of market data values that are currently difficult to assess, as well as estimates of future performance or receivables collectability that can also be difficult to accurately predict. Although management believes it has been prudent and 34 used reasonable judgment in making these estimates, it is possible that actual results may differ from these estimates. Inherent limitations of internal controls over financial statements, disclosure controls and safeguarding of assets may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our internal controls over financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures and our operating internal controls may not prevent or detect financial misstatements or loss of assets because of inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement and disclosure accuracy and safeguarding of assets. Failures in our internal controls could result in adverse consequences in our financial reporting and operations, including delays, additional costs, impairment in our ability to access capital, adverse impacts to investor confidence, regulatory review, or litigation. Our business operations may not generate the cash needed to make distributions on our capital stock or to service our indebtedness. Our ability to make distributions on our common stock and any outstanding preferred stock and payments on our indebtedness, and to fund planned acquisitions and capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. We cannot make any assurances that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to make distributions on our common stock and any outstanding preferred stock, to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. Disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain financing on reasonable terms and have other adverse effects on us, the market price of our common stock, and may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital. Historically, there have been periods where the global equity and credit markets have experienced significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which have caused market prices of equity and debt securities to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings less attractive, and in certain cases have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of financing. Uncertainty in the equity and credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional financing at reasonable terms, which may adversely affect our ability to make acquisitions. A prolonged downturn in the equity or credit markets may cause us to refinance at higher rates, seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing, and may require us to adjust our business plan accordingly. In addition, these factors may make it more difficult for us to buy or sell properties, may adversely affect the price we purchase or receive for properties, as we and prospective buyers may experience increased costs of financing or difficulties in obtaining financing. These events in the equity and credit markets may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of common stock, preferred stock or debt securities. These disruptions in the financial markets also may have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock and debt securities, the income we receive from our properties and the lease rates we can charge for our properties, as well as other unknown adverse effects on us or the economy in general. Inflation (including prolonged inflationary periods) may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Increased inflation or anticipated inflationary periods could have a more pronounced negative impact on any variable rate debt we incur in the future and on our results of operations. During times when inflation is greater than increases in rent, as provided for in our leases, rent increases may not keep up with the rate of inflation and other costs (including increases in employment and other fees and expenses). Government regulations may limit the indices we can utilize in lease adjustments and, in turn, limit our ability to increase rent in our leases. Even though net leases reduce our exposure to rising property expenses due to inflation, substantial inflationary pressures and increased costs may have an adverse impact on our clients if increases in their operating expenses exceed increases in revenue, which may adversely affect our clients’ ability to pay rent. The U.K. government plans to migrate away from the Retail Price Index (RPI), which has been widely used in lease adjustments, to alternatives such as the Consumer Price Index including owner occupiers' housing costs (CPIH), that may result in a lower measure of inflation and, in turn, have a negative impact on our lease revenue currently tied to RPI in the U.K. Inflationary periods may cause us to experience increased costs of financing, make it difficult to refinance debt at attractive rates or at all, and may adversely affect the properties we can acquire if the cost of financing an acquisition is in excess of our anticipated earnings from such property thereby limiting the properties that can be acquired. All of these may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. To the extent periods of high inflation are prolonged, these results may be exacerbated. 35

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

GENERAL Realty Income, The Monthly Dividend Company ® , is an S&P 500 company and member of the S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrats ® index for having increased its dividend every year for over 25 consecutive years. We invest in people and places to deliver dependable monthly dividends that increase over time. We are structured as a REIT requiring us annually to distribute at least 90% of our taxable income (excluding net capital gains) in the form of dividends to our stockholders. The monthly dividends are supported by the cash flow generated from real estate owned under long-term net lease agreements with our commercial clients. Realty Income was founded in 1969, and listed on the NYSE under the ticker symbol "O" in 1994. Over the past 54 years, Realty Income has been acquiring and managing freestanding commercial properties that generate rental revenue under long-term net lease agreements with our commercial clients. At December 31, 2022, our diversified portfolio consisted of: • Owned or held interests in 12,237 properties; • An occupancy rate of 99.0%, or 12,111 properties leased and 126 properties available for lease or sale; • Clients doing business in 84 separate industries; • Locations in all 50 U.S. states, Puerto Rico, the U.K., Spain, and Italy; • Approximately 236.8 million square feet of leasable space; • A weighted average remaining lease term (excluding rights to extend a lease at the option of our client) of approximately 9.5 years; and • An average leasable space per property of approximately 19,350 square feet, approximately 13,000 square feet per retail property and approximately 234,100 square feet per industrial property. Of the 12,237 properties in the portfolio at December 31, 2022, 12,018, or 98.2%, are single-client properties, of which 11,894 were leased, and the remaining are multi-client properties. Unless otherwise specified, references to rental revenue in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are exclusive of reimbursements from clients for recoverable real estate taxes and operating expenses totaling $184.7 million, $104.9 million and $79.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. In addition, references to reserves recorded as a reduction of rental revenue include amounts reserved for in the current period, as well as unrecognized contractual revenue and unrecognized straight-line rental revenue for leases accounted for on a cash basis. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Capital Philosophy Our goal is to deliver dependable monthly dividends to our shareholders that increase over time. Historically, we have met our principal short-term and long-term capital needs, including the funding of high-quality real estate 37 acquisitions, property development, and capital expenditures, by issuing common stock, preferred stock, long-term unsecured notes and term loan borrowings. Over the long term, we believe that common stock should be the majority of our capital structure. We may issue common stock when we believe our share price is at a level that allows for the proceeds of an offering to be accretively invested into additional properties or to permanently finance properties that were initially financed by our revolving credit facility, commercial paper programs, or shorter-term debt securities. However, we cannot assure you that we will have access to the capital markets at all times and at terms that are acceptable to us. Our primary cash obligations, for the current year and subsequent years, are included in the “Table of Obligations,” which is presented later in this section. We expect to fund our operating expenses and other short-term liquidity requirements, including property acquisitions and development costs, payment of principal and interest on our outstanding indebtedness, property improvements, re-leasing costs, and cash distributions to common stockholders, primarily through cash provided by operating activities, borrowings under our revolving credit facility, short-term term loans, and under our commercial paper programs, and through public securities offerings. As of December 31, 2022, there are approximately $2.0 billion of obligations becoming due during 2023, which we expect to fund through a combination of the following: • Cash and cash equivalents; • Future cash flows from operations; • Issuances of common stock or debt; and • Additional borrowings under our revolving credit facility (after deducting outstanding borrowings under our commercial paper programs). We may choose to mitigate our financial exposure to exchange rate risk for properties acquired outside the U.S. through the issuance of debt securities denominated in the same local currency and through currency derivatives.  We may leave a portion of our foreign cash flow unhedged to reinvest in additional properties in the same local currency. Conservative Capital Structure We believe that our stockholders are best served by a conservative capital structure. Therefore, we seek to maintain a conservative debt level on our balance sheet and solid interest and fixed charge coverage ratios. At December 31, 2022, our total outstanding borrowings of senior unsecured notes and bonds, $250.0 million term loan, mortgages payable, revolving credit facility and commercial paper were $17.9 billion, or approximately 29.9% of our total market capitalization of $59.9 billion. We define our total market capitalization at December 31, 2022, as the sum of: • Shares of our common stock outstanding of 660,300,195, plus total common units outstanding of 1,795,167, multiplied by the last reported sales price of our common stock on the NYSE of $63.43 per share on December 31, 2022, or $42.0 billion; • Outstanding borrowings of $2.0 billion on our revolving credit facility, comprised of €1.8 billion Euro and £70.0 million Sterling borrowings; • Outstanding borrowings of $701.8 million on our commercial paper programs, including €361.0 million of Euro-denominated borrowings; • Outstanding mortgages payable of $842.3 million, excluding net mortgage premiums of $12.4 million and deferred financing costs of $0.8 million; • Outstanding borrowings on our $250.0 million term loan, excluding deferred financing costs of $0.2 million; and • Outstanding senior unsecured notes and bonds of $14.1 billion, including Sterling-denominated notes of £2.57 billion, and excluding unamortized net premiums of $224.6 million and deferred financing costs of $60.7 million. Universal Shelf Registration In June 2021, we filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC, which is effective for a term of three years and will expire in June 2024. In accordance with SEC rules, the amount of securities to be issued pursuant to this shelf registration statement was not specified when it was filed and there is no specific dollar limit. The securities covered by this registration statement include (1) common stock, (2) preferred stock, (3) debt securities, (4) depositary shares representing fractional interests in shares of preferred stock, (5) warrants to purchase debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, or depositary shares, and (6) any combination of these securities. We may periodically offer one or more of these securities in amounts, prices and on terms to be announced when and if 38 these securities are offered. The specifics of any future offerings, along with the use of proceeds of any securities offered, will be described in detail in a prospectus supplement, or other offering materials, at the time of any offering. Equity Capital Raising Under our ATM program, up to 120,000,000 shares of common stock may be offered and sold (1) by us to, or through, a consortium of banks acting as our sales agents or (2) by a consortium of banks acting as forward sellers on behalf of any forward purchasers contemplated thereunder, in each case by means of ordinary brokers’ transactions on the NYSE at prevailing market prices, at prices related to prevailing market prices or at negotiated prices or by any other methods permitted by applicable law. We currently expect to fully physically cash settle any forward sale agreement with the respective forward purchaser on one or more dates specified by us on or prior to the maturity date of such forward sale agreement, in which case we expect to receive aggregate net cash proceeds at settlement equal to the number of shares specified in such forward sale agreement multiplied by the relevant forward price per share. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we issued 68,608,176 shares and raised approximately $4.6 billion of net proceeds under the ATM programs. With respect to forward sales pursuant to our ATM program, we do not initially receive any proceeds from any sale of shares of our common stock borrowed by a forward purchaser and sold through a forward seller. As of December 31, 2022, there were 6,744,884 shares of common stock subject to forward sale agreements through our ATM program, with a weighted average initial price of $63.31 per share, representing approximately $0.4 billion in estimated net proceeds (assuming full physical settlement of all outstanding shares of common stock subject to such forward sale agreements and certain assumptions made with respect to settlement dates), which have been executed but not settled. The weighted average forward price at December 31, 2022 was $62.59 per share, after price deduction and adjustments. After deducting the 6,744,884 shares sold pursuant to forward sale confirmations that remained outstanding as of December 31, 2022, we had 70,620,121 shares remaining for future issuance under our ATM program. We anticipate maintaining the availability of our ATM program in the future, including the replenishment of authorized shares issuable thereunder. Our Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan, (our "DRSPP"), provides our common stockholders, as well as new investors, with a convenient and economical method of purchasing our common stock and reinvesting their distributions. Our DRSPP also allows our current stockholders to buy additional shares of common stock by reinvesting all or a portion of their distributions. Our DRSPP authorizes up to 26,000,000 common shares to be issued. Our DRSPP includes a waiver approval process, allowing larger investors or institutions, per a formal approval process, to purchase shares at a small discount, if approved by us. We did not issue shares under the waiver approval process during the year ended December 31, 2022. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we issued 175,554 shares and raised approximately $11.7 million under our DRSPP. At December 31, 2022, we had 11,159,825 shares remaining for future issuance under our DRSPP program. There were no issuances of common stock in underwritten public offerings during the year ended December 31, 2022. Revolving Credit Facility We have a $4.25 billion unsecured revolving multicurrency credit facility that matures in June 2026, includes two six-month extensions that can be exercised at our option and allows us to borrow in up to 14 currencies, including U.S. dollars. Our revolving credit facility also has a $1.0 billion expansion feature, which is subject to obtaining lender commitments. Under our revolving credit facility, our current investment grade credit ratings provide for financing on USD borrowings at the Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR"), plus 0.725% with a SOFR adjustment charge of 0.10% and a revolving credit facility fee of 0.125%, for all-in pricing of 0.95% over SOFR, British Pound Sterling at the Sterling Overnight Indexed Average (“SONIA”), plus 0.725% with a SONIA adjustment charge of 0.0326% and a revolving credit facility fee of 0.125%, for all-in pricing of 0.8826% over SONIA, and Euro Borrowings at one-month Euro Interbank Offered Rate (“EURIBOR”), plus 0.725%, and a revolving credit facility fee of 0.125%, for all-in pricing of 0.85% over one-month EURIBOR. The borrowing rate is subject to an interest rate floor and may change if our investment grade credit ratings change. We also have other interest rate options available to us in different currencies. Our credit facility is unsecured and accordingly, we have not pledged any assets as collateral for this obligation . At December 31, 2022, we had a borrowing capacity of $2.2 billion available on our revolving credit facility (subject to customary conditions to borrowings) and an outstanding balance of $2.0 billion, comprised of €1.8 billion Euro and £70.0 million Sterling borrowings. The weighted average interest rate on borrowings under our revolving credit facility during the year ended December 31, 2022, was 1.8% per annum. Our revolving credit facility is subject to various leverage and interest coverage ration limitations, as at December 31, 2022, we were in compliance with 39 these covenants. We expect to use our credit facility to acquire additional properties and for other general corporate purposes. Any additional borrowings will increase our exposure to interest rate risk. Commercial Paper Programs During July 2022, our USD-denominated unsecured commercial paper program was amended to increase the maximum aggregate amount of outstanding notes from $1.0 billion to $1.5 billion. We also established a Euro-denominated unsecured commercial paper program, which permits us to issue additional unsecured commercial notes up to a maximum aggregate amount of $1.5 billion (or foreign currency equivalent), which may be issued in U.S. Dollars or various other foreign currencies, including but not limited to, Euros, Sterling, Swiss Francs, Yen, Canadian Dollars, and Australian Dollars, in each case, pursuant to customary terms in the European commercial paper note market.  At December 31, 2022, we had an outstanding balance of $701.8 million, including €361.0 million of Euro-denominated borrowings. The weighted average interest rate on borrowings under our commercial paper programs was 1.6% for the year ended December 31, 2022. The commercial paper borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2022 have matured and will mature between January 2023 and February 2023. We use our $4.25 billion revolving credit facility as a liquidity backstop for the repayment of the notes issued under the commercial paper programs. We generally use our credit facility and commercial paper borrowings for the short-term financing of new property acquisitions. Thereafter, we generally seek to refinance those borrowings with the net proceeds of long-term or more permanent financing, including the issuance of equity or debt securities. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to obtain any such refinancing, or that market conditions prevailing at the time of the refinancing will enable us to issue equity or debt securities at acceptable terms. We regularly review our credit facility and commercial paper programs and may seek to extend, renew or replace our credit facility and commercial paper programs, to the extent we deem appropriate. Term Loans On January 6, 2023 we entered into the Term Loan Agreement governing our term loan, pursuant to which we borrowed an aggregate of approximately $1.0 billion in multicurrency borrowings, including $90.0 million, £705.0 million and €85.0 million in outstanding borrowings. The Term Loan Agreement also permits us to incur additional term loans, up to an aggregate of $1.5 billion in total borrowings. The Term Loans initially mature in January 2024 and include two 12-month maturity extensions that can be exercised at the company's option. Our A3/A- credit ratings provide for a borrowing rate of 80 basis points over the applicable benchmark rate, which includes adjusted SOFR for USD-denominated loans, adjusted SONIA for Sterling-denominated loans, and EURIBOR for Euro-denominated loans. In October 2018, in conjunction with entering into our current revolving credit facility, we entered into a $250.0 million senior unsecured term loan, which matures in March 2024. Prior to April 2022, borrowing under this term loan bore interest at the current one-month London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”), plus 0.85%. In connection with entering into our new unsecured credit facility in April 2022, the previous LIBOR benchmark rate was replaced with daily SOFR, based on a five-day lookback period, and, due to our current credit ratings, is not subject to a credit spread adjustment. In conjunction with this term loan, we also entered into an interest rate swap, which was based off the daily SOFR through June 30, 2022. As of December 31, 2022, the effective interest rate on this term loan, after giving effect to the interest rate swap, was 3.83%. Mortgage Debt As of December 31, 2022, we had $842.3 million of mortgages payable, of which £30.7 million related to a Sterling-denominated mortgage. The majority of our mortgages payable were assumed in connection with our merger with VEREIT or with our property acquisitions, including the assumption of eight mortgages on 17 properties totaling $45.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2022. At December 31, 2022, we had net premiums totaling $12.4 million on these mortgages and deferred financing costs of $0.8 million. We expect to pay off the mortgages payable as soon as prepayment penalties have declined to a level that would make it economically feasible to do so. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we made $312.2 million in principal payments, including the repayment of 12 mortgages in full for $308.0 million. Our mortgages contain customary covenants, such as limiting our ability to further mortgage each applicable property or to discontinue insurance coverage without the prior consent of the lender. At December 31, 2022, we were in compliance with these covenants. 40 Notes Outstanding As of December 31, 2022, our senior unsecured note and bond obligations had a total principal amount of $14.1 billion, including Sterling- denominated notes of £2.57 billion, and excluding net unamortized premiums of $224.6 million and deferred financing costs of $60.7 million. See note 9. Notes Payable to our consolidated financial statements for the full list of senior unsecured notes and bonds, by maturity date. The following table summarizes the maturity of our notes and bonds payable as of December 31, 2022, excluding net unamortized premiums of $224.6 million and deferred financing costs of $60.7 million (dollars in millions): During the year ended December 31, 2022, we issued the following notes and bonds (in millions): In January 2023, we issued $500 million of 5.05% senior unsecured notes due January 2026 and $600 million of 4.85% senior unsecured notes due March 2030. See Note 19, Subsequent Events to our consolidated financial statements. All of our outstanding notes and bonds have fixed interest rates and contain various covenants, with which we remained in compliance as of December 31, 2022. Interest on our £400 million of 1.625% senior unsecured notes issued in October 2020, our £400 million of 1.125% senior unsecured notes issued in July 2021, our £350 million of 1.750% senior unsecured notes also issued in July 2021, our £250 million of 1.875% senior unsecured notes issued in January 2022, and £250 million of 2.500% senior unsecured notes also issued in January 2022 is paid annually. Interest on our remaining senior unsecured note and bond obligations is paid semiannually. The following is a summary of the key financial covenants for our senior unsecured notes, as defined and calculated per the terms of our senior notes and bonds. These calculations, which are not based on U.S. GAAP, are presented to investors to show our ability to incur additional debt under the terms of our senior notes and bonds as well as to disclose our current compliance with such covenants and are not measures of our liquidity or performance. The actual amounts as of December 31, 2022, are: (1) Our debt service coverage ratio is calculated on a pro forma basis for the preceding four-quarter period on the assumptions that: (i) the incurrence of any debt (as defined in the covenants) incurred by us since the first day of such four-quarter period and the application of the proceeds therefrom (including to refinance other debt since the first day of such four-quarter period), (ii) the repayment or retirement of any of our debt since the first day of such four-quarter period, and (iii) any acquisition or disposition by us of any asset or group since the first day of such four quarters had in each case occurred on January 1, 2022 and subject to certain additional adjustments. Such pro forma ratio has been prepared on the basis required by that debt service covenant, reflects various estimates and assumptions and is subject to other uncertainties, and therefore does not purport to reflect what our actual debt service coverage ratio would have been had transactions referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of the preceding sentence occurred as of January 1, 2022, nor does it purport to reflect our debt service coverage ratio for any 41 future period. The following is our calculation of debt service and fixed charge coverage at December 31, 2022 (in thousands, for trailing twelve months): Cash Reserves We are organized to operate as an equity REIT that acquires and leases properties and distributes to stockholders, in the form of monthly cash distributions, a substantial portion of our net cash flow generated from leases on our properties. We intend to retain an appropriate amount of cash as working capital. At December 31, 2022, we had cash and cash equivalents totaling $171.1 million, inclusive of £74.3 million denominated in Sterling and €17.8 million denominated in Euro. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents on hand, cash provided from operating activities, and borrowing capacity is sufficient to meet our liquidity needs for the next twelve months. We intend, however, to use permanent or long-term capital to fund property acquisitions and to repay future borrowings under our credit facility and commercial paper programs. Credit Agency Ratings The borrowing interest rates under our revolving credit facility are based upon our ratings assigned by credit rating agencies. As of December 31, 2022, we were assigned the following investment grade corporate credit ratings on our senior unsecured notes and bonds: Moody’s Investors Service has assigned a rating of A3 with a “stable” outlook and Standard & Poor’s Ratings Group has assigned a rating of A- with a “stable” outlook. In addition, we were assigned the following ratings on our commercial paper at December 31, 2022: Moody's Investors Service has assigned a rating of P-2 and Standard & Poor's Ratings Group has assigned a rating of A-2. Based on our credit agency ratings as of December 31, 2022, interest rates under our new credit facility for U.S. borrowings would have been at the SOFR, plus 0.725% with a SOFR adjustment charge of 0.10% and a revolving credit facility fee of 0.125%, for all-in pricing of 0.95% over SOFR, for British Pound Sterling borrowings, at the SONIA, plus 0.725% with a SONIA adjustment charge of 0.0326% and a revolving credit facility fee of 0.125%, for all-in pricing of 0.8826% over SONIA, and for Euro Borrowings at one-month Euro Interbank Offered Rate (“EURIBOR”), plus 0.725%, and a revolving credit facility fee of 0.125%, for all-in pricing of 0.85% over one-month EURIBOR. In addition, our new credit facility provides that the interest rates can range between: (i) SOFR/SONIA/EURIBOR, plus 1.40% if our credit rating is lower than BBB-/Baa3 or our senior unsecured debt is unrated and (ii) SOFR/SONIA/EURIBOR, plus 0.70% if our credit rating is A/A2 or higher. In addition, our credit facility provides for a facility commitment fee based on our credit ratings, which range from: (i) 0.30% for a rating lower than BBB-/Baa3 or unrated, and (ii) 0.10% for a credit rating of A/A2 or higher . We also issue senior debt securities from time to time and our credit ratings can impact the interest rates charged in those transactions. If our credit ratings or ratings outlook change, our cost to obtain debt financing could increase or decrease. The credit ratings assigned to us could change based upon, among other things, our results of operations and financial condition. These ratings are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and we cannot assure you that our ratings will not be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future if, in its judgment, circumstances warrant. Moreover, a rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold our debt securities, preferred stock or common stock. 42 Table of Obligations The following table summarizes the maturity of each of our obligations as of December 31, 2022 (dollars in millions): (1) The initial term of the credit facility expires in June 2026 and includes, at our option, two six-month extensions. At December 31, 2022, there were $2.0 billion borrowings under our revolving credit facility. Commercial paper programs outstanding at December 31, 2022 were $701.8 million, which have matured and will mature between January 2023 and February 2023. (2) Excludes non-cash net premiums recorded on notes payable of $224.6 million and deferred financing costs of $60.7 million. The table of obligations also excludes the January 2023 issuances of $500.0 million of senior unsecured notes due January 2026, which are callable at par on January 13, 2024, and $600.0 million of senior unsecured notes due March 2030, which are callable at par on January 15, 2030. (3) Excludes deferred financing costs of $0.2 million as well as the approximately $1.0 billion multicurrency unsecured term loan entered into in January 2023. (4) Excludes both non-cash net premiums recorded on the mortgages payable of $12.4 million and deferred financing costs of $0.8 million. (5) Interest on the term loan, notes, bonds, mortgages payable, credit facility and commercial paper programs has been calculated based on outstanding balances at period end through their respective maturity dates. Excludes interest on the multicurrency term loan entered into January 2023 for approximately$1.0 billion, which matures January 2024, as well as on our January 2023 issuances of $500 million of senior unsecured notes, which are callable at par on January 13, 2024, and $600 million of senior unsecured notes due March 2030. (6) We currently pay the ground lessors directly for the rent under the ground leases. (7) Our clients, who are generally sub-clients under ground leases, are responsible for paying the rent under these ground leases. In the event our client fails to pay the ground lease rent, we are primarily responsible. (8) “Other” consists of $606.3 million of commitments under construction contracts, and $21.7 million for re-leasing costs, recurring capital expenditures, and non-recurring building improvements. Our credit facility, commercial paper programs, term loans, and notes payable obligations are unsecured. Accordingly, we have not pledged any assets as collateral for these obligations. Unconsolidated Investments As a result of our VEREIT merger, we assumed an equity method investment in three unconsolidated entities.  In 2022, all seven assets owned by our industrial partnerships acquired in connection with the VEREIT merger were sold. The gross purchase price for the properties was $905.0 million and we collected $114.0 million of net proceeds (after mortgage defeasance and closing costs) to date, representing our proportionate share of partnership distributions. Up until the point of sale of these properties, we were responsible for funding our proportionate share of any operating cash deficits pursuant to the governance documents of the applicable entities. There are no further material commitments related to those investments. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Critical Accounting Policies Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and are the basis for our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. Preparing our consolidated financial statements requires us to make a number of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. We believe that we have made these estimates and assumptions in an appropriate manner and in a way that accurately reflects our financial condition. We continually test and evaluate these estimates and assumptions using our historical knowledge of the business, as well as other factors, to ensure that they are reasonable for reporting purposes. However, actual results may differ from these estimates and assumptions. This summary should be read in conjunction with the more complete discussion of our accounting policies and procedures included in note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Procedures and New Accounting Standards , to our consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. 43 In order to prepare our consolidated financial statements according to the rules and guidelines set forth by U.S. GAAP, many subjective judgments must be made with regard to critical accounting policies. Management must make significant assumptions in determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. When acquiring a property for investment purposes, we typically allocate the cost of real estate acquired, inclusive of transaction costs, to: (1) land, (2) building and improvements, and (3) identified intangible assets and liabilities, based in each case on their relative estimated fair values. Intangible assets and liabilities consist of above-market or below-market lease value and the value of in-place leases, as applicable. Additionally, above-market rents on certain leases under which we are a lessor are accounted for as financing receivables amortizing over the lease term, while below-market rents on certain leases under which we are a lessor are accounted for as prepaid rent. In an acquisition of multiple properties, we must also allocate the purchase price among the properties. The allocation of the purchase price is based on our assessment of estimated fair value of the land, building and improvements, and identified intangible assets and liabilities and is often based upon the various characteristics of the market where the property is located. In addition, any assumed mortgages are recorded at their estimated fair values. The estimated fair values of our mortgages payable have been calculated by discounting the future cash flows using applicable interest rates that have been adjusted for factors, such as industry type, client investment grade, maturity date, and comparable borrowings for similar assets. The use of different assumptions in the allocation of the purchase price of the acquired properties and liabilities assumed could affect the timing of recognition of the related revenue and expenses. Another significant judgment must be made as to if, and when, impairment losses should be taken on our properties when events or a change in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. If estimated future operating cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) plus estimated disposition proceeds (undiscounted) are less than the current book value of the property, a fair value analysis is performed and, to the extent the estimated fair value is less than the current book value, a provision for impairment is recorded to reduce the book value to estimated fair value. Key inputs that we utilize in this analysis include projected rental rates, estimated holding periods, capital expenditures, and property sales capitalization rates. If a property is held for sale, it is carried at the lower of carrying cost or estimated fair value, less estimated cost to sell. The carrying value of our real estate is the largest component of our consolidated balance sheets. Our strategy of primarily holding properties, long-term, directly decreases the likelihood of their carrying values not being recoverable, thus requiring the recognition of an impairment. However, if our strategy, or one or more of the above assumptions were to change in the future, an impairment may need to be recognized. If events should occur that require us to reduce the carrying value of our real estate by recording provisions for impairment, they could have a material impact on our results of operations. The following is a comparison of our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020. Total Revenue The following summarizes our total revenue (dollars in thousands): The increase in total revenue primarily relates to the merger with VEREIT and acquisitions for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 . 44 Rental Revenue (excluding reimbursable) The table below summarizes our rental revenue (excluding reimbursable, dollars in thousands): (1) Excludes 5,909,738 square feet from properties ground leased to clients and 2,654,136 square feet from properties with no land or building ownership. (2) The same store rental revenue percentage increase for the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared with the same period in the prior year is 1.8%. (3) Following of the closing of our merger with VEREIT, we contributed 92 office real estate assets, a consolidated real estate venture holding one office asset, and an unconsolidated real estate venture holding five office assets to a wholly owned subsidiary named Orion Office REIT Inc. ("Orion"). On November 12, 2021, we distributed the outstanding shares of Orion common stock to our shareholders (including legacy VEREIT stockholders who received shares of our common stock in our merger with VEREIT) on a pro rata basis at a rate of one share of Orion common stock for every ten shares of Realty Income common stock held on November 12, 2021, the applicable record date, which we refer to as the Orion Divestiture. (4) For purposes of comparability, same store rental revenue is presented on a constant currency basis using the exchange rate as of December 31, 2022, of 1.20 British Pound Sterling ("GBP")/USD. None of the properties in Spain or Italy met our same store pool definition for the periods presented. (5) Relates to the aggregate of (i) rental revenue from properties (292 properties comprising 6,552,442 square feet) that were available for lease during part of 2022 or 2021, and (ii) rental revenue for properties (16 properties comprising 705,541 square feet) under development or completed developments that do not meet our same store pool definition for the periods presented. (6) Primarily consists of reimbursements for tenant improvements and rental revenue that is not contractual base rent such as lease termination settlements. (7) Amounts for the year ended December 31, 2021 represent rental revenue from VEREIT properties, which were not included in our financial statements prior to the close of the merger on November 1, 2021. The table below summarizes the increase in rental revenue (excluding reimbursable) in 2021 compared to 2020 (dollars in thousands): 45 (1) Excludes 5,869,364 square feet from properties ground leased to clients and 2,100,990 square feet from properties with no land or building ownership. (2) The same store rental revenue percentage increase for the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared with the same period in the prior year is 2.8%. (3) For purposes of comparability, same store rental revenue is presented on a constant currency basis using the exchange rate as of December 31, 2021 of 1.35 GBP/USD. None of the properties in Spain met our same store pool definition for the periods presented. In addition, the same store pool excludes properties assumed on November 1, 2021 as a result of our merger with VEREIT. (4) Relates to the aggregate of (i) rental revenue from properties (128 properties comprising 2,292,635 square feet) that were available for lease during part of 2021 or 2020, (ii) rental revenue for properties (nine properties comprising 357,605 square feet) under development or completed developments that do not meet our same store pool definition for the periods presented. (5) Primarily consists of reimbursements for tenant improvements and rental revenue that is not contractual base rent such as lease termination settlements. For purposes of determining the same store rent property pool, we include all properties that were owned for the entire year-to-date period, for both the current and prior year, except for properties during the current or prior year that; (i) were vacant at any time, (ii) were under development or redevelopment, or (iii) were involved in eminent domain and rent was reduced. Beginning with the first quarter of 2022, properties acquired through the merger with VEREIT were considered under each element of our same store pool criterion, except for the requirement that the property be owned for the full comparative period.  If the property was owned by VEREIT for the full comparative period and each of the other criteria were met, the property was included in our same store property pool. Each of the exclusions from the same store pool are separately addressed within the applicable sentences above, explaining the changes in rental revenue for the period. Our calculation of same store rental revenue includes rent deferred for future payment as a result of lease concessions we granted in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and recognized under the practical expedient provided by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the "FASB"). Our calculation of same store rental revenue also includes uncollected rent for which we have not granted a lease concession. If these applicable amounts of rent deferrals and uncollected rent were excluded from our calculation of same store rental revenue, the increases for 2022 relative to 2021 and 2021 relative to 2020 would have been 2.3% and 7.7%, respectively. Of the 12,237 properties in the portfolio at December 31, 2022, 12,018, or 98.2%, are single-client properties and the remaining are multi-client properties. Of the 12,018 single-client properties, 11,894, or 99.0%, were net leased at December 31, 2022. Of the 12,797 in-place leases in the portfolio, which excludes 181 vacant units, 10,835, or 84.7%, were under leases that provide for increases in rents through: • Base rent increases tied to inflation (typically subject to ceilings); • Percentage rent based on a percentage of the clients’ gross sales; • Fixed increases; or • A combination of two or more of the above rent provisions. Rent based on a percentage of our client's gross sales, or percentage rent, was $14.9 million, $6.5 million and $5.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Percentage rent represents less than 1% of rental revenue. At December 31, 2022, our portfolio of 12,237 properties was 99.0% leased with 126 properties available for lease, as compared to 98.5% leased with 164 properties available for lease at December 31, 2021. It has been our experience that approximately 1% to 4% of our property portfolio will be available for lease at any given time; however, it is possible that the number of properties available for lease or sale could increase in the future, given the nature of economic cycles and other unforeseen global events, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. Rental Revenue (reimbursable) A number of our leases provide for contractually obligated reimbursements from clients for recoverable real estate taxes and operating expenses. The increase in contractually obligated reimbursements by our clients in the periods presented is primarily due to the growth of our portfolio due to acquisitions. Other Revenue Other revenue primarily relates to interest income recognized on financing receivables for certain leases with above-market terms. The increases in the periods presented are due to additional leases with above-market terms, which is proportional to overall portfolio growth. 46 Total Expenses The following summarizes our total expenses (dollars in thousands): (1) Excludes rental revenue (reimbursable). (2) General and administrative expenses for 2020 included an executive severance charge related to the departure of our former Chief Financial Officer ("CFO") in March 2020. The total value of cash, stock compensation and professional fees incurred as a result of this severance was $3.5 million and was recorded to general and administrative expense. In order to present a normalized calculation of our general and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenue for 2020, we have excluded this executive severance charge to arrive at a normalized general and administrative amount of $69.8 million which was used for our calculation. Depreciation and Amortization The increase in depreciation and amortization is primarily due to the acquisition of properties in 2022 and 2021, which was partially offset by property sales in those same periods. The 2021 acquisition volume was primarily driven by the merger with VEREIT. As discussed in the sections entitled “Funds from Operations Available to Common Stockholders (FFO) and Normalized Funds from Operations Available to Common Stockholders (Normalized FFO)" and “Adjusted Funds from Operations Available to Common Stockholders (AFFO),” depreciation and amortization is a non-cash item that is added back to net income available to common stockholders for our calculation of FFO, Normalized FFO, and AFFO. 47 Interest Expense The following is a summary of the components of our interest expense (dollars in thousands): The increase in interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2022 is primarily due to the following: (i) the October 2022 issuance of $750.0 million in principal of notes, (ii) the June 2022 issuance of £600 million in principal of Sterling-denominated notes, (iii) the January 2022 issuance of £500 million in principal of Sterling-denominated notes, (iv) the issuance of $4.65 billion in principal of notes associated with the exchange offer and assumption of $839.1 million in principal of mortgage debt, both associated with our merger with VEREIT in November 2021, and (v) the July 2021 issuance of £750 million in principal of Sterling-denominated notes, as well as higher average balances and interest rates on the credit facility and commercial paper borrowings, partially offset by the December 2021 early redemption on all $750.0 million in principal of the 4.650% notes due August 2023, and the January 2021 early redemption on all $950.0 million in principal of the 3.250% notes due October 2022. The increase in interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2021 is primarily due to the issuance of $4.65 billion in principal of notes associated with our merger with VEREIT as discussed above, the issuance of senior unsecured notes during 2020 and 2021 outside of our merger with VEREIT, which included aggregate totals of $1.68 billion in principal of USD-denominated notes and £1.15 billion in principal of Sterling-denominated notes, partially offset by the early redemptions during 2021 and 2020 of $1.2 billion of notes, increases in amortization of net note and mortgage premiums, and lower average balances on our credit facility and commercial paper borrowings. During the year ended December 31, 2022, the weighted average interest rate on our: • Revolving credit facility outstanding borrowings of $2.0 billion was 1.8%; • Commercial paper outstanding borrowings of $701.8 million was 1.6%; • Term loan outstanding of $250.0 million (excluding deferred financing costs of $0.2 million) was swapped to fixed at 3.8%; • Mortgages payable of $842.3 million (excluding net premiums totaling $12.4 million and deferred financing costs of $0.8 million on these mortgages) was 4.8%; • Notes and bonds payable of $14.1 billion (excluding net unamortized original issue premiums of $224.6 million and deferred financing costs of $60.7 million) was 3.3%; and • Notes, bonds, mortgages, $250.0 million term loan, and credit facility and commercial paper borrowings of $17.9 billion (excluding all net premiums and deferred financing costs) was 3.15%. 48 Property Expenses (excluding reimbursable) Property expenses (excluding reimbursable) consist of costs associated with properties available for lease, non-net-leased properties and general portfolio expenses. Expenses related to properties available for lease and non-net-leased properties include, but are not limited to, property taxes, maintenance, insurance, utilities, property inspections and legal fees. General portfolio costs include, but are not limited to, insurance, legal, property inspections, and title search fees. At December 31, 2022, 126 properties were available for lease or sale, as compared to 164 at December 31, 2021, and 140 at December 31, 2020. The increase in property expenses (excluding reimbursable) for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 is primarily due to the increase in portfolio size, resulting in higher utilities, repairs and maintenance, property-related legal expenses, property taxes, insurance expenses and reserves for contractually obligated reimbursements by our clients. Property Expenses (reimbursable) The increase in property expenses (reimbursable) for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, is primarily attributable to our increased portfolio size, which contributed to higher operating expenses as a result of our acquisitions during the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, and an increase in ground lease rent, insurance, and property taxes paid on behalf of our clients. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses are expenditures related to the operations of our company, including employee-related costs, professional fees, and other general overhead costs associated with running our business. The increase in general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2022 is primarily due to higher payroll-related costs, corporate-level professional fees, corporate occupancy costs, and information technology costs associated with the growth of the company, including the merger with VEREIT. The increase in general and administrative expenses for 2021 is primarily due to higher payroll-related costs and corporate-level professional fees. Provisions for Impairment The following table summarizes provisions for impairment during the periods indicated below (dollars in millions): The impairments for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 primarily relate to properties sold, in the process of being sold, or vacant. We identify the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic as an impairment triggering event for properties occupied by certain of our clients experiencing difficulties meeting their lease obligations to us. After considering the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on the key assumptions, we determined that the carrying values of 38 properties classified as held for investment for the year ended December 31, 2020 were not recoverable. As a result, we recorded provisions for impairment of $105.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 on the applicable properties impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Merger and Integration-Related Costs In conjunction with our merger with VEREIT, we incurred approximately $13.9 million and $167.4 million of merger and integration-related transaction costs during the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. There were no such costs incurred during the year ended December 31, 2020. Merger and integration-related costs consist of advisory fees, attorney fees, accountant fees, SEC filing fees and additional incremental and non-recurring costs necessary to convert data and systems, retain employees and otherwise enable us to operate the acquired business or assets efficiently. Gain on Sales of Real Estate The following summarizes our property dispositions, excluding our proportionate share of net proceeds from the disposition of properties by our consolidated industrial partnerships in 2022 (dollars in millions): 49 Foreign Currency and Derivative Gains (Losses), Net We borrow in the functional currencies of the countries in which we invest. Net foreign currency gain and loss are primarily related to the remeasurement of intercompany debt from foreign subsidiaries. Gain and loss on foreign currency are largely offset by derivative gain and loss. Derivative gain and loss relates to mark-to-market adjustments on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting. Net derivative gain and loss are primarily related to realized and unrealized short term currency exchange swaps. Gain and loss on derivatives are largely offset by foreign currency gain and loss. In June 2022, following the early prepayment of our Sterling-denominated intercompany loan receivable from our consolidated foreign subsidiaries, we terminated the four cross-currency swaps used to hedge the foreign currency exposure of the intercompany loan. As the hedge relationship was terminated and the future principal and interest associated with the prepaid intercompany loan will not occur, $20.0 million gain was reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income ("AOCI"), to 'Foreign currency and derivative (loss) gain, net' during the year ended December 31, 2022. The reclassification from AOCI was offset by $7.9 million in losses from the intercompany loan remeasurement on the final exchange. Gain (loss) on extinguishment of debt We redeemed the following principal amounts (in millions) of certain outstanding notes and mortgages, prior to their maturity. As a result of these early redemptions, we recognized the following losses on extinguishment of debt (in millions) in the consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income. There were no comparable repayments for the year ended December 31, 2022. (1) The redeemed principal amounts presented exclude the amounts we paid in accrued and unpaid interest. Equity in Income and Impairment of Investment in Unconsolidated Entities Equity in income and impairment of investment in unconsolidated entities for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 relate to three equity method investments that were acquired in our merger with VEREIT. The loss for the year ended December 31, 2022 is primarily driven by an other than temporary impairment. There were no comparative investments for the year ended December 31, 2020. During 2022 all seven of the properties owned by our industrial partnerships acquired in connection with the VEREIT merger were sold. Other Income, Net Certain miscellaneous non-recurring revenue is included in other income, net. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to 2021, is primarily related to an increase in gain on insurance proceeds from recoveries on property losses exceeding our carrying value, an increase in gain from the involuntary conversions of real estate, gains on land sales and higher interest income due to higher average cash balances. 50 The increase for the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, is primarily related to an increase in gain on insurance proceeds from recoveries on property losses exceeding our carrying value and an increase in gain from the involuntary conversions of real estate, which was partially offset by a decrease in interest income from lower average cash balances. Income Taxes Income taxes are for city and state income and franchise taxes, and for international income taxes accrued or paid by us and our subsidiaries. The increase in income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 is primarily attributable to our increased volume of U.K. investments, which contributed to higher U.K. income taxes for both years. Net Income Available to Common Stockholders The following summarizes our net income available to common stockholders (dollars in millions, except per share data): (1) All per share amounts are presented on a diluted per common share basis. The calculation to determine net income available to common stockholders includes provisions for impairment, gain from the sale of properties, and foreign currency gain and loss, which can vary from period to period based on timing and significantly impact net income available to common stockholders. The increase in net income available to common stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily related to the increase in the size of our portfolio due to the merger with VEREIT, which closed on November 1, 2021, gain on insurance proceeds from recoveries on property losses exceeding our carrying value, and $13.9 million of  merger and integration-related costs related to our merger with VEREIT. The increases were partially offset by reserves to rental revenue of $4.0 million (of which $1.7 million was related to straight-line rent receivables) for the year ended December 31, 2022. Net income available to common stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2021, was impacted by the following transactions: (i) a $97.2 million loss on extinguishment of debt, which primarily includes $46.5 million related to the January 2021 early redemption of the 3.250% notes due October 2022 recorded in the three months ended March 31, 2021 and $46.4 million related to the December 2021 early redemption of the 4.650% notes due August 2023 recorded in the three months ended December 31, 2021, (ii) $167.4 million of merger and integration-related costs related to our merger with VEREIT, and (iii) $14.7 million of reserves to rental revenue (of which $4.5 million was related to straight-line rent receivables). Net income available to common stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2020 was primarily impacted by the following transactions: (i) $147.2 million of provisions for impairment, (ii) $52.5 million in net reserves recorded as a reduction of rental revenue, (iii) a $9.8 million loss on extinguishment of debt due to the January 2020 early redemption of the 5.750% notes due January 2021, and (iv) a $3.5 million executive severance charge for our former CFO. 51 Adjusted Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization for Real Estate ("Adjusted EBITDA re" ) Nareit established an EBITDA metric for real estate companies (i.e., EBITDA for real estate, or EBITDA re ) it believed would provide investors with a consistent measure to help make investment decisions among REITs. Our definition of “Adjusted EBITDA re ” is generally consistent with the Nareit definition, other than our adjustments to remove foreign currency and derivative gain and loss, excluding gain and loss from the settlement of foreign currency forwards not designated as hedges (which is consistent with our previous calculations of "Adjusted EBITDA"). We define Adjusted EBITDA re , a non–GAAP financial measure, for the most recent quarter as earnings (net income) before (i) interest expense, including non-cash loss (gain) on swaps, (ii) income and franchise taxes, (iii) gain (loss) on extinguishment of debt, (iv) real estate depreciation and amortization, (v) provisions for impairment, (vi) merger and integration-related costs, (vii) gain on sales of real estate, (viii) foreign currency and derivative gain, net (as described in the Adjusted Funds from Operations section), (ix) gain on settlement of foreign currency forwards, and (x) equity in income of investment in unconsolidated entities. Our Adjusted EBITDA re may not be comparable to Adjusted EBITDA re reported by other companies or as defined by Nareit, and other companies may interpret or define Adjusted EBITDA re differently than we do. Management believes Adjusted EBITDA re to be a meaningful measure of a REIT’s performance because it provides a view of our operating performance, analyzes our ability to meet interest payment obligations before the effects of income tax, depreciation and amortization expense, provisions for impairment, gain on sales of real estate and other items, as defined above, that affect comparability, including the removal of non-recurring and non-cash items that industry observers believe are less relevant to evaluating the operating performance of a company. In addition, EBITDA re is widely followed by industry analysts, lenders, investors, rating agencies, and others as a means of evaluating the operational cash generating capacity of a company prior to servicing debt obligations. Management also believes the use of an annualized quarterly Adjusted EBITDA re metric, which we refer to as Annualized Adjusted EBITDA re , is meaningful because it represents our current earnings run rate for the period presented. Annualized Adjusted EBITDA re and Annualized Pro Forma Adjusted EBITDA re , as defined below, are also used to determine the vesting of performance share awards granted to executive officers. Annualized Adjusted EBITDA re should be considered along with, but not as an alternative to net income as a measure of our operating performance. We define Annualized Pro Forma Adjusted EBITDA re as Annualized Adjusted EBITDA re , subject to certain adjustments to incorporate Adjusted EBITDA re from properties we acquired or stabilized during the applicable quarter and to remove Adjusted EBITDA re from properties we disposed of during the applicable quarter, and includes transaction accounting adjustments in accordance with U.S. GAAP, giving pro forma effect to all transactions as if they occurred at the beginning of the applicable period. Our calculation includes all adjustments consistent with the requirements to present Adjusted EBITDA re on a pro forma basis in accordance with Article 11 of Regulation S-X. The Annualized Pro Forma Adjustments are consistent with the debt service coverage ratio calculated under financial covenants for our senior unsecured notes. We believe Annualized Pro Forma Adjusted EBITDA re is a useful non-GAAP supplemental measure, as it excludes properties that were no longer owned at the balance sheet date and includes the annualized rent from properties acquired during the quarter. Management also uses our ratios of net debt-to-Annualized Adjusted EBITDA re and net debt-to Annualized Pro Forma Adjusted EBITDA re as measures of leverage in assessing our financial performance, which is calculated as net debt (which we define as total debt per the consolidated balance sheets, excluding deferred financing costs and net premiums and discounts, but including our proportionate share on debt from unconsolidated entities, less cash and cash equivalents), divided by annualized quarterly Adjusted EBITDA re and annualized Pro Forma Adjusted EBITDA re , respectively. 52 The following is a reconciliation of net income (which we believe is the most comparable U.S. GAAP measure) to Adjusted EBITDA re and Annualized Pro Forma EBITDA re calculations for the periods indicated below (dollars in thousands): (1) We calculate Annualized Adjusted EBITDA re by multiplying the Quarterly Adjusted EBITDA re by four. (2) Net Debt is total debt per our consolidated balance sheets, excluding deferred financing costs and net premiums and discounts, but including our proportionate share on debt from unconsolidated entities, less cash and cash equivalents. As described above, the Annualized Pro Forma Adjustments, which includes transaction accounting adjustments in accordance with GAAP, consists of adjustments to incorporate the Adjusted EBITDA re from properties we acquired or stabilized during the applicable quarter and removes Adjusted EBITDA re from properties we disposed of during the applicable quarter, giving pro forma effect to all transactions as if they occurred at the beginning of the period, consistent with the requirements of Article 11 of Regulation S-X. The following table summarizes our Annualized Pro Forma Adjusted EBITDA re calculation for the periods indicated below: 53 FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS AVAILABLE TO COMMON STOCKHOLDERS AND NORMALIZED FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS AVAILABLE TO COMMON STOCKHOLDERS We define FFO, a non-GAAP measure, consistent with the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts' definition, as net income available to common stockholders, plus depreciation and amortization of real estate assets, plus provisions for impairments of depreciable real estate assets, and reduced by gain on property sales. We define Normalized FFO, a non-GAAP financial measure, as FFO excluding merger and integration-related costs related to our merger with VEREIT. We define diluted FFO and diluted normalized FFO as FFO and normalized FFO adjusted for dilutive noncontrolling interests. The following summarizes our FFO and Normalized FFO (dollars in millions, except per share data): (1) All per share amounts are presented on a diluted per common share basis. FFO and Normalized FFO for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 were impacted by the same transactions listed under "Net Income Available to Common Stockholders" on page 51, with the exception of provisions for impairment, which do not impact FFO and Normalized FFO. The following is a reconciliation of net income available to common stockholders (which we believe is the most comparable U.S. GAAP measure) to FFO and Normalized FFO. Also presented is information regarding distributions paid to common stockholders and the weighted average number of common shares used for the basic and diluted computation per share (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts): 54 (1) Includes an other than temporary impairment of $8.5 million recognized during the year ended December 31, 2022 on our investment in unconsolidated entities, all of which were sold as of December 31, 2022. We consider FFO and Normalized FFO to be appropriate supplemental measures of a REIT’s operating performance as they are based on a net income analysis of property portfolio performance that adds back items such as depreciation and impairments for FFO, and adds back merger and integration-related costs, for Normalized FFO. The historical accounting convention used for real estate assets requires straight-line depreciation of buildings and improvements, which implies that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. Since real estate values historically rise and fall with market conditions, presentations of operating results for a REIT, using historical accounting for depreciation, could be less informative. 55 ADJUSTED FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS AVAILABLE TO COMMON STOCKHOLDERS We define AFFO, a non-GAAP measure, as FFO adjusted for unique revenue and expense items, which we believe are not as pertinent to the measurement of our ongoing operating performance. We define diluted AFFO as AFFO adjusted for dilutive noncontrolling interests. The following summarizes our AFFO (dollars in millions, except per share data): (1) All per share amounts are presented on a diluted per common share basis. The increases in AFFO for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 were primarily attributable to the increase in the size of our portfolio, especially as it relates to the impact from our merger with VEREIT, which closed on November 1, 2021. These increases were partially offset by reserves recorded as a reduction of rental revenue of $4.0 million, $14.7 million and $52.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. We consider AFFO to be an appropriate supplemental measure of our performance. Most companies in our industry use a similar measurement, but they may use the term “CAD” (for Cash Available for Distribution), “FAD” (for Funds Available for Distribution) or other terms. Our AFFO calculations may not be comparable to AFFO, CAD or FAD reported by other companies, and other companies may interpret or define such terms differently than we do. The following is a reconciliation of net income available to common stockholders (which we believe is the most comparable U.S. GAAP measure) to Normalized FFO and AFFO. Also presented is information regarding distributions paid to common stockholders and the weighted average number of common shares used for the basic and diluted computation per share (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts): 56 (1) See reconciling items for Normalized FFO presented under “Funds from Operations Available to Common Stockholders (FFO) and Normalized Funds from Operations Available to Common Stockholders (Normalized FFO)." (2) The executive severance charge represents the incremental costs incurred upon our former CFO's departure in March 2020, consisting of $1.6 million of cash, $1.8 million of share-based compensation expense and $58,000 of professional fees. (3) Includes the amortization of premiums and discounts on notes payable and assumption of our mortgages payable, which are being amortized over the life of the applicable debt, and costs incurred and capitalized upon issuance and exchange of our notes payable, assumption of our mortgages payable and issuance of our term loans, which are also being amortized over the lives of the applicable debt. No costs associated with our credit facility agreements or annual fees paid to credit rating agencies have been included. (4) Represents the straight-line amortization of $72.0 million gain realized upon the termination of $500.0 million in notional interest rate swaps, over the term of the $750.0 million of 5.625% senior unsecured notes due October 13, 2032. (5) Includes adjustments allocable to noncontrolling interests, obligations related to financing lease liabilities, mark-to-market adjustments on investments and derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, foreign currency gain and loss as a result of intercompany debt and remeasurement transactions and straight-line payments from cross-currency swaps. 57 We believe the non-GAAP financial measure AFFO provides useful information to investors because it is a widely accepted industry measure of the operating performance of real estate companies that is used by industry analysts and investors who look at and compare those companies. In particular, AFFO provides an additional measure to compare the operating performance of different REITs without having to account for differing depreciation assumptions and other unique revenue and expense items which are not pertinent to measuring a particular company’s on-going operating performance. Therefore, we believe that AFFO is an appropriate supplemental performance metric, and that the most appropriate U.S. GAAP performance metric to which AFFO should be reconciled is net income available to common stockholders. Presentation of the information regarding FFO, Normalized FFO, and AFFO is intended to assist the reader in comparing the operating performance of different REITs, although it should be noted that not all REITs calculate FFO, Normalized FFO, and AFFO in the same way, so comparisons with other REITs may not be meaningful. Furthermore, FFO, Normalized FFO, and AFFO are not necessarily indicative of cash flow available to fund cash needs and should not be considered as alternatives to net income as an indication of our performance. FFO, Normalized FFO, and AFFO should not be considered as alternatives to reviewing our cash flows from operating, investing, and financing activities. In addition, FFO, Normalized FFO, and AFFO should not be considered as measures of liquidity, our ability to make cash distributions, or our ability to pay interest payments. IMPACT OF INFLATION Leases generally provide for limited increases in rent as a result of fixed increases, increases in the consumer price index, or retail price index in the case of certain leases in the U.K. (typically subject to ceilings), or increases in the clients’ sales volumes. We expect that inflation will cause these lease provisions to result in rent increases over time. During times when inflation is greater than increases in rent, as provided for in the leases, rent increases may not keep up with the rate of inflation and other costs (including increases in employment and other fees and expenses). Moreover, our use of net lease agreements tends to reduce our exposure to rising property expenses due to inflation because the client is responsible for property expenses. Even though net leases reduce our exposure to rising property expenses due to inflation, substantial inflationary pressures and increased costs may have an adverse impact on our clients if increases in their operating expenses exceed increases in revenue, which may adversely affect our clients' ability to pay rent.  Additionally, inflationary periods may cause us to experience increased costs of financing, make it difficult to refinance debt at attractive rates or at all, and may adversely affect the properties we can acquire if the cost of financing an acquisition is in excess of our anticipated earnings from such property, thereby limiting the properties that can be acquired. IMPACT OF RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS For information on the impact of new accounting standards on our business, see note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Procedures and New Accounting Standards , to our Consolidated Financial Statements.