********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

This “Risk Factors” section contains references to our “capital stock” and to our “stockholders.” Unless expressly stated otherwise, the references to our “capital stock” represent our common stock and any class or series of  preferred stock which may be outstanding from time to time, while the references to our “stockholders” represent holders of our common stock and any class or series of outstanding preferred stock. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry The COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted our operations and is expected to continue to have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The COVID-19 pandemic, including the continued spread of new variants, has had, and other pandemics in the future could have, repercussions across global economies and financial markets. The COVID-19 pandemic and the measures taken to limit its spread have adversely impacted regional, national and global economic activity and have contributed to significant volatility and negative pressure in financial markets. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has rapidly evolved and, as cases and variants of COVID-19 have continued to increase and be identified, many countries, including the United States, the United Kingdom, and Spain, have reacted by, among other things, instituting quarantines and restricting travel. Many national, state and local governments, including in areas where we own properties, have also reacted by instituting quarantines, restrictions on travel, shelter-in-place orders, vaccine requirements, restrictions on types of business that may continue to operate, school closures, vaccine and testing requirements, limitations on attendance at events or other gatherings, and social distancing requirements, and additional national, state and local governments may implement similar restrictions. In that regard, surges in COVID-19 cases have led many state and local governments to increase the scope and severity of some of these restrictions and to institute new restrictions. As a result, the COVID-19 pandemic and the measures taken to limit its spread have negatively impacted the global, national and regional economies generally and many industries, directly or indirectly, and those impacts may continue and may increase in severity, including potentially triggering prolonged periods of negative or limited economic growth. Factors that have contributed or may contribute to the adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the measures taken to limit its spread on the business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity of us and our clients include, without limitation, the following: • A complete or partial closure of, or other operational limitations or issues at, properties operated by our clients resulting from government action (including travel bans, border closings, business closures, quarantine, vaccine and testing requirements, shelter-in-place or similar orders requiring that people remain in their homes) or client action; • Reduced economic activity, customer traffic, consumer confidence or discretionary spending, the deterioration in our or our clients’ ability to operate in affected areas and any delays in the supply of products or services to our clients may impact certain of our clients’ businesses, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity and may cause certain of our clients to be unable to meet their obligations to us in full, or at all, and to seek, whether through negotiation, restructuring or bankruptcy, reductions or deferrals in their rent payments and other obligations to us or early termination of their leases; • We may experience difficulties, some of which may be related to supply chain disruptions, in leasing, selling or redeveloping vacant properties or renewing expiring or terminated leases on terms we consider acceptable, or at all; • We may experience difficulty accessing the bank lending, capital markets and other financial markets on attractive terms, or at all, and a severe disruption or instability in the national or global financial markets or deterioration in credit and financing conditions may adversely affect our cost of capital, our access to capital to grow our business (including through acquisitions, development opportunities and other strategic transactions) and to fund our business operations, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock, our ability to pay the principal of and interest on our indebtedness, and our other liabilities on a timely basis, and our clients’ ability to fund their business operations and meet their obligations to us and others; • The financial impact of the COVID-19 pandemic could negatively impact our credit ratings, the interest rates on our borrowings, and our future compliance with financial covenants under our credit facility and other debt instruments, which could result in a default and potentially an acceleration of indebtedness, any of which could -26- negatively impact our ability to make additional borrowings under our revolving credit facility, to sell commercial paper notes under our commercial paper program or incur other indebtedness, and pay dividends on our common stock and to pay the principal of and interest on our indebtedness, and our other obligations when due; • The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the market value of our properties has led to impairment charges and may require that we incur further impairment charges, asset write-downs or similar charges; • The impact on the ability of our employees, including members of our management team or board of directors, to fulfill their duties to us as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, either as a result of measures taken to limit its spread or as a result of infection; and • A general decline in business activity and demand for real estate transactions could adversely affect our ability to grow our portfolio of properties. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact our operations and those of our clients will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence, including the scope, severity and duration of the pandemic, the actions taken to contain the pandemic or limit its impact, and the direct and indirect economic effects of the pandemic and containment measures. To date, the COVID-19 pandemic and the measures taken to limit its spread have adversely impacted and may continue to adversely impact, among other things, the ability of a number of our clients’ to generate adequate, or in certain cases, any revenue from their businesses, the ability or willingness of many of our clients to pay rent in full, or at all, or on a timely basis, and our ability to collect rent from our clients. It may also adversely impact our ability to enforce remedies for the failure to pay rent, our occupancy levels, our ability to acquire properties or complete construction projects, and may otherwise negatively affect our business. Most of our clients operate retail businesses, many of which appear to have been disproportionately impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and the measures taken to mitigate its spread. These adverse impacts have, at times, reduced the amount of rent we have been able to collect from our clients in those industries and may further decrease the likelihood of us collecting such rent in the future. In addition, if any of these or other clients declare bankruptcy or enter into similar corporate restructuring arrangements, they may seek to reject or renegotiate our existing leases, which could adversely affect our ability to collect rent that is owed or to collect future rent on those properties at anticipated rates, or at all, or to re-lease those properties on favorable terms. In addition, most of our clients operate retail businesses that depend on customer traffic. As a result, conditions that lead to a decline in customer traffic (including quarantine, shelter-in-place or similar orders requiring that people remain in their homes or orders requiring business closures or restricting business operations) have had and so long as those conditions continue to exist will continue to have an adverse effect on the business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity of a number of our clients, and their willingness or ability to pay rent, to renew expiring leases or to enter into new leases on terms favorable to us, or at all. In addition to the near-term effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on our clients and their businesses, we are unable to predict at this time the broader long-term impacts on consumer behavior in regard to brick-and-mortar retail and service-based businesses. To the extent certain adverse factors, including but not limited to, continued patterns of consumer savings and unemployment, persist, certain discretionary businesses could have prolonged negative consequences as a result of shifts in long-term consumer behavior. As a result of the foregoing, we cannot predict the number of our clients that will not pay rent in the future, nor can we predict whether our clients who have paid rent in the past will continue to do so or whether our clients who have deferred rent will pay such rent in the future. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues, our clients may cease to pay their rent obligations to us in full or at all, and our clients may elect not to renew their leases, seek to terminate their leases, seek relief from their leases (including through negotiation, restructuring or bankruptcy), or decline to renew expiring leases or enter into new leases, all of which may adversely impact our rental revenue and occupancy rates, generate additional expenses, result in impairment charges or other write-downs of assets, and adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, as we believe to be the case with many retail landlords, we have received and may continue to receive short-term rent relief requests, most often in the form of rent deferral requests, or requests for further discussion from our clients. Collections and rent relief requests to-date may not be indicative of collections or requests in any future period. Likewise, the deterioration of global economic conditions as a result of the pandemic may ultimately lead to a further decrease in occupancy levels and rental rates across our portfolio as our clients reduce or defer their spending, institute restructuring plans or file for bankruptcy. Some of our major clients have experienced temporary closures of some or all of their properties or have substantially altered or reduced their operations in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and additional clients may do so in the future. In addition, the measures taken to prevent the spread of -27- COVID-19 (including quarantine, shelter-in-place or similar orders requiring that people remain in their homes) have led and may lead to further closures, or other operational issues or changes at our properties, or delays in acquisition activities, construction projects, and other corporate actions, all of which may materially adversely impact our operations. In addition, in light of the uncertain and rapidly evolving situation relating to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have taken certain precautionary measures within our organization intended to help reduce the risk of the virus to our employees, our clients, and the communities in which we operate, including instituting a work-from-home policy for our employees and limiting non-essential travel and in-person attendance at industry events. While we anticipate that these measures are temporary, we cannot predict the specific duration for which these precautionary measures will stay in effect, and we may elect to take additional measures as the information available to us continues to develop. These actions, and any future actions we may take in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, could further negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. For the foregoing reasons, we expect that the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and related containment measures, including the impact on regional, national and global economies, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and, given unpredictability of the scope, severity and duration of the pandemic, such impacts may be material. To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic and related containment measures continue to adversely affect regional, national and global economic conditions and financial markets, as well as the business, results of operations, financial conditions and liquidity of us and our clients, they may also have the effect of heightening many of the risks described elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section, including the risks resulting from our significant indebtedness; our need to generate sufficient cash flows to service our indebtedness, to pay dividends on our common stock, to pay the principal of and interest on our indebtedness, and provide for our other cash needs; our ongoing need for external financing; our ability to access borrowings under our credit facility and to sell notes under our commercial paper program; our ability to comply with the covenants contained in the agreements that govern our indebtedness; our ability to integrate VEREIT’s business or realize the anticipated synergies and related benefits of the merger; our dependency on key personnel; and the impact of negative market conditions or adverse events on our clients. In addition, in light of the COVID-19 pandemic and the measures taken to limit its spread, our historical information regarding our business, properties, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may not be representative of the future results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or other financial or operating results of us, our properties or our business. In order to grow we need to continue to acquire investment properties.  The acquisition of investment properties may be subject to competitive pressures. We face competition in the acquisition and operation of our properties. We expect competition from: • Businesses; • Individuals; • Fiduciary accounts and plans; and • Other entities engaged in real estate investment and financing. Some of these competitors are larger than we are and have greater financial resources. This competition may result in a higher cost for properties we wish to purchase. Negative market conditions or adverse events affecting our existing or potential clients, or the industries in which they operate, could have an adverse impact on our ability to attract new clients, re-lease space, collect rent or renew leases, which could adversely affect our cash flow from operations and inhibit growth. Cash flow from operations depends in part on our ability to lease space to our clients on economically favorable terms and to collect rent from our clients on a timely basis. We could be adversely affected by various facts and events over which we have limited or no control, such as: • Lack of demand in areas where our properties are located; • Inability to retain existing clients and attract new clients; • Oversupply of space and changes in market rental rates; • Declines in our clients’ creditworthiness and ability to pay rent, which may be affected by their operations, economic downturns and competition within their industries from other operators; -28- • Defaults by and bankruptcies of clients, failure of clients to pay rent on a timely basis, or failure of our clients to comply with their contractual obligations; • Changes in laws, rules or regulations that negatively impact clients or our properties; • The current COVID-19 pandemic (see “Risk Factors — The COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted our operations and is expected to continue to have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity” above) or other pandemics or outbreaks of illness, disease or virus that affect countries or regions in which our clients and their parent companies operate or in which our properties or corporate headquarters are located; • Economic or physical decline of the areas where the properties are located; and • Deterioration of physical condition of our properties. At any time, any of our clients may experience a downturn in its business that may weaken its operating results or overall financial condition. As a result, a client may delay lease commencement, fail to make rental payments when due, decline to extend a lease upon its expiration, become insolvent or declare bankruptcy. Any client bankruptcy or insolvency, leasing delay or failure to make rental payments when due could result in the termination of our client’s lease and material losses to us. If our clients do not renew their leases as they expire, we may not be able to rent or sell the properties. Furthermore, leases that are renewed, and some new leases for properties that are re-leased, may have terms that are less economically favorable than expiring lease terms, or may require us to incur significant costs, such as renovations, improvements on behalf of the client or lease transaction costs. Negative market conditions may cause us to sell vacant properties for less than their carrying value, which could result in impairments. Any of these events could adversely affect our cash flow from operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and service our indebtedness. A significant portion of the costs of owning property, such as real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance, are not necessarily reduced when circumstances cause a decrease in rental revenue from the properties. In a weakened financial condition, our clients may not be able to pay these costs of ownership and we may be unable to recover these operating expenses from them. Further, the occurrence of a client bankruptcy or insolvency could diminish the income we receive from our client’s lease or leases. The occurrence of a client bankruptcy or insolvency could diminish the income we receive from our client’s lease or leases. In addition, a bankruptcy court might authorize our client to terminate its leases with us. If that happens, our claim against the bankrupt client for unpaid future rent would be subject to statutory limitations that most likely would result in rent payments that would be substantially less than the remaining rent we are owed under the leases (although it is possible that we may not receive any unpaid future rent under terminated leases) or we may elect not to pursue claims against a client for terminated leases. In addition, any claim we have for unpaid past rent, if any, may not be paid in full, or at all. Moreover, in the case of a client’s leases that are not terminated as the result of its bankruptcy, we may be required or elect to reduce the rent payable under those leases or provide other concessions, reducing amounts we receive under those leases. As a result, client bankruptcies may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Any of these events could adversely affect our cash flow from operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders and service our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2021 , 164 of our properties were available for lease or sale. As of December 31, 2021, no single client or group of our clients in the same industry accounted for more than 10% of our total portfolio annualized contractual rent. Downturns in any of our industries could adversely affect our clients, which in turn could also have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and our ability to pay the principal of and interest on our debt securities and other indebtedness and to make distributions on our common stock, and any outstanding preferred stock. In addition, some properties are leased to clients that may have limited financial and other resources, and therefore, they are more likely to be adversely affected by a downturn in their respective businesses, including any downturns that have resulted or may result from the COVID-19 pandemic, or in the regional, national, or international economy. As a property owner, we may be subject to unknown environmental liabilities. Investments in real property can create a potential for environmental liability. An owner of property can face liability for environmental contamination created by the presence or discharge of hazardous substances on the property. We can face such liability regardless of: • Our knowledge of the contamination; • The timing of the contamination; -29- • The cause of the contamination; or • The party responsible for the contamination of the property. There may be environmental conditions associated with our properties of which we are unaware. In that regard, a number of our properties are leased to operators of convenience stores that sell petroleum-based fuels, as well as to operators of oil change and tune-up facilities and operators that use chemicals and other waste products. These facilities, and some other of our properties, use, or may have used in the past, underground lifts or underground tanks for the storage of petroleum-based or waste products, which could create a potential for the release of hazardous substances. Certain of our other properties, particularly those leased for industrial-type purposes, may also involve operations or activities that could give rise to environmental liabilities. The presence of hazardous substances on a property may adversely affect our client's ability to continue to operate that property or our ability to lease or sell that property and we may incur substantial remediation costs or third party liability claims. Although our leases generally require our clients to operate in compliance with all applicable federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, and to indemnify us against any environmental liabilities arising from the clients’ activities on the properties, we could nevertheless be subject to liability, including strict liability, by virtue of our ownership interest. There also can be no assurance that our clients could or would satisfy their indemnification obligations under their leases. The discovery of environmental liabilities attached to our properties could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, our financial condition, or our ability to make distributions to stockholders and to pay the principal of and interest on our debt securities and other indebtedness. In addition, several of our properties were built during the period when asbestos was commonly used in building construction and we may acquire other buildings that contain asbestos in the future. Environmental laws govern the presence, maintenance, and removal of asbestos-containing materials, or ACMs, and require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, that they adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and that they undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement in the event that asbestos is disturbed during renovation or demolition of a building. These laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators for failure to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos fibers. While we have not been notified by any governmental authority, and are not otherwise aware, of any material noncompliance, liability or claim relating to environmental contamination, if environmental contamination should exist on any of our properties, we could be subject to liability, including strict liability, by virtue of our ownership interest. In addition, while we maintain environmental insurance policies, it is possible that our insurance could be insufficient to address any particular environmental situation and/or that, in the future, we could be unable to obtain insurance for environmental matters at a reasonable cost, or at all. Our clients are generally responsible for, and indemnify us against, liabilities for environmental matters that arise during the lease terms as a result of clients’ activities on the properties. For properties that have underground storage tanks, in addition to providing an indemnity in our favor, the clients generally are required to meet applicable state financial assurance obligations, including maintaining certain minimum net worth requirements, obtaining environmental insurance, or relying upon the state trust funds where available in the states where these properties are located to reimburse responsible parties for costs of environmental remediation. However, it is possible that one or more of our clients could fail to have sufficient funds to cover any such indemnification or to meet applicable state financial assurance obligations, and thus we may still be obligated to pay for any such environmental liabilities. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, it could adversely impact us, and the amount of dividends we are able to pay would decrease, which could adversely affect the market price of our capital stock and could adversely affect the value of our debt securities. We believe that, commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1994, we have been organized and have operated, and we intend to continue to operate, so as to qualify as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Code. However, we cannot make any assurances that we have been organized or have operated in a manner that has satisfied the requirements for qualification as a REIT, or that we will continue to be organized or operate in a manner that will allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT. Qualification as a REIT involves the satisfaction of numerous requirements under highly technical and complex Code provisions, for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, as well as the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. -30- For example, in order to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income in each year must be derived from qualifying sources, and we must pay distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our taxable income (excluding net capital gains). If we fail to satisfy any of the requirements for qualification as a REIT, we may be subject to certain penalty taxes or, in some circumstances, we may fail to qualify as a REIT. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year: • We would be required to pay regular United States, or U.S., federal corporate income tax on our taxable income; • We would not be allowed a deduction for amounts distributed to our stockholders in computing our taxable income; • We could be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification is lost; • We would no longer be required to make distributions to stockholders; and • This treatment would substantially reduce amounts available for investment or distribution to stockholders because of the additional tax liability for the years involved, which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our capital stock and the value of our debt securities. Even if we qualify for and maintain our REIT status, we may be subject to certain federal, state, local and foreign taxes on our income and property. For example, if we have net income from a prohibited transaction, that income will be subject to a 100% tax. In addition, our taxable REIT subsidiaries, including Crest, are subject to federal,  state and, in some cases, foreign taxes at the applicable tax rates on their income and property. Any failure to comply with legal and regulatory tax obligations could adversely affect our ability to conduct business and could adversely affect the market price of our capital stock and the value of our debt securities. Legislative or other actions affecting REITs could have a negative effect on us or our investors. The rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the Internal Revenue Services, or the IRS, and the U.S. Department of the Treasury, or the Treasury. Changes to the tax laws, with or without retroactive application, could adversely affect us or our investors, including holders of our common stock or debt securities. We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect us or our investors. New legislation, Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify as a REIT, the federal income tax consequences of such qualification, or the federal income tax consequences of an investment in us. Also, the law relating to the tax treatment of other entities, or an investment in other entities, could change, making an investment in such other entities more attractive relative to an investment in a REIT. The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or TCJA, has significantly changed the U.S. federal income taxation of U.S. businesses and their owners, including REITs and their stockholders. We are continuing to assess the potential impact of TCJA on us as related regulations are proposed and finalized. Although a number of regulations related to TCJA became final after 2017, there are still a number of proposed regulations open for comment, and further changes may be made in light of changes in the U.S. government. The legislation is still unclear in some respects and could be subject to further potential amendments and technical corrections, as well as interpretations and implementing regulations by the Treasury and IRS, any of which could lessen or increase the impact of the legislation. In addition, state and local tax jurisdictions, which often use federal taxable income as a starting point for computing state and local tax liabilities, are continuing to evaluate the legislation to determine their respective levels of conformity to the new law. While some of the changes made by the tax legislation may adversely affect us in one or more reporting periods and prospectively, other changes may be beneficial on a going forward basis. We continue to work with our tax advisors and auditors to determine the full impact that the tax legislation as a whole will have on us. Distribution requirements imposed by law limit our flexibility. To maintain our status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we generally are required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income, excluding net capital gains, each year. We also are subject to tax at regular corporate rates to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our taxable income (including net capital gains) each year. In addition, we are subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax to the extent that we fail to distribute during any calendar year at least the sum of 85% of our ordinary income for that calendar year, 95% of our capital gain net income for the calendar year, and any amount of that income that was not distributed in prior years. -31- We intend to continue to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the distribution requirements of the Code as well as to reduce our exposure to federal income taxes and the nondeductible excise tax. Differences in timing between the receipt of income and the payment of expenses to arrive at taxable income, along with the effect of required debt amortization payments, could require us to borrow funds to meet the distribution requirements that are necessary to achieve the tax benefits associated with qualifying as a REIT. Future issuances of equity securities could dilute the interest of holders of our common stock. Our future growth will depend, in large part, upon our ability to raise additional capital. If we were to raise additional capital through the issuance of equity securities, we could dilute the interests of holders of our common stock. The interests of our common stockholders could also be diluted by the issuance of shares of common stock pursuant to stock incentive plans. Likewise, our Board of Directors is authorized to cause us to issue preferred stock of any class or series (with dividend, voting and other rights as determined by our Board of Directors). Accordingly, our Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of preferred stock with voting, dividend and other similar rights that could dilute, or otherwise adversely affect, the interest of holders of our common stock. We may acquire properties or portfolios of properties through tax deferred contribution transactions, which could result in stockholder dilution and limit our ability to sell or refinance such assets. We have in the past and may in the future acquire properties or portfolios of properties through tax deferred contribution transactions in exchange for partnership units in an operating partnership, which could result in stockholder dilution through the issuance of operating partnership units that, under certain circumstances, may be exchanged for shares of our common stock. This acquisition structure may have the effect of, among other things, reducing the amount of tax depreciation we could deduct over the tax life of the acquired properties, and may require that we agree to restrictions on our ability to dispose of, or refinance the debt on, the acquired properties in order to protect the contributors’ ability to defer recognition of taxable gain. Similarly, we may be required to incur or maintain debt we would otherwise not incur so we can allocate the debt to the contributors to maintain their tax bases. These restrictions could limit our ability to sell or refinance an asset at a time, or on terms, that would be favorable absent such restrictions. We are subject to risks associated with debt and preferred stock financing. We intend to incur additional indebtedness in the future, including borrowings under our $3.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility and our $1.0 billion commercial paper program. The credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility also governs our $250.0 million unsecured term loan facility due March 2024. Our revolving credit facility grants us the option, subject to obtaining lender commitments and other customary conditions, to expand the borrowing limits thereunder to up to $4.0 billion. In addition, we have an unsecured commercial paper note program under which we may offer and sell up to $1.0 billion of commercial paper at any time. We use our $3.0 billion revolving credit facility as a liquidity backstop for the repayment of notes issued under the commercial paper program.  Specifically, we maintain unused borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility equal to the aggregate principal amount of borrowings outstanding under our commercial paper program from time to time. We also may in the future enter into amendments and restatements of our current revolving credit facility and term loan facility, or enter into new revolving credit facilities or term loan facilities, and any such amended, restated or replacement revolving credit facilities or term loan facilities may increase the amounts we are entitled to borrow, subject to customary conditions, compared to our current revolving credit facility and term loan facility, or we may incur other indebtedness. We may also in the future increase the size of our commercial paper program. In addition, as a result of the merger, all outstanding secured indebtedness of VEREIT and its subsidiaries and all outstanding liabilities and other indebtedness of VEREIT and its subsidiaries (including $4.65 billion of additional senior unsecured notes that were originally issued by VEREIT OP, substantially all of which were subsequently exchanged for senior unsecured notes issued by us) became indebtedness and liabilities of ours or our subsidiaries, as the case may be, which has substantially increased the total secured indebtedness of us and our subsidiaries and the total liabilities and other indebtedness of our subsidiaries. To the extent that new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face would increase. As a result, we are and will be subject to risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow could be insufficient to make required payments on our debt or to pay dividends on our common stock. We also face variable interest rate risk as the interest rates on our revolving credit facility and term loan are variable and could therefore increase over time. In addition, commercial paper borrowings are short-term obligations and the interest rate on newly issued commercial paper varies according to market conditions at the time of issuance. We also face the risk that we may be unable to refinance or repay our debt as it comes due. Given past disruptions in the financial markets and ongoing global financial uncertainties, including the impact of COVID-19 and of the United -32- Kingdom’s withdrawal from the European Union (referred to as Brexit), we also face the risk that one or more of the participants in our revolving credit facility may not be able to lend us money. In addition, our revolving credit facility, our term loan facility and our mortgage loan documents contain provisions that could limit or, in certain cases, prohibit the payment of dividends and other distributions to holders of our common stock and any outstanding preferred stock. In particular, our revolving credit facility and our $250.0 million term loan facility, all of which are governed by the same credit agreement, provide that, if an event of default (as defined in the credit agreement) exists, we may not pay any dividends or make other distributions on (except distributions payable in shares of a given class of our stock to the stockholders of that class), or repurchase or redeem, among other things, any shares of our common stock or any outstanding preferred stock, during any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters in an aggregate amount in excess of the greater of: • The sum of (a) 95% of our adjusted funds from operations (as defined in the credit agreement) for that period plus (b) the aggregate amount of cash distributions made to holders of our outstanding preferred stock, if any, for that period, and • The minimum amount of cash distributions required to be made to our stockholders in order to maintain our status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and to avoid the payment of any income or excise taxes that would otherwise be imposed under specified sections of the Code on income we do not distribute to our stockholders, except that we may repurchase or redeem shares of our outstanding preferred stock, if any, with net proceeds from the issuance of shares of our common stock or preferred stock. The credit agreement further provides that, in the event of a failure to pay principal, interest or any other amount payable thereunder when due or upon the occurrence of certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization with respect to us or with respect to one or more of our subsidiaries that in the aggregate meet a significance test set forth in the credit agreement, we and our subsidiaries (other than our wholly-owned subsidiaries) may not pay any dividends or make other distributions on (except for (a) distributions payable in shares of a given class of our stock to the stockholders of that class and (b) dividends and distributions described in the second bullet point above), or repurchase or redeem, among other things, any shares of our common stock or preferred stock. If any such event of default under the credit agreement were to occur, it would likely have a material adverse effect on the market price of our outstanding common stock and any outstanding preferred stock and on the market value of our debt securities could limit the amount of dividends or other distributions payable to holders of our common stock and any outstanding preferred stock or the amount of interest and principal we are able to pay on our indebtedness, or prevent us from paying those dividends, other distributions, interest or principal altogether, and may adversely affect our ability to qualify, or prevent us from qualifying, as a REIT. Our indebtedness could also have other important consequences to holders of our common stock, any outstanding preferred stock, and our debt securities, including: • Increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • Limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements; • Requiring the use of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations for the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures, and general corporate requirements; • Limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and • Putting us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors with less indebtedness. If we default under a credit facility, loan agreement or other debt instrument, the lenders will generally have the right to demand immediate repayment of the principal and interest on all of their loans and, in the case of secured indebtedness, to exercise their rights to seize and sell the collateral. Moreover, a default under a single loan or debt instrument may trigger cross-default or cross- acceleration provisions in other indebtedness and debt instruments, giving the holders of such other indebtedness and debt instruments similar rights to demand immediate repayment and to seize and sell any collateral. Real estate ownership is subject to particular conditions that may have a negative impact on our revenue. We are subject to all of the inherent risks associated with the ownership of real estate. In particular, we face the risk that rental revenue from our properties may be insufficient to cover all corporate operating expenses, debt service payments on indebtedness we incur, and distributions on our capital stock. Additional real estate ownership risks include: -33- • Adverse changes in general or local economic conditions; • Changes in supply of, or demand for, similar or competing properties; • Changes in interest rates and operating expenses; • Competition for our clients; • Changes in market rents; • Inability to lease properties upon termination of existing leases; • Renewal of leases at lower rental rates; • Inability to collect rental revenue from our clients due to financial hardship, including bankruptcy; • Changes in tax, real estate, zoning and environmental laws that may have an adverse impact upon the value of real estate; • Uninsured property liability; • Property damage or casualty losses; • Unexpected expenditures for capital improvements, including requirements to bring properties into compliance with applicable federal, state and local laws; • The need to periodically renovate and repair our properties; • Risks assumed as manager for pre-leased development or redevelopment projects; • Physical or weather-related damage to properties; • The potential risk of functional obsolescence of properties over time; • Acts of terrorism and war; • The impacts of climate change; and • Acts of God and other factors beyond the control of our management. Real estate property investments are illiquid. We may not be able to dispose of properties when desired or on favorable terms. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our properties in response to changes in economic and other conditions will be limited. No assurances can be given that we will recognize full value, at a price and at terms that are acceptable to us, for any property that we are required to sell for liquidity reasons. Our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our acquisition of additional properties may have a significant effect on our business, liquidity, financial position and/or results of operations. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to manage our acquisitions and expansion opportunities. We are regularly engaged in the process of identifying, analyzing, underwriting, and negotiating possible acquisition transactions. We cannot provide any assurances that we will be successful in consummating future acquisitions on favorable terms or that we will realize expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements, synergies or other benefits. Our inability to consummate one or more acquisitions on such terms, our failure to adequately underwrite and identify risks and obligations when acquiring properties, or our failure to realize the intended benefits from one or more acquisitions, could have a significant adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial position and/or results of operations, including as a result of our incurrence of additional indebtedness and related interest expense and our assumption of unforeseen contingent liabilities in connection with completed acquisitions. Furthermore, we have made and may continue to make selected acquisitions of properties that fall outside our historical focus on freestanding, single-client, net lease retail locations in the United States. We may be exposed to a variety of new risks by expanding into new property types and/or new jurisdictions outside the United States, including in the United Kingdom and Spain, and properties leased to our clients engaged in non-retail businesses. These risks may include limited experience in managing certain types of new properties, new types of real estate locations and lease structures, and the laws and culture of non-United States jurisdictions. We are subject to additional risks from our international investments. We have acquired and may continue to acquire properties outside of the United States.  These investments may  expose us to a variety of risks that are different from and in addition to those commonly found in the United States.  Our international investments are subject to additional risks, including: • The laws, rules and regulations applicable in such jurisdictions outside of the United States, including those related to property ownership by foreign entities; • Complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; • Fluctuations in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar, and exchange controls; -34- • As we may not have or have only a limited number of properties within a jurisdiction, our experience in that market and with local business may be limited; • Cultural factors and business practices that differ from our United States standards and practices including as they relate to rent adjustments, ground leases and property ownership requirements and limitations; • Challenges in establishing effective controls and procedures to regulate operations in different regions and to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable regulations, such as applicable laws related to corrupt practices, employment, licensing, construction, climate change or environmental compliance; • Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tax, tariffs, trade barriers and other laws within jurisdictions outside the United States or between the United States and such jurisdictions; • Potentially adverse tax consequences with respect to our properties; • The impact of regional or country-specific business cycles and economic instability, including deteriorations in political relations with the United States, instability in, or further withdrawals from, the European Union or other international trade alliances or agreements; and • Political instability, uncertainty over property rights, civil unrest, drug trafficking, political activism or the continuation or escalation of terrorist or gang activities. If we are unable to adequately address these risks, they could have a significant adverse effect on our operations. We may engage in development or expansion projects or invest in new assets, which would subject us to additional risks that could negatively impact our operations. We may engage in development or other expansion projects, which could require us to raise additional capital and oversee state and local permitting. A decision by any governmental agency not to issue a required permit or substantial delays in the permitting process could prevent us from pursuing the development or expansion project. Additionally, any such new development or expansion project may not operate at designed capacity or may cost more to operate than we expect. The inability to successfully complete development or expansion projects or to complete them on a timely basis could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In the future, we may invest in new or different assets or enter into new transaction structures that may or may not be closely related to our current business. These new assets and transaction structures may have new, different or increased risks than what we are currently exposed to in our business and we may not be able to manage these risks successfully. Additionally, when investing in such new assets or transaction structures, we will be exposed to the risk that those assets or structures, or the income generated thereby, will affect our ability to meet the requirements to maintain our REIT status. If we are not able to successfully manage the risks associated with such new assets, it could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. An uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the policy limits on our properties could subject us to lost capital or revenue on those properties. Under the terms and conditions of the leases currently in force on our properties, clients generally are required to indemnify and hold us harmless from liabilities resulting from injury to persons, air, water, land or property, due to activities conducted on the properties, except for claims arising from the negligence or intentional misconduct of us or our agents. Additionally, clients are generally required, at the client’s expense, to obtain and keep in full force during the term of the lease, liability and property damage insurance policies. The insurance policies our clients are required to maintain for property damage are generally in amounts not less than the full replacement cost of the improvements less slab, foundations, supports and other customarily excluded improvements. Our clients are generally required to maintain general liability coverage depending on the client and the industry in which the client operates. In addition to the indemnities and required insurance policies identified above, many of our properties are also covered by flood and earthquake insurance policies (subject to substantial deductibles) obtained and paid for by the clients as part of their risk management programs. Additionally, we have obtained blanket liability, flood and earthquake (subject to substantial deductibles) and property damage insurance policies to protect us and our properties against loss should the indemnities and insurance policies provided by the clients fail to restore the properties to their condition prior to a loss. We do not carry insurance for certain losses and certain types of losses may be either uninsurable or not economically insurable. However, should a loss occur that is uninsured or in an amount exceeding the combined aggregate limits for the policies noted above, or in the event of a loss that is subject to a substantial deductible under an insurance policy, we could lose all or part of our capital invested in, and anticipated revenue from, one or more of the properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition and on our ability to pay the principal of and interest on our debt securities and other indebtedness and to make distributions to our stockholders. We also face the risk that our insurance carriers -35- may not be able to provide payment under any potential claims that might arise under the terms of our insurance policies, and we may not have the ability to purchase insurance policies we desire. In addition, although we obtain title insurance policies on our properties to help protect us and our properties against title defects (such as adverse claims of ownership, liens or other encumbrances), there may be certain title defects that our title insurance will not cover. If a material title defect related to any of our properties is not adequately covered by a title insurance policy, we could lose some or all of our capital invested in and our anticipated profits from such property, cause a financial misstatement or damage our reputation. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and fire, safety, and other regulations may require us to make unintended expenditures that could adversely impact our results of operations. Our properties are generally required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or the ADA. The ADA has separate compliance requirements for “public accommodations” and “commercial facilities,” but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. Compliance with the ADA requirements could require removal of access barriers and non-compliance could result in imposition of fines by the U.S. government or an award of damages to private litigants. The retailers to whom we lease properties are obligated by law to comply with the ADA provisions, and we believe that these retailers may be generally obligated to cover costs associated with compliance. If required changes involve greater expenditures than anticipated, or if the changes must be made on a more accelerated basis than anticipated, the ability of these retailers to cover costs could be adversely affected and we could be required to expend our own funds to comply with the provisions of the ADA, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition and our ability to pay the principal of and interest on our debt securities and other indebtedness and to make distributions to our stockholders. In addition, we are required to operate our properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies and become applicable to our properties. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with those requirements and these expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition and our ability to pay the principal of and interest on our debt securities and other indebtedness and to make distributions to our stockholders. Property taxes may increase without notice. The real property taxes on our properties and any other properties that we develop or acquire in the future may increase as property tax rates change and as those properties are assessed or reassessed by tax authorities. While the majority of our leases are under a net lease structure, some or all of such property taxes may not be collectible from our clients. Our business is subject to risks associated with climate change and our sustainability strategies. The effects of climate change, and a resulting shift to a lower carbon economy, could present several climate-related risks and opportunities for our business. Physical risks from climate change could result in both chronic and acute perils including, but not limited to, extreme weather, changes in precipitation and temperature, and rising sea levels, all of which may result in physical damage to, or a decrease in demand for, our properties located in the areas affected by these conditions. Should the impact of climate change be severe or occur for lengthy periods of time, connectivity, labor and supply chains could impact business continuity for ourselves and our clients. This could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we seek to promote effective energy efficiency and other sustainability strategies and compliance with federal, state and international laws and regulations related to climate change, both internally and with our clients. Our sustainability strategies and efforts to comply with changes in federal, state and international laws and regulations on climate change could result in significant capital expenditures to improve our existing properties or properties we may acquire. Any changes to such laws and regulations could also result in increased operating costs or capital expenditures at our properties. If we are unable to comply with laws and regulations on climate change or implement effective sustainability strategies, our reputation among our clients and investors may be damaged and we may incur fines and/or penalties. Moreover, there can be no assurance that any of our sustainability strategies will result in reduced operating costs, higher occupancy or higher rental rates or deter our existing clients from relocating to properties owned by our competitors. We are subject to risks related to the discontinuance of LIBOR. Certain of our existing debt instruments and other financial arrangements, including our $3.0 billion revolving credit facility and our $250.0 million term loan facility, provide for borrowings to be made at variable interest rates that use the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR (or metrics derived from or related to LIBOR), as a benchmark for establishing the interest rate applicable to outstanding borrowings thereunder, and we may incur additional -36- indebtedness or enter into new financial arrangements that use LIBOR as a benchmark for establishing the interest rate for borrowing thereunder. Likewise, as part of our cash management practices we may from time to time invest available cash in financial instruments that use LIBOR as a benchmark for calculating interest payments or other obligations thereunder. LIBOR is in the process of being discontinued. While certain U.S. dollar LIBOR settings will continue to be published on the current basis until June 30, 2023, all other LIBOR settings either are no longer being published or are being published only for a limited time and only on a “synthetic” basis (i.e., not on the basis of submissions made by panel banks). The regulator of the administrator of LIBOR has prohibited any new use of LIBOR by firms subject to its supervision, and certain regulators in the United States have stated that no new contracts using U.S. dollar LIBOR should be entered into after 2021. While our revolving credit facility and our term loan facility include provisions for establishing alternative reference rates when LIBOR is no longer be available, the consequences of the adoption of any such alternative reference rates cannot be predicted and could have an adverse impact on the amount of interest and commitment fees that we pay under those facilities. Likewise, the unavailability of LIBOR may have an adverse impact on interest rates and other financing costs under other debt instruments and other financial obligations of ours, as well as the market value of and the payments we receive under any LIBOR-linked securities or investments that we may own from time to time. In addition, financial markets generally may be adversely affected by the discontinuation of LIBOR, the uncertainties regarding its discontinuation, the alternative reference rates that are being or may be used in place of LIBOR and other issues related to LIBOR. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our charter contains restrictions upon ownership of our common stock. Our charter contains restrictions on ownership and transfer of our common stock intended to, among other purposes, assist us in maintaining our status as a REIT for United States federal and/or state income tax purposes. For example, our charter restricts any person from acquiring beneficial or constructive ownership of more than 9.8% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding shares of common stock. These restrictions could have anti-takeover effects and could reduce the possibility that a third party will attempt to acquire control of us, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The value of certain of our investment in real property may be reduced as the result of the expiration or loss of local tax abatements, tax credit programs, or other governmental incentives. Certain of our investments have the benefit of governmental tax incentives aimed at inducing property users to relocate to incentivize development in areas and neighborhoods which have not historically seen robust commercial development. The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act provided for such communities to be designated as Qualified Opportunity Zones, which are eligible for such tax benefits. These incentives typically have specific sunset provisions and may be subject to governmental discretion in the eligibility or award of the applicable incentives. The expiration of these incentive programs or the inability of potential clients or users to be eligible for or to obtain governmental approval of the incentives, or the inability to remain compliant with such programs, may have an adverse effect on the value of our investment, cash flow and net income, and may result in impairment charges. Risks Relating to the Merger and the Transactions Contemplated by the Merger Agreement We may not be able to integrate VEREIT’s business successfully or realize the anticipated synergies and related benefits of the merger and the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. The merger involved the combination of two companies which operated as independent public companies. We are required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of VEREIT. Potential difficulties we may encounter in the integration process include the following: • the inability to successfully combine the businesses of Realty Income and VEREIT in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the anticipated cost savings; • lost sales and clients as a result of certain clients of either of Realty Income or VEREIT deciding not to do business with the combined company; • the complexities associated with managing the combined company out of multiple locations and integrating personnel from the two companies; • the additional complexities of combining two companies with different histories, regulatory restrictions, markets and customer bases; -37- • the complexities associated with combining Realty Income and VEREIT’s information technology systems including integrating the companies’ two enterprise resource planning (ERP) platforms into one primary ERP tool; • the inability to realize expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements, synergies or other benefits; • the failure to retain key employees of either of the two companies; and • performance shortfalls as a result of the diversion of management’s attention caused by integrating Realty Income’s and VEREIT’s operations. Our historical and unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements may not be representative of our results after the merger and the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. The merger and the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, including the subsequent spin-off of Orion, were completed in November 2021. Accordingly, our historical financial statements and our operating results for the periods prior to such time do not give effect to those transactions. In addition, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements related to such transactions that we have previously prepared were created for informational purposes only and do not purport to be indicative of the financial position or results of operations that actually would have occurred had the merger and the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement been completed as of the dates indicated, nor does it purport to be indicative of the future operating results or financial position of Realty Income after the merger and the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements reflect adjustments, which were based upon preliminary estimates, to allocate the purchase price to VEREIT’s assets and liabilities and certain estimates and assumptions regarding the merger and the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement that Realty Income and VEREIT believe are reasonable under the circumstances.  In addition, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements do not reflect other future events that occur after the merger and the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, including the costs related to the planned integration of the two companies and any future nonrecurring charges resulting from the merger and the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, and do not consider potential impacts of current market conditions on revenues or expense efficiencies. As a result, we cannot assure you that our historical and unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements will be representative of our results for future periods. General Risk Factors The market value of our capital stock and debt securities could be substantially affected by various factors. The market value of our capital stock and debt securities will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time and may be outside of our control, including: • Prevailing interest rates, increases in which may have an adverse effect on the market value of our capital stock and debt securities; • The market for similar securities issued by other REITs; • General economic, political and financial market conditions; • The financial condition, performance and prospects of us, our clients and our competitors; • Changes in legal and regulatory taxation obligations; • Litigation and regulatory proceedings; • Changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts with respect to us, our competitors or our industry; • Changes in our credit ratings; • Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results of us and our competitors; and • Failure to achieve the perceived benefits of the merger and the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement or if the effect of the merger and the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement on our results of operations or financial condition is not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts. In addition, over the last several years, prices of common stock and debt securities in the United States, trading markets have experienced extreme price fluctuations, and the market values of our common stock and debt securities have also fluctuated significantly during this period. As a result of these and other factors, investors who purchase our capital stock and debt securities may experience a decrease, which could be substantial and rapid, in the market value of our capital stock and debt securities, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. -38- Litigation risks could affect our business. From time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings, lawsuits, and other claims including those that may arise out acquisitions, development opportunities and other strategic transactions. An unfavorable resolution of litigation may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Regardless of its outcome, litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses and significantly divert the attention of management. We depend on key personnel. We depend on the efforts of our executive officers and key employees. In addition, our success after the merger with VEREIT will depend in part upon our ability to retain executive officers and key employees who may depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration following the merger or a desire not to remain with Realty Income. The loss of the services of our executive officers and key employees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition and on our ability to pay the principal and interest on our debt securities and other indebtedness and to make distributions to our stockholders. It is possible that we will not be able to recruit additional personnel with equivalent experience in the net lease industry or retain employees to the same extent as in the past. Natural disasters, terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or war, or other unexpected events may affect the value of our debt and equity securities, the markets in which we operate and our results of operations. Natural disasters, terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or war, or other unexpected events may negatively affect our operations, the market price of our capital stock and the value of our debt securities. There can be no assurance that events like these will not occur or have a direct impact on our clients, our business or the United States or world generally. If events like these were to occur, they could materially interrupt our business operations, cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the U.S. and worldwide financial markets and economy. They also could result in or prolong an economic recession in the U.S. or abroad. Any of these occurrences could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results and revenues and on the market price of our capital stock and on the value of our debt securities. It could also have an adverse effect on our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt securities or other indebtedness and to make distributions to our stockholders. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information and to manage or support a variety of our business processes, including financial transactions and maintenance of records, which may include personal identifying information. Although we have taken steps to protect the security of the data maintained in our information systems, our security measures may not be able to prevent the systems’ improper functioning, or the theft of intellectual property, personal information, or personal property, such as in the event of cyber-attacks or ransom-ware attacks. Any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of our information systems could interrupt our operations, result in theft of company assets, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, while we carry cyber liability insurance, such insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses related to such events. Volatility in market and economic conditions may impact the accuracy of the various estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements and footnotes to the financial statements. Various estimates are used in the preparation of our financial statements, including estimates related to asset and liability valuations (or potential impairments), and various receivables. Often these estimates require the use of market data values that are currently difficult to assess, as well as estimates of future performance or receivables collectability that can also be difficult to accurately predict. Although management believes it has been prudent and used reasonable judgment in making these estimates, it is possible that actual results may differ from these estimates. Inherent limitations of internal controls over financial statements, disclosure controls and safeguarding of assets may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our internal controls over financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures and our operating internal controls may not prevent or detect financial misstatements or loss of assets because of inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement and disclosure accuracy and safeguarding of assets. -39- Additionally, as a result of our merger with VEREIT, we are operating two separate ERP systems to execute our financial reporting until we can complete a full data migration and complete the related testing. We have started the process of integrating these two ERP platforms into one primary system and expect to complete the implementation process during 2022. We have updated our internal controls over financial reporting, as necessary, to accommodate modifications to our business processes for these parallel ERP systems, as we work towards enhanced automated controls through a central platform. However, utilization of parallel ERP systems has inherent risks, which can complicate our financial reporting controls and potentially lead to breakdowns in data integrity. This ERP integration also has required, and will continue to require, significant capital and human resources to deploy. In addition, potential flaws in implementing the primary ERP or in the failure of any portion/module of the ERP to meet our needs or provide appropriate controls may pose risks to our ability to operate successfully and efficiently and with an effective system of internal controls. Failures in our internal controls could result in adverse consequences in our financial reporting and operations, including delays, additional costs, impairment in our ability to access capital, adverse impacts to investor confidence, regulatory review, or litigation. Our business operations may not generate the cash needed to make distributions on our capital stock or to service our indebtedness. Our ability to make distributions on our common stock and any outstanding preferred stock and payments on our indebtedness, and to fund planned acquisitions and capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. We cannot make any assurances that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to make distributions on our common stock and any outstanding preferred stock, to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. Disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain financing on reasonable terms and have other adverse effects on us and the market price of our common stock. Historically, there have been periods where the global equity and credit markets have experienced significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which have caused market prices of equity and debt securities to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings less attractive, and in certain cases have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of financing. Uncertainty in the equity and credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional financing at reasonable terms, which may adversely affect our ability to make acquisitions. A prolonged downturn in the equity or credit markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing and may require us to adjust our business plan accordingly. In addition, these factors may make it more difficult for us to sell properties or may adversely affect the price we receive for properties that we do sell, as prospective buyers may experience increased costs of financing or difficulties in obtaining financing. These events in the equity and credit markets may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of common stock, preferred stock or debt securities. These disruptions in the financial markets also may have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock and debt securities, the income we receive from our properties and the lease rates we can charge for our properties, as well as other unknown adverse effects on us or the economy in general. Inflation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Increased inflation could have a more pronounced negative impact on any variable rate debt we incur in the future and on our results of operations. During times when inflation is greater than increases in rent, as provided for in our leases, rent increases may not keep up with the rate of inflation. Likewise, even though net leases reduce our exposure to rising property expenses due to inflation, substantial inflationary pressures and increased costs may have an adverse impact on our clients if increases in their operating expenses exceed increases in revenue, which may adversely affect our clients’ ability to pay rent. In addition, the U.K. government's plan to reform the Retail Price Index (RPI) to align with the Consumer Price Index (CPIH) may result in a lower measure of inflation and, in turn, have a negative impact on our lease revenue currently tied to RPI in the U.K.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

GENERAL Realty Income, The Monthly Dividend Company ® , is an S&P 500 company and member of the S&P 500 Dividend Aristocrats ® index for having increased its dividend every year for over 25 consecutive years. We invest in people and places to deliver dependable monthly dividends that increase over time. We are structured as a real estate investment trust ("REIT") requiring us annually to distribute at least 90% of our taxable income (excluding net capital gains) in the form of dividends to our stockholders. The monthly dividends are supported by the cash flow generated from real estate owned under long-term net lease agreements with our commercial clients. Realty Income was founded in 1969, and listed on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE": O) in 1994. Over the past 53 years, Realty Income has been acquiring and managing freestanding commercial properties that generate rental revenue under long-term net lease agreements with our commercial clients. At December 31, 2021, we owned a diversified portfolio: • Consisting of 11,136 properties; • With an occupancy rate of 98.5%, or 10,972 properties leased and 164 properties available for lease or sale; -42- • With clients doing business in 60 separate industries; • Located in all 50 U.S. states, Puerto Rico, the United Kingdom (U.K.) and Spain; • With approximately 210.1 million square feet of leasable space; • With a weighted average remaining lease term (excluding rights to extend a lease at the option of our client) of approximately 9.0 years; and • With an average leasable space per property of approximately 18,860 square feet, approximately 12,470 square feet per retail property and approximately 248,120 square feet per industrial property. Of the 11,136 properties in the portfolio at December 31, 2021, 11,043, or 99.2%, are single-client properties, of which 10,883 were leased, and the remaining are multi-client properties. Unless otherwise specified, references to rental revenue in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are exclusive of reimbursements from clients for recoverable real estate taxes and operating expenses totaling $104.9 million, $79.4 million and $69.1 million for 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. In addition, references to reserves recorded as a reduction of rental revenue include amounts reserved for in the current period, as well as unrecognized contractual revenue and unrecognized straight-line rental revenue for leases accounted for on a cash basis. References to reserve reversals recorded as increases to rental revenue include amounts where the accounting for recognition of rental revenue and straight-line rental revenue has been moved from the cash to the accrual basis. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Capital Philosophy Historically, we have met our long-term capital needs by issuing common stock, long-term unsecured notes and bonds, term loans under our revolving credit facility, and preferred stock. Over the long term, we believe that common stock should be the majority of our capital structure; however, we may also raise funds from debt or other equity securities. We may issue common stock when we believe that our share price is at a level that allows for the proceeds of any offering to be accretively invested into additional properties. In addition, we may issue common stock to permanently finance properties that were initially financed by our revolving credit facility, commercial paper program, or debt securities. However, we cannot assure you that we will have access to the capital markets at all times and at terms that are acceptable to us. Our primary cash obligations, for the current year and subsequent years, are included in the “Table of Obligations,” which is presented later in this section. We expect to fund our operating expenses and other short-term liquidity requirements, including property acquisitions and development costs, payment of principal and interest on our outstanding indebtedness, property improvements, re-leasing costs and cash distributions to common stockholders, primarily through cash provided by operating activities, borrowings on our credit facility and under our commercial paper program and through public securities offerings. We may choose to mitigate our financial exposure to exchange rate risk for properties acquired outside the U.S. through the issuance of debt securities denominated in the same local currency and through currency derivatives.  We may leave a portion of our foreign cash flow unhedged to reinvest in additional properties in the same local currency. Conservative Capital Structure We believe that our stockholders are best served by a conservative capital structure. Therefore, we seek to maintain a conservative debt level on our balance sheet and solid interest and fixed charge coverage ratios. At December 31, 2021, our total outstanding borrowings of senior unsecured notes and bonds, term loan, mortgages payable, credit facility borrowings, commercial paper, and our proportionate share of outstanding borrowings by unconsolidated entities were $15.26 billion, or approximately 26.5% of our total market capitalization of $57.66 billion. We define our total market capitalization at December 31, 2021 as the sum of: • Shares of our common stock outstanding of 591,261,991, plus total common units outstanding of 1,060,709, multiplied by the last reported sales price of our common stock on the NYSE of $71.59 per share on December 31, 2021, or $42.4 billion; • Outstanding borrowings of $650.0 million on our revolving credit facility; • Outstanding borrowings of $901.4 million on our commercial paper program; • Outstanding mortgages payable of $1.11 billion, excluding net mortgage premiums of $28.7 million and deferred financing costs of $790,000; • Outstanding borrowings of $250.0 million on our term loan, excluding deferred financing costs of $443,000; -43- • Outstanding senior unsecured notes and bonds of $12.26 billion, including Sterling-denominated notes of £1.47 billion, and excluding unamortized net premiums of $295.5 million and deferred financing costs of $53.1 million; and • Our proportionate share of outstanding debt from unconsolidated entities of $86.0 million, excluding deferred financing costs of $1.8 million. Universal Shelf Registration In June 2021, we filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC, which is effective for a term of three years and will expire in June 2024. In accordance with SEC rules, the amount of securities to be issued pursuant to this shelf registration statement was not specified when it was filed and there is no specific dollar limit. The securities covered by this registration statement include (1) common stock, (2) preferred stock, (3) debt securities, (4) depositary shares representing fractional interests in shares of preferred stock, (5) warrants to purchase debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, or depositary shares, and (6) any combination of these securities. We may periodically offer one or more of these securities in amounts, prices and on terms to be announced when and if these securities are offered. The specifics of any future offerings, along with the use of proceeds of any securities offered, will be described in detail in a prospectus supplement, or other offering materials, at the time of any offering. At-the-Market ("ATM") Program Under our "at-the-market" equity distribution plan, or our ATM program, up to 69,088,433 shares of common stock may be offered and sold (1) by us to, or through, a consortium of banks acting as our sales agents or (2) by a consortium of banks acting as forward sellers on behalf of any forward purchasers contemplated thereunder, in each case by means of ordinary brokers' transactions on the NYSE at prevailing market prices or at negotiated prices. During 2021, we issued 46,290,540 shares and raised approximately $3.21 billion of gross proceeds under the ATM program. At December 31, 2021, we had 29,387,491 shares remaining for future issuance under our ATM program. We anticipate maintaining the availability of our ATM program in the future, including the replenishment of authorized shares issuable thereunder. Issuance of Common Stock in Conjunction with our Merger with VEREIT On November 1, 2021, we completed our acquisition of VEREIT. Pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, each outstanding share of VEREIT common stock and each common unit of VEREIT OP (other than those held by VEREIT, us or our affiliates) was converted into 0.705 shares of Realty Income common stock. As a result of the merger, former VEREIT common stockholders, VEREIT OP common unitholders and awardees of vested share awards separated from Realty Income received approximately 162 million shares of Realty Income common stock, based on the shares of VEREIT common stock and common units of VEREIT OP outstanding as of October 29, 2021. Issuances of Common Stock in Underwritten Public Offerings In July 2021, we issued 9,200,000 shares of common stock, inclusive of 1,200,000 shares purchased by the underwriters upon the exercise of their option to purchase additional shares. After deducting underwriting discounts of $2.9 million, the net proceeds of $594.1 million were used to repay borrowings under our $1.0 billion commercial paper program, to fund investment opportunities and for other general corporate purposes. In January 2021, we issued 12,075,000 shares of common stock, inclusive of 1,575,000 shares purchased by the underwriters upon the exercise of their option to purchase additional shares. After deducting underwriting discounts of $19.3 million, the net proceeds of $669.6 million were used to fund property acquisitions and for general corporate purposes, and working capital. Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan Our Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan, or our DRSPP, provides our common stockholders, as well as new investors, with a convenient and economical method of purchasing our common stock and reinvesting their distributions. Our DRSPP also allows our current stockholders to buy additional shares of common stock by reinvesting all or a portion of their distributions. Our DRSPP authorizes up to 26,000,000 common shares to be issued. Our DRSPP includes a waiver approval process, allowing larger investors or institutions, per a formal approval process, to purchase shares at a small discount, if approved by us. We did not issue shares under the waiver approval process during 2021.  During 2021, we issued 168,000 shares and raised approximately $11.2 million under our DRSPP. At December 31, 2021, we had 11,335,379 shares remaining for future issuance under our DRSPP program. -44- Revolving Credit Facility and Commercial Paper Program We have a $3.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility with an initial term that expires in March 2023 and includes, at our option, two six-month extensions. The multicurrency revolving facility allows us to borrow in up to 14 currencies, including U.S. dollars. Our revolving credit facility has a $1.0 billion expansion option, which is subject to obtaining lender commitments. Under our revolving credit facility, our investment grade credit ratings as of December 31, 2021 provide for financing at the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus 0.775% with a facility commitment fee of 0.125%, for all-in pricing of 0.90% over LIBOR. Our revolving credit facility and term loan facility were amended in December 2021 to include provisions for establishing alternative reference rates when LIBOR is no longer available. The borrowing rate is subject to an interest rate floor and may change if our investment grade credit ratings change. We also have other interest rate options available to us under our credit facility. Our credit facility is unsecured and, accordingly, we have not pledged any assets as collateral for this obligation. At December 31, 2021, we had a borrowing capacity of $2.35 billion available on our revolving credit facility and an outstanding balance of $650.0 million. The weighted average interest rate on borrowings under our revolving credit facility during 2021 was 0.9% per annum. We must comply with various financial and other covenants in our credit facility. At December 31, 2021, we were in compliance with these covenants. We expect to use our credit facility to acquire additional properties and for other general corporate purposes. Any additional borrowings will increase our exposure to interest rate risk. We have a U.S. dollar-denominated unsecured commercial paper program. Under the terms of the program, we may issue from time to time unsecured commercial paper notes up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding of $1.0 billion. Borrowings under this program generally mature in one year or less. At December 31, 2021, we had an outstanding balance of $901.4 million. The weighted average interest rate on borrowings under our commercial paper program was 0.2% for 2021. We use our $3.0 billion revolving credit facility as a liquidity backstop for the repayment of the notes issued under the commercial paper program. The commercial paper borrowings generally carry a term of less than six months. The commercial paper borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2021 mature between January 2022 and April 2022. We generally use our credit facility and commercial paper borrowings for the short-term financing of new property acquisitions. Thereafter, we generally seek to refinance those borrowings with the net proceeds of long-term or more permanent financing, including the issuance of equity or debt securities. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to obtain any such refinancing, or that market conditions prevailing at the time of the refinancing will enable us to issue equity or debt securities at acceptable terms. We regularly review our credit facility and commercial paper program and may seek to extend, renew or replace our credit facility and commercial paper program, to the extent we deem appropriate. Term Loans In October 2018, in conjunction with entering into our revolving credit facility, we entered into a $250.0 million senior unsecured term loan, which matures in March 2024, and is governed by the credit agreement that governs our revolving credit facility. Borrowing under this term loan bears interest at the current one-month LIBOR, plus 0.85%. In conjunction with this term loan, we also entered into an interest rate swap which effectively fixes our per annum interest on this term loan at 3.89%. Mortgage Debt As of December 31, 2021, we had $1.11 billion of mortgages payable, the majority of which were assumed in connection with our property acquisitions, including ten mortgages from our merger with VEREIT in 2021 totaling $839.1 million and a Sterling-denominated mortgage payable of £31.0 million. Additionally, at December 31, 2021, we had net premiums totaling $28.7 million on these mortgages and deferred financing costs of $790,000. We expect to pay off the mortgages payable as soon as prepayment penalties have declined to a level that would make it economically feasible to do so. During 2021, we made $66.6 million of principal payments, including the repayment of seven mortgages in full for $63.0 million. Notes Outstanding Our senior unsecured note and bond obligations consist of the following as of December 31, 2021, sorted by maturity date (in millions): -45- (1) In connection with our merger with VEREIT, we completed our debt exchange offer to exchange all outstanding notes issued by VEREIT OP on November 9, 2021 for new notes issued by Realty Income, pursuant to which approximately 99.2% of the outstanding notes issued by VEREIT OP were exchanged for a like aggregate principal amount of the notes issued by Realty Income. Prior to the completion of our merger with VEREIT on November 1, 2021, these notes were not the obligation of Realty Income. With respect to the notes originally issued by VEREIT OP that remained outstanding, we amended the indenture governing such notes to, among other things, eliminate substantially all of the restrictive covenants in such indenture. In January 2022, we issued £250.0 million of 1.875% senior unsecured notes due January 2027 (the "January 2027 Notes") and £250.0 million of 2.500% senior unsecured notes due January 2042 (the "January 2042 Notes"). The public offering price for the January 2027 Notes was 99.487% of the principal amount, for an effective semi-annual yield to maturity of 1.974%, and the public offering price for the January 2042 Notes was 98.445% of the principal amount, for an effective semi-annual yield to maturity of 2.584%. Combined, the new issues of the January 2027 Notes and the January 2042 Notes have a weighted average term of approximately 12.5 years and a weighted average effective semi-annual yield to maturity of approximately 2.28%. In December 2021, we completed the early redemption on all $750.0 million in principal amount of our outstanding 4.650% notes due August 2023, plus accrued and unpaid interest. -46- During the year ended December 31, 2021 we issued the following notes and bonds (in millions): (1) In connection with our merger with VEREIT, we completed our debt exchange offer to exchange all outstanding notes issued by VEREIT OP on November 9, 2021 for new notes issued by Realty Income, pursuant to which approximately 99.2% of the outstanding notes issued by VEREIT OP were exchanged. We issued $1,000 principal amount of Realty Notes for each validly tendered VEREIT Notes with $1,000 principal amount.  For this reason, we denote our “Price of par value” as 100%. Prior to the completion of our merger with VEREIT on November 1, 2021, these notes were not the obligation of Realty Income. With respect to the notes originally issued by VEREIT OP that remained outstanding, we amended the indenture governing such notes to, among other things, eliminate substantially all of the restrictive covenants in such indenture. We intend to allocate an equal amount of the net proceeds from the July 2021 Sterling-denominated offering of 1.125% notes due July 2027 of £400.0 million (the "July 2027 Notes"), which approximated $546.3 million, and the July 2021 Sterling-denominated offering of 1.750% notes due July 2033 of £350.0 million (the "July 2033 Notes"), which approximated $480.6 million, as converted at the applicable exchange rate on the closing of the offerings, to finance or refinance, in whole or in part, new or existing eligible green projects in the categories outlined in our Green Financing Framework, which is designed to align with the International Capital Markets Association ("ICMA") Green Bond Principles 2021. Pending the allocation of an amount equal to the net proceeds from the offering of the notes to eligible green projects, we may temporarily use all or a portion of the net proceeds to repay any outstanding indebtedness or for liability management activities, or invest such net proceeds in accordance with our cash investment policy. All of our outstanding notes and bonds have fixed interest rates and contain various covenants, with which we remained in compliance as of December 31, 2021. Additionally, with the exception of our £400.0 million of 1.625% senior unsecured notes issued in October 2020, our January 2027 Notes, our July 2027 Notes, our July 2033 Notes, and our January 2042 Notes, in each case where interest is paid annually, interest on our remaining senior unsecured note and bond obligations is paid semiannually. The following is a summary of the key financial covenants for our senior unsecured notes, as defined and calculated per the terms of our senior notes and bonds. These calculations, which are not based on U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") measurements, are presented to investors to show our ability to incur additional debt under the terms of our senior notes and bonds as well as to disclose our current compliance with such covenants, and are not measures of our liquidity or performance. The actual amounts as of December 31, 2021 are: (1) Our debt service coverage ratio is calculated on a pro forma basis for the preceding four-quarter period on the assumptions that: (i) the incurrence of any debt (as defined in the covenants) incurred by us since the first day of such four-quarter period and the application of the proceeds therefrom (including to refinance other Debt since the first day of such four-quarter period), (ii) the repayment or retirement of any of our debt since the first day of such four-quarter period, and (iii) any acquisition or disposition by us of any asset or group since the first day of such four quarters had in each case occurred on January 1, 2021, and subject to certain additional adjustments.  Such pro forma ratio has been prepared on the basis required by that debt service covenant, reflects various estimates and assumptions and is subject to other uncertainties, and therefore does not purport to reflect what our actual debt service coverage ratio would have been had transactions referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of the preceding sentence occurred as of January 1, 2021, nor does it purport to reflect our debt service coverage ratio for any future period. The following is our calculation of debt service and fixed charge coverage at December 31, 2021 (in thousands, for trailing twelve months): -47- Cash Reserves We are organized to operate as an equity REIT that acquires and leases properties and distributes to stockholders, in the form of monthly cash distributions, a substantial portion of our net cash flow generated from leases on our properties. We intend to retain an appropriate amount of cash as working capital. At December 31, 2021, we had cash and cash equivalents totaling $258.6 million, inclusive of £105.1 million Sterling and €7.2 million Euro. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents on hand, cash provided from operating activities, and borrowing capacity is sufficient to meet our liquidity needs for the next twelve months. We intend, however, to use permanent or long-term capital to fund property acquisitions and to repay future borrowings under our credit facility and commercial paper program. Credit Agency Ratings The borrowing interest rates under our revolving credit facility are based upon our ratings assigned by credit rating agencies. As of December 31, 2021, we were assigned the following investment grade corporate credit ratings on our senior unsecured notes and bonds: Moody’s Investors Service has assigned a rating of A3 with a “stable” outlook and Standard & Poor’s Ratings Group has assigned a rating of A- with a “stable” outlook. In addition, we were assigned the following ratings on our commercial paper at December 31, 2021: Moody's Investors Service has assigned a rating of P-2 and Standard & Poor's Ratings Group has assigned a rating of A-2. Based on our ratings as of December 31, 2021, the facility interest rate was LIBOR, plus 0.775% with a facility commitment fee of 0.125%, for all-in drawn pricing of 0.90% over LIBOR. Our credit facility provides that the interest rate can range between: (i) LIBOR, plus 1.45% if our credit rating is lower than BBB-/Baa3 or our senior unsecured debt is unrated and (ii) LIBOR, plus 0.75% if our credit rating is A/A2 or higher. In addition, our credit facility provides for a facility commitment fee based on our credit ratings, which range from: (i) 0.30% for a rating lower than BBB-/Baa3 or unrated, and (ii) 0.10% for a credit rating of A/A2 or higher. Our revolving credit facility and term loan facility were amended in December 2021 to include provisions for establishing alternative reference rates when LIBOR is no longer available. We also issue senior debt securities from time to time and our credit ratings can impact the interest rates charged in those transactions. If our credit ratings or ratings outlook change, our cost to obtain debt financing could increase or decrease. The credit ratings assigned to us could change based upon, among other things, our results of operations and financial condition. These ratings are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies and we cannot assure you that our ratings will not be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future if, in its judgment, circumstances warrant. Moreover, a rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold our debt securities, preferred stock or common stock. -48- Table of Obligations The following table summarizes the maturity of each of our obligations as of December 31, 2021 (in millions): (1) The initial term of the credit facility expires in March 2023 and includes, at our option, two six-month extensions. At December 31, 2021 , there were $650.0 million in borrowings under our revolving credit facility. The commercial paper borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2021 totaled $901.4 million and mature between January 2022 and April 2022. (2) Excludes both non–cash net premiums recorded on notes payable of $295.5 million and deferred financing costs of $53.1 million. The table of obligations also excludes the January 2022 issuances of £250.0 million of senior unsecured notes due January 2027 and £250.0 million of senior unsecured notes due January 2042. (3) Excludes deferred financing costs of $443,000. (4) Excludes both non–cash net premiums recorded on the mortgages payable of $28.7 million and deferred financing costs of $790,000. (5) Interest on the term loan, notes, bonds, mortgages payable, credit facility, and commercial paper program has been calculated based on outstanding balances at period end through their respective maturity dates. Excludes interest from the January 2022 issuances of £250.0 million of 1.875% senior unsecured notes due January 2027 and £250.0 million of 2.500% senior unsecured notes due January 2042. (6) Realty Income currently pays the ground lessors directly for the rent under the ground leases. (7) Our clients, who are generally sub-clients under ground leases, are responsible for paying the rent under these ground leases. In the event our client fails to pay the ground lease rent, we are primarily responsible. (8) “Other” consists of $285.7 million of commitments under construction contracts and $74.7 million for re-leasing costs, recurring capital expenditures, and non-recurring building improvements. Our credit facility, commercial paper program, term loan, and notes payable obligations are unsecured. Accordingly, we have not pledged any assets as collateral for these obligations. Unconsolidated Investments As a result of our merger with VEREIT, we assumed an equity method investment in three unconsolidated entities. We are responsible to fund our proportionate share of any operating cash deficits. There are no further material commitments related to these investments at this time. The debt held by the unconsolidated entities is secured by its properties, though is non-recourse to us. Impact of Real Estate and Credit Markets In the commercial real estate market, property prices generally continue to fluctuate. Likewise, during certain periods, including the current market, the global credit markets have experienced significant price volatility, dislocations, and liquidity disruptions, which may impact our access to and cost of capital. We continually monitor the commercial real estate and global credit markets carefully and, if required, will make decisions to adjust our business strategy accordingly. Acquisitions During 2021 Below is a listing of our acquisitions in the U.S. and Europe for the year ended December 31, 2021 (excludes properties assumed on November 1, 2021 in conjunction with our merger with VEREIT): (1) The initial weighted average cash lease yield for a property is generally computed as estimated contractual first year cash net operating income, which, in the case of a net leased property, is equal to the aggregate cash base rent for the first full year of each lease, divided by the total cost of the property. Since it is possible that a client could default on the payment of contractual rent, we cannot provide assurance that -49- the actual return on the funds invested will remain at the percentages listed above.  Contractual net operating income used in the calculation of initial average cash yield includes approximately $8.5 million received as settlement credits for 41 properties as reimbursement of free rent periods for the year ended December 31, 2021. In the case of a property under development or expansion, the contractual lease rate is generally fixed such that rent varies based on the actual total investment in order to provide a fixed rate of return. When the lease does not provide for a fixed rate of return on a property under development or expansion, the initial weighted average cash lease yield is computed as follows: estimated cash net operating income (determined by the lease) for the first full year of each lease, divided by our projected total investment in the property, including land, construction and capitalized interest costs. (2) None of our investments during 2021 caused any one client to be 10% or more of our total assets at December 31, 2021. (3) Includes £7.0 million of investments in U.K. development properties, converted at the applicable exchange rates on the funding dates. (4) Our clients occupying the new properties are 83.6% retail and 16.4% industrial, based on rental revenue. Approximately 40% of the rental revenue generated from acquisitions during 2021 is from our investment grade rated clients, their subsidiaries or affiliated companies. Portfolio Discussion Leasing Results At December 31, 2021, we had 164 properties available for lease out of 11,136 properties in our portfolio, which represents a 98.5% occupancy rate based on the number of properties in our portfolio. Below is a summary of our portfolio activity for the periods indicated below: (1) Includes 103 net vacancies assumed from the combined effect of our merger with VEREIT and spin-off of office properties to Orion Office REIT Inc. in November 2021. (2) Includes scheduled and unscheduled expirations (including leases rejected in bankruptcy), as well as future expirations resolved in the periods indicated above. During the three months ended December 31, 2021, the annual new rent on re-leases was $49.09 million, as compared to the previous annual rent of $48.22 million on the same units, representing a rent recapture rate of 101.8% on the units re-leased. We re-leased six units to new clients without a period of vacancy, and nine units to new clients after a period of vacancy. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the annual new rent on re-leases was $89.23 million, as compared to the previous annual rent of $86.29 million on the same units, representing a rent recapture rate of 103.4% on the units re-leased. We re-leased 13 units to new clients without a period of vacancy, and 33 units to new clients after a period of vacancy. As part of our re-leasing costs, we pay leasing commissions to unrelated, third party real estate brokers consistent with the commercial real estate industry standard, and sometimes provide rent concessions to our clients. We do not consider the collective impact of the leasing commissions or rent concessions to our clients to be material to our financial position or results of operations. At December 31, 2021, our average annualized contractual rent was approximately $14.03 per square foot on the 10,972 leased properties in our portfolio. At December 31, 2021, we classified 33 properties, with a carrying amount of $30.5 million, as real estate and lease intangibles held for sale, net on our balance sheet. The expected sale of these properties does not represent a strategic shift that will have a major effect on our operations and financial -50- results and is consistent with our existing disposition strategy to further enhance our real estate portfolio and maximize portfolio returns. Investments in Existing Properties During 2021, we capitalized costs of $21.9 million on existing properties in our portfolio, consisting of $6.3 million for re-leasing costs, $978,000 for recurring capital expenditures, and $14.6 million for non-recurring building improvements. In comparison, during 2020, we capitalized costs of $7.0 million on existing properties in our portfolio, consisting of $1.8 million for re-leasing costs, $198,000 for recurring capital expenditures, and $5.0 million for non-recurring building improvements. The majority of our building improvements relate to roof repairs, HVAC improvements, and parking lot resurfacing and replacements. The amounts of our capital expenditures can vary significantly, depending on the rental market, credit worthiness of our clients, the lease term and the willingness of our clients to pay higher rental revenue over the terms of the leases. We define recurring capital expenditures as mandatory and recurring landlord capital expenditure obligations that have a limited useful life. We define non-recurring capital expenditures as property improvements in which we invest additional capital that extend the useful life of the properties. Increases in Monthly Dividends to Common Stockholders We have continued our 53-year policy of paying monthly dividends. In addition, we increased the dividend five times during 2021 and once during 2022. As of February 2022, we have paid 97 consecutive quarterly dividend increases and increased the dividend 114 times since our listing on the NYSE in 1994. The dividends paid per share during 2021 totaled $2.833, as compared to $2.794 during 2020, an increase of $0.039, or 1.4%. In November 2021, we also made a $2.060 tax distribution of Orion shares, that occurred in conjunction with the Orion Divestiture on November 12, 2021, after our merger with VEREIT on November 1, 2021.  The fair market value of these shares for tax distribution was determined to be $20.6272 per share, which was calculated using the five day volume weighted average share price after issuance. The monthly dividend of $0.2465 per share represents a current annualized dividend of $2.958 per share, and an annualized dividend yield of approximately 4.1% based on the last reported sale price of our common stock on the NYSE of $71.59 on December 31, 2021. Although we expect to continue our policy of paying monthly dividends, we cannot guarantee that we will maintain our current level of dividends, that we will continue our pattern of increasing dividends per share, or what our actual dividend yield will be in any future period. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Critical Accounting Policies Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP, and are the basis for our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. Preparing our consolidated financial statements requires us to make a number of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. We believe that we have made these estimates and assumptions in an appropriate manner and in a way that accurately reflects our financial condition. We continually test and evaluate these estimates and assumptions using our historical knowledge of the business, as well as other factors, to ensure that they are reasonable for reporting purposes. However, actual results may differ from these estimates and assumptions. This summary should be read in conjunction with the more complete discussion of our accounting policies and procedures included in note 2 to our consolidated financial statements. -51- In order to prepare our consolidated financial statements according to the rules and guidelines set forth by GAAP, many subjective judgments must be made with regard to critical accounting policies. Management must make significant assumptions in determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. When acquiring a property for investment purposes, we typically allocate the cost of real estate acquired, inclusive of transaction costs, to: (1) land, (2) building and improvements, and (3) identified intangible assets and liabilities, based in each case on their relative estimated fair values. Intangible assets and liabilities consist of above-market or below-market lease value and the value of in-place leases, as applicable. Additionally, above–market rents on certain leases under which we are a lessor are accounted for as financing receivables amortizing over the lease term, while below–market rents on certain leases under which we are a lessor are accounted for as prepaid rent. In an acquisition of multiple properties, we must also allocate the purchase price among the properties. The allocation of the purchase price is based on our assessment of estimated fair value of the land, building and improvements, and identified intangible assets and liabilities and is often based upon the various characteristics of the market where the property is located. In addition, any assumed mortgages are recorded at their estimated fair values. The estimated fair values of our mortgages payable have been calculated by discounting the future cash flows using applicable interest rates that have been adjusted for factors, such as industry type, client investment grade, maturity date, and comparable borrowings for similar assets. The use of different assumptions in the allocation of the purchase price of the acquired properties and liabilities assumed could affect the timing of recognition of the related revenue and expenses. Another significant judgment must be made as to if, and when, impairment losses should be taken on our properties when events or a change in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. If estimated future operating cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) plus estimated disposition proceeds (undiscounted) are less than the current book value of the property, a fair value analysis is performed and, to the extent the estimated fair value is less than the current book value, a provision for impairment is recorded to reduce the book value to estimated fair value. Key inputs that we utilize in this analysis include projected rental rates, estimated holding periods, capital expenditures, and property sales capitalization rates. If a property is held for sale, it is carried at the lower of carrying cost or estimated fair value, less estimated cost to sell. The carrying value of our real estate is the largest component of our consolidated balance sheets. Our strategy of primarily holding properties, long-term, directly decreases the likelihood of their carrying values not being recoverable, thus requiring the recognition of an impairment. However, if our strategy, or one or more of the above assumptions were to change in the future, an impairment may need to be recognized. If events should occur that require us to reduce the carrying value of our real estate by recording provisions for impairment, they could have a material impact on our results of operations. When assessing the collectability of future lease payments, one of the key factors we have considered during 2020 and 2021 has been the COVID-19 pandemic. We generally assess collectability based on an analysis of creditworthiness, economic trends, and other facts and circumstances related to our applicable clients. If the collection of substantially all of the future lease payments is less than probable, we will write-off the receivable balances associated with the lease and cease to recognize lease income, including straight-line rent, unless cash is received when due. Unless otherwise specified, references to reserves recorded as a reduction of rental revenue include amounts reserved for in the current period, as well as unrecognized contractual rental revenue and unrecognized straight-line rental revenue for leases accounted for on a cash basis. During 2021, we have entered into rent deferral agreements with certain clients, allowing them to pay rent to us over an extended time period for COVID-related receivables. Additionally, gradual improvements in certain client's financial positions have allowed us to re-assess, and potentially change, this cash basis accounting for outstanding receivables. References to reserve reversals recorded as increases to rental revenue include amounts where the accounting for recognition of rental revenue and straight-line rental revenue has been moved from the cash to the accrual basis. As of December 31, 2021, other than the information related to the reserves we have recorded to such date, we do not have any further client specific information that would change our assessment that collection of substantially all of the future lease payments under our existing leases is probable. However, there may be impacts in future periods that could change this assessment as the situation continues to evolve and as more information becomes available. The COVID-19 pandemic and the measures taken to limit its spread are negatively impacting the economy across many industries, including the industries in which some of our clients operate. These impacts may continue and increase in severity as the duration or extent of the pandemic increases, which may, in turn, adversely impact the fair value estimates of our real estate and require the recording of impairments on our properties. As a result, we evaluated certain key assumptions involving fair value estimates of our real estate, recording of impairments on our properties and collectability of our accounts receivable for our clients. Due to more positive trends, we did not have to record any provisions for impairment on our theater properties during 2021. However, we continue to evaluate the -52- potential impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and the measures taken to limit its spread on our business and industry segments, as the situation continues to evolve and more information becomes available. The following is a comparison of our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019. Total Revenue The following summarizes our total revenue (in thousands): Rental Revenue (excluding reimbursable) The table below summarizes the increase in rental revenue (excluding reimbursable) in 2021 compared to 2020 (dollars in thousands): (1) Excludes 5,869,364 square feet from properties ground leased to clients and 2,100,990 square feet from properties with no land or building ownership. (2) For purposes of comparability, same store rental revenue is presented on a constant currency basis using the exchange rate as of December 31, 2021 of 1.35 GBP/USD. None of the properties in Spain met our same store pool definition for the periods presented. In addition, the same store pool excludes properties assumed on November 1, 2021 as a result of our merger with VEREIT. (3) Relates to the aggregate of (i) rental revenue from properties (128 properties comprising 2,292,635 square feet) that were available for lease during part of 2021 or 2020, (ii) rental revenue for properties (nine properties comprising 357,605 square feet) under development, and (iii) rental revenue that is not contractual base rent such as lease termination settlements. The table below summarizes the increase in rental revenue (excluding reimbursable) in 2020 compared to 2019 (dollars in thousands): -53- (1) Relates to the aggregate of (i) rental revenue from properties (174 properties comprising 2,973,551 square feet) that were available for lease during part of 2020 or 2019, (ii) rental revenue for properties (six properties comprising 943,004 square feet) under development, and (iii) lease termination settlements. For purposes of determining the same store rent property pool, we include all properties that were owned for the entire year-to-date period, for both the current and prior year, except for properties during the current or prior year that; (i) were vacant at any time, (ii) were under development or redevelopment, or (iii) were involved in eminent domain and rent was reduced. Each of the exclusions from the same store pool are separately addressed within the applicable sentences above, explaining the changes in rental revenue for the period. Our calculation of same store rental revenue includes rent deferred for future payment as a result of lease concessions we granted in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and recognized under the practical expedient provided by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). Same store rental revenue in 2021 was negatively impacted by net reserves recorded as reductions of rental revenue of $6.6 million, compared to $32.9 million in 2020. Same store rental revenue in 2020 was negatively impacted by net reserves recorded as reductions of rental revenue of $39.9 million compared to $1.4 million in 2019. Our calculation of same store rental revenue also includes uncollected rent for which we have not granted a lease concession. If these applicable amounts of rent deferrals and uncollected rent were excluded from our calculation of same store rental revenue, the increase for 2021 relative to 2020 would have been 7.7%. Rental revenue was negatively impacted by rent reserves during 2021 and 2020, primarily due to the COVID-19 pandemic, particularly with respect to the ongoing disruption to the theater industry. As the COVID-19 pandemic did not affect our rent collections until April 2020, there was no related impact for the three months ended March 31, 2020. The following table summarizes reserves recorded as a reduction of rental revenue (in millions): Of the 11,136 properties in the portfolio at December 31, 2021, 11,043, or 99.2%, are single-client properties and the remaining are multi-client properties. Of the 11,043 single-client properties, 10,883, or 98.6%, were net leased at December 31, 2021. Of the 11,236 in-place leases in the portfolio, which excludes 208 vacant units, 9,639 or 85.8% were under leases that provide for increases in rental revenue through: • Base rent increases tied to inflation (typically subject to ceilings); • Percentage rent based on a percentage of the clients’ gross sales; • Fixed increases; or • A combination of two or more of the above rent provisions. Percentage rent, which is included in rental revenue, was $6.5 million in 2021, $5.1 million in 2020, and $8.0 million in 2019. Percentage rent in 2021 was less than 1% of rental revenue and we anticipate percentage rent to be less than 1% of rental revenue in 2022. At December 31, 2021, our portfolio of 11,136 properties was 98.5% leased with 164 properties available for lease, as compared to 97.9% leased, with 140 properties available for lease at December 31, 2020. It has been our experience that approximately 1% to 4% of our property portfolio will be unleased at any given time; however, it is possible that the number of properties available for lease or sale could increase in the future, given the nature of economic cycles and other unforeseen global events, such as the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and the measures taken to limit its spread. Rental Revenue (reimbursable) A number of our leases provide for contractually obligated reimbursements from clients for recoverable real estate taxes and operating expenses. The increase in contractually obligated reimbursements by our clients in the periods presented is primarily due to the growth of our portfolio due to acquisitions. -54- Other Revenue Other revenue primarily relates to interest income recognized on financing receivables for certain leases with above-market terms. The increases in 2021 and 2020 are due to additional leases with above-market terms, which is proportional to overall portfolio growth. Total Expenses The following summarizes our total expenses (dollars in thousands): (1) In 2021, we began presenting 'Income taxes,' which was previously presented in 'Expenses,' below a newly captioned subtotal for 'Income before income taxes' within our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income. Prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. (2) General and administrative expenses for 2020 included an executive severance charge related to the departure of our former Chief Financial Officer ("CFO") in March 2020. The total value of cash, stock compensation and professional fees incurred as a result of this severance was $3.5 million and was recorded to general and administrative expense. In order to present a normalized calculation of our general and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenue for 2020, we have excluded this executive severance charge to arrive at a normalized general and administrative amount of $69.8 million which was used for our calculation. (3) Excludes rental revenue (reimbursable). Total revenue for 2020 and 2019 was updated to reflect the reclassification of certain miscellaneous non-recurring revenue from other revenue to other income, net in the consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income. Depreciation and Amortization The increase in depreciation and amortization in 2021 and 2020 was primarily due to the acquisition of properties in 2021 and 2020, which was partially offset by property sales in those same periods. As discussed in the sections entitled “Funds from Operations Available to Common Stockholders ("FFO") and Normalized Funds from Operations Available to Common Stockholders ("Normalized FFO")" and “Adjusted Funds from Operations Available to Common Stockholders ("AFFO"),” depreciation and amortization is a non-cash item that is added back to net income available to common stockholders for our calculation of FFO, Normalized FFO, and AFFO. -55- Interest Expense The following is a summary of the components of our interest expense (dollars in thousands): The increase in interest expense from 2020 to 2021 is primarily due to the issuance of $4.65 billion of notes associated with the exchange offer in conjunction with our merger with VEREIT in November 2021, the issuance of senior unsecured notes during 2020 and 2021 outside of our merger with VEREIT, which included aggregate totals of $1.68 billion in principal of USD denominated notes and £1.15 billion in principal of Sterling denominated notes, partially offset by the early redemptions during 2021 and 2020 of $1.2 billion of notes, increases in amortization of net note and mortgage premiums, and lower average balances on our credit facility and commercial paper borrowings. The increase in interest expense from 2019 to 2020 is primarily due to the October 2020 issuance of our 1.625% notes due 2030, May and July 2020 issuances of our 2031 Notes, the May 2019 issuance of our 2.730% notes due 2034, the June 2019 issuance of our 3.250% notes due 2029, and higher interest related to mortgages assumed during December 2019, partially offset by the January 2020 repayment of our 5.750% notes due January 2021, the June 2020 repayment of one of our $250.0 million term loans, and lower average interest rates. For the year ended December 31, 2021, the weighted average interest rate on our: • Revolving credit facility outstanding borrowings of $650.0 million, was 0.9% • Commercial paper outstanding borrowings of $901.4 million was 0.2%; • Term loan outstanding of $250.0 million (excluding deferred financing costs of $443,000) was swapped to fixed at 3.9%; • Mortgages payable of $1.11 billion (excluding net premiums totaling $28.7 million and deferred financing costs of $790,000 on these mortgages) was 4.7%; and • Notes and bonds payable of $12.26 billion (excluding unamortized net premiums of $295.5 million and deferred financing costs of $53.1 million) was 3.3%. Property Expenses (excluding reimbursable) Property expenses (excluding reimbursable) consist of costs associated with properties available for lease, non-net leased properties and general portfolio expenses. Expenses related to properties available for lease and non-net leased properties include, but are not limited to, property taxes, maintenance, insurance, utilities, property inspections and legal fees. General portfolio costs include, but are not limited to, insurance, legal, property inspections, and title search fees. At December 31, 2021, 164 properties were available for lease or sale, as compared to 140 at December 31, 2020 and 94 at December 31, 2019. The increase in property expenses (excluding reimbursable) in 2021 is primarily due to the increase in portfolio size, resulting in higher utilities, repairs and maintenance, property-related legal expenses, property taxes, and reserves for contractually obligated reimbursements by our clients. The increase in property expenses in 2020 relative to 2019 is primarily due to reserves for contractually obligated reimbursements by our clients, an increase in repairs and maintenance expense, and an increase in portfolio size and the number of vacant properties at year-end. -56- Property Expenses (reimbursable) The increase in property expenses (reimbursable) in both 2021 and 2020 was primarily attributable to our increased portfolio size, which contributed to higher operating expenses as a result of our acquisitions in 2021 and 2020, and an increase in property taxes paid on behalf of our clients. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses are expenditures related to the operations of our company, including employee-related costs, professional fees, and other general overhead costs associated with running our business. The increase in general and administrative expenses for 2021 is primarily due to higher payroll-related costs and higher corporate-level professional fees. The increase in general and administrative expenses for 2020 was primarily due to a severance charge of $3.5 million for our former CFO, who departed the company in March 2020, higher payroll-related costs, and higher corporate–level professional fees, partially offset by lower costs for terminated acquisitions and travel. Provisions for Impairment The following table summarizes provisions for impairment during the periods indicated below (dollars in millions): During 2020, we identified the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic as an impairment triggering event for properties occupied by certain of our clients experiencing difficulties meeting their lease obligations to us. After considering the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on the key assumptions, we determined that the carrying values of 38 properties classified as held for investment for the year ended December 31, 2020 were not recoverable. As a result, we recorded provisions for impairment of $105.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 on the applicable properties impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Of the provisions for impairment recorded during 2020 for properties impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, a total of 13 assets occupied by certain of our clients in the theater industry were impaired for $83.8 million, which reduced the carrying value of the properties from $123.4 million to their estimated fair value of $39.6 million. Impairments recorded on other properties during the year ended December 31, 2020 totaled $42.2 million. Merger and Integration-related Costs In conjunction with our merger with VEREIT and Orion Divestiture, we incurred approximately $167.4 million of merger and integration-related transaction costs during 2021. The merger and integration-related costs incurred to date primarily consist of advisory fees, attorney fees, accountant fees, SEC filing fees and additional integration costs that include incremental and non-recurring costs necessary to convert data and systems, retain employees and otherwise enable us to operate the acquired VEREIT assets efficiently. There were no merger and integration-related costs during 2020 or 2019. -57- Gain on Sales of Real Estate The following summarizes our property dispositions (dollars in millions). These amounts exclude properties disposed from the spin-off of office properties to Orion Office REIT, Inc. in November 2021. Foreign Currency and Derivative Gains, Net We borrow in the functional currencies of the countries in which we invest. Foreign currency and derivative gains, net are primarily a result of intercompany debt with certain remeasurement transactions and mark-to-market adjustments on derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting. Loss on Extinguishment of Debt In December 2021, we completed the early redemption on all $750.0 million in principal amount of outstanding 4.650% notes due August 2023, plus accrued and unpaid interest. As a result of the early redemption, we recognized a $46.4 million loss on extinguishment of debt during 2021. In October 2021, we completed the early redemption on $9.6 million in principal of a mortgage due June 2022, plus accrued and unpaid interest. As a result of the early redemption, we recognized a loss of $315,000 on extinguishment of debt for 2021. In September 2021, we completed the early redemption on $12.5 million in principal of a mortgage due June 2032, plus accrued and unpaid interest. As a result of the early redemption, we recognized a $4.0 million loss on extinguishment of debt during 2021. In January 2021, we completed the early redemption on all $950.0 million in principal amount of outstanding 3.250% notes due October 2022, plus accrued and unpaid interest. As a result of the early redemption, we recognized a $46.5 million loss on extinguishment of debt during 2021. In January 2020, we completed the early redemption on all $250.0 million in principal amount of outstanding 5.750% notes due January 2021, plus accrued and unpaid interest. As a result of the early redemption, we recognized a $9.8 million loss on extinguishment of debt during 2020. Equity in Income of Unconsolidated Entities Equity in income of unconsolidated entities for 2021 relates to three equity method investments that were acquired in our merger with VEREIT. There were no comparative investments during 2020 or 2019. Other Income, Net Beginning in 2021, certain miscellaneous non-recurring revenue has been reclassified from total revenue to other income, net in the consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income . Interest income from our money market accounts was higher for 2020 as compared to 2019, which is primarily due to higher average investment balances. Income Taxes Income taxes are for city and state income and franchise taxes, and for international income taxes accrued or paid by us and our subsidiaries. The increase in income taxes for 2021 and 2020 was primarily attributable to our increased volume of U.K. investments, which contributed to higher U.K. income taxes for both years. -58- Net Income Available to Common Stockholders The following summarizes our net income available to common stockholders (dollars in millions, except per share data): (1) All per share amounts are presented on a diluted per common share basis. The calculation to determine net income available to common stockholders includes provisions for impairment, gains from the sale of properties, and foreign currency gains and losses, which can vary from period to period based on timing and significantly impact net income available to the Company and available to common stockholders. Net income available to common stockholders in 2021 was primarily impacted by the following transactions: (i) a $97.2 million loss on extinguishment of debt, which primarily includes $46.5 million related to the January 2021 early redemption of the 3.250% notes due October 2022 recorded in the three months ended March 31, 2021 and $46.4 million related to the December 2021 early redemption of the 4.650% notes due August 2023 recorded in the three months ended December 31, 2021, (ii) $167.4 million of merger and integration-related costs related to our merger with VEREIT and spin-off of office properties to Orion Office REIT Inc., (iii) $39.0 million of provisions for impairment, and (iv) $14.7 million in net reserves recorded as a reduction of rental revenue. Net income available to common stockholders in 2020 was primarily impacted by the following transactions: (i) $147.2 million of provisions for impairment, (ii) $52.5 million in net reserves recorded as a reduction of rental revenue, (iii) a $9.8 million loss on extinguishment of debt due to the January 2020 early redemption of the 5.750% notes due January 2021, and (iv) a $3.5 million executive severance charge for our former CFO. For 2019, the only comparable charges were $40.2 million in provisions for impairment and $2.9 million in reserves recorded as a reduction of rental revenue. Adjusted Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization for Real Estate (Adjusted EBITDA re ) The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("Nareit") came to the conclusion that a Nareit-defined EBITDA metric for real estate companies (i.e., EBITDA for real estate, or EBITDA re ) would provide investors with a consistent measure to help make investment decisions among REITs. Our definition of “Adjusted EBITDA re ” is generally consistent with the Nareit definition, other than our adjustments to remove foreign currency and derivative gains and losses and executive severance charges (which is consistent with our previous calculations of "Adjusted EBITDA"). We define Adjusted EBITDA re , a non–GAAP financial measure, for the most recent quarter as earnings (net income) before (i) interest expense, including non-cash loss (gain) on swaps, (ii) income and franchise taxes, (iii) loss on extinguishment of debt, (iv) real estate depreciation and amortization, (v) provisions for impairment, (vi) merger and integration-related costs, (vii) gain on sales of real estate, (viii) foreign currency and derivative gains and losses, net (as described in the Adjusted Funds from Operations section), and (ix) our proportionate share of interest expense and real estate depreciation and amortization from unconsolidated entities. Our Adjusted EBITDA re may not be comparable to Adjusted EBITDA re reported by other companies or as defined by Nareit, and other companies may interpret or define Adjusted EBITDA re differently than we do. Management believes Adjusted EBITDA re to be a meaningful measure of a REIT’s performance because it is widely followed by industry analysts, lenders and investors. Management also believes the use of an annualized quarterly Adjusted EBITDA re metric, which we refer to as Annualized Adjusted EBITDA re , is meaningful because it represents the Company’s current earnings run rate for the period presented. Annualized Adjusted EBITDA re and Annualized Pro Forma Adjusted EBITDA re , as defined below, are also used to determine the vesting of performance share awards granted to executive officers. Annualized Adjusted EBITDA re should be considered along with, but not as an alternative to net income as a measure of our operating performance. We define Annualized Pro Forma Adjusted EBITDA re as Annualized Adjusted EBITDA re , subject to certain adjustments to incorporate operating income from properties we acquired or stabilized during the applicable quarter and to remove operating income from properties we disposed of during the applicable quarter, giving pro forma effect to all transactions as if they occurred at the beginning of the applicable period. We believe Annualized Pro Forma Adjusted EBITDA re is a useful non-GAAP supplemental measure, as it excludes properties that were no longer owned at the balance sheet date and includes the annualized rent from properties acquired during the quarter. Our ratios of net debt-to-Annualized Adjusted EBITDA re and net debt-to-Annualized Pro Forma Adjusted EBITDA re , which are used by management as a measure of leverage, are calculated as net debt (which we define as total debt per our consolidated balance sheet, -59- excluding deferred financing costs and net premiums and discounts, but including our proportionate share on debt from unconsolidated entities, less cash and cash equivalents), divided by annualized quarterly Adjusted EBITDA re and annualized Pro Forma Adjusted EBITDA re , respectively. The following table summarizes our Annualized Adjusted EBITDA re and Annualized Pro Forma Adjusted EBITDA re calculations for the periods indicated below (dollars in thousands): (1) Net income for the three months ended December 31, 2021 was negatively impacted by $827,000 of rent reserves recorded as reductions of rental revenue, of which $5.6 million was related to straight-line rent receivables, net of reserve reversals of $(4.8) million. Net income for the three months ended December 31, 2020 was negatively impacted by $18.1 million of rent reserves recorded as reductions of rental revenue, of which $3.3 million relates to straight-line rent. (2) We calculate Annualized Adjusted EBITDA re by multiplying the Quarterly Adjusted EBITDA re by four. (3) Net Debt is total debt per our consolidated balance sheet, excluding deferred financing costs and net premiums and discounts, but including our proportionate share on debt from unconsolidated entities, less cash and cash equivalents. (4) Net Debt/Annualized Adjusted EBITDA re was 6.0x for the three months ended December 31, 2021, 5.4x for the three months ended December 31, 2020, and 5.5x for the three months ended December 31, 2019. (5) During 2021, Net Debt was adjusted to exclude deferred financing costs and net premiums and discounts. Under the prior calculation of Net Debt, which included deferred financing costs and net premiums and discounts, Net Debt/Adjusted EBITDA re was 5.3x for the three months ended December 31, 2020, and Net Debt/Pro forma Adjusted EBITDA re was 5.2x for the three months ended December 31, 2020. The adjustment of Net Debt did not impact the calculations for the three months ended December 31, 2019, which were 5.5x for Net Debt/Adjusted EBITDA re and 5.2x for Net Debt/Pro forma Adjusted EBITDA re . The Annualized Pro Forma Adjustments consist of adjustments to incorporate operating income from properties we acquired or stabilized during the applicable quarter and to remove operating income from properties we disposed of during the applicable quarter, giving pro forma effect to all transactions as if they occurred at the beginning of the applicable period. For the three months ended December 31, 2021, the Annualized Pro Forma adjustments are inclusive of the effects of the merger. The Annualized Pro Forma Adjustments are consistent with the debt service coverage ratio calculated under financial covenants for our senior unsecured notes and bonds. The following table summarizes our Annualized Pro forma Adjusted EBITDA re calculation for the periods indicated below: -60- FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS AVAILABLE TO COMMON STOCKHOLDERS (FFO) AND NORMALIZED FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS AVAILABLE TO COMMON STOCKHOLDERS (Normalized FFO) The following summarizes our FFO and Normalized FFO (dollars in millions, except per share data): We define FFO, a non-GAAP measure, consistent with the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts' definition, as net income available to common stockholders, plus depreciation and amortization of real estate assets, plus provisions for impairments of depreciable real estate assets, and reduced by gains on property sales. We define Normalized FFO, a non-GAAP financial measure, as FFO excluding merger and integration-related costs related to our merger with VEREIT. (1) All per share amounts are presented on a diluted per common share basis. FFO and Normalized FFO for 2021, 2020, and 2019 were primarily impacted by the same transactions listed under "Net Income Available To Common Stockholders" on page 59. The following is a reconciliation of net income available to common stockholders (which we believe is the most comparable GAAP measure) to FFO and Normalized FFO. Also presented is information regarding distributions paid to common stockholders and the weighted average number of common shares used for the basic and diluted computation per share (in thousands, except per share amounts): -61- We consider FFO and Normalized FFO to be appropriate supplemental measures of a REIT’s operating performance as they are based on a net income analysis of property portfolio performance that adds back items such as depreciation and impairments for FFO, and adds back merger and integration-related costs, for Normalized FFO. The historical accounting convention used for real estate assets requires straight-line depreciation of buildings and improvements, which implies that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. Since real estate values historically rise and fall with market conditions, presentations of operating results for a REIT, using historical accounting for depreciation, could be less informative. -62- ADJUSTED FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS AVAILABLE TO COMMON STOCKHOLDERS (AFFO) The following summarizes our AFFO (dollars in millions, except per share data): We define AFFO, a non-GAAP measure, as FFO adjusted for unique revenue and expense items, which we believe are not as pertinent to the measurement of our ongoing operating performance. (1) All per share amounts are presented on a diluted per common share basis. AFFO during 2021 and 2020 was primarily impacted by reserves recorded as a reduction of rental revenue related to the COVID-19 pandemic. During the second half of 2021, reserves recorded as a reduction of rental revenue were partially offset by reserve reversals recorded as an increase to rental revenue where the accounting for recognition of rental revenue and straight-line rental revenue has been moved from the cash to the accrual basis. We consider AFFO to be an appropriate supplemental measure of our performance. Most companies in our industry use a similar measurement, but they may use the term “CAD” (for Cash Available for Distribution), “FAD” (for Funds Available for Distribution) or other terms. Our AFFO calculations may not be comparable to AFFO, CAD or FAD reported by other companies, and other companies may interpret or define such terms differently than we do. The following is a reconciliation of net income available to common stockholders (which we believe is the most comparable GAAP measure) to Normalized FFO and AFFO. Also presented is information regarding distributions paid to common stockholders and the weighted average number of common shares used for the basic and diluted computation per share (in thousands, except per share amounts): -63- (1) As of December 31, 2021, there was $58.7 million of uncollected rent deferred as a result of lease concessions we granted in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and recognized under the practical expedient provided by the FASB and $41.3 million of uncollected rent for which we have not granted a lease concession. (2) See reconciling items for Normalized FFO presented under “Funds from Operations Available to Common Stockholders (FFO) and Normalized Funds from Operations Available to Common Stockholders (Normalized FFO)." (3) The executive severance charge represents the incremental costs incurred upon our former CFO's departure in March 2020, consisting of $1.6 million of cash, $1.8 million of share-based compensation expense and $58,000 of professional fees. (4) Includes the amortization of premiums and discounts on notes payable and assumption of our mortgages payable, which are being amortized over the life of the applicable debt, and costs incurred and capitalized upon issuance and exchange of our notes payable, assumption of our mortgages payable and issuance of our term loans, which are also being amortized over the lives of the applicable debt. No costs associated with our credit facility agreements or annual fees paid to credit rating agencies have been included. (5) Straight-line payments from cross-currency swaps represent quarterly payments in U.S. dollars received by us from counterparties in exchange for associated foreign currency payments. These USD payments are fixed and determinable for the duration of the associated hedging transaction. (6) Includes adjustments allocable to noncontrolling interests, obligations related to financing lease liabilities, mark-to-market adjustments on investments and derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, and foreign currency gains and losses as a result of intercompany debt and remeasurement transactions. We believe the non-GAAP financial measure AFFO provides useful information to investors because it is a widely accepted industry measure of the operating performance of real estate companies that is used by industry analysts and investors who look at and compare those companies. In particular, AFFO provides an additional measure to compare the operating performance of different REITs without having to account for differing depreciation assumptions and other unique revenue and expense items which are not pertinent to measuring a particular company’s on-going operating performance. Therefore, we believe that AFFO is an appropriate supplemental performance metric, and that the most appropriate GAAP performance metric to which AFFO should be reconciled is net income available to common stockholders. -64- Presentation of the information regarding FFO, Normalized FFO, and AFFO is intended to assist the reader in comparing the operating performance of different REITs, although it should be noted that not all REITs calculate FFO, Normalized FFO, and AFFO in the same way, so comparisons with other REITs may not be meaningful. Furthermore, FFO, Normalized FFO, and AFFO are not necessarily indicative of cash flow available to fund cash needs and should not be considered as alternatives to net income as an indication of our performance. FFO, Normalized FFO, and AFFO should not be considered as alternatives to reviewing our cash flows from operating, investing, and financing activities. In addition, FFO, Normalized FFO, and AFFO should not be considered as measures of liquidity, our ability to make cash distributions, or our ability to pay interest payments. IMPACT OF INFLATION Leases generally provide for limited increases in rent as a result of fixed increases, increases in the consumer price index, or retail price index in the case of certain leases in the U.K. (typically subject to ceilings), or increases in the clients’ sales volumes. We expect that inflation will cause these lease provisions to result in rent increases over time. During times when inflation is greater than increases in rent, as provided for in the leases, rent increases may not keep up with the rate of inflation. Moreover, our use of net lease agreements tends to reduce our exposure to rising property expenses due to inflation because the client is responsible for property expenses. Inflation and increased costs may have an adverse impact on our clients if increases in their operating expenses exceed increases in revenue. IMPACT OF RECENT ACCOUNTING STANDARDS For information on the impact of new accounting standards on our business, see note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.