********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Our investors should consider the following risks that could affect us and our business.  Although we have tried to identify key factors, our investors need to be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future.  New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance.  Investors should consider carefully the following discussion of risks and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report, including “Forward-Looking Statements,” which are included in Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY If the level of drilling in the regions in which we operate declines substantially near our assets, our volumes and revenues could decline. Our gathering and transportation pipeline systems are dependent upon production from natural gas and crude oil wells, which naturally declines over time.  As a result, our cash flows associated with these wells may also decline over time.  In order to maintain or increase throughput levels on our gathering and transportation pipeline systems and the asset utilization rates at our processing and fractionation facilities, we must continually obtain new supplies.  Our ability to maintain or expand our businesses depends largely on the level of drilling and production by third parties in the regions in which we operate.  Our natural gas and NGL supply volumes may be impacted if producers curtail or redirect drilling and production activities.  Drilling and production are impacted by factors beyond our control, including: • demand and prices for natural gas, NGLs and crude oil; • producers’ access to capital; • producers’ finding and development costs of reserves; • producers’ ability to secure drilling and completion crews and equipment; • producers’ desire and ability to obtain necessary permits, drilling rights and surface access in a timely manner and on reasonable terms; • crude oil and associated natural gas field characteristics and production performance; and • capacity constraints and/or shut downs on the pipelines that transport crude oil, natural gas and NGLs from producing areas and our facilities. Commodity prices are subject to significant volatility.  Drilling and production activity levels may vary across our geographic areas; however, a prolonged period of low commodity prices may reduce drilling and production activities across all areas.  If we are not able to obtain new supplies to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing production or reductions in volumes because of competition, including increased competition due to industry consolidation, throughput on our gathering and transportation pipeline systems and the utilization rates of our processing and fractionation facilities would decline, which could affect adversely our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our operating results may be affected adversely by unfavorable economic and market conditions. In addition to impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic, uncertainty or adverse changes in economic conditions worldwide, in the United States, or in the economic regions in which we operate, could negatively affect the crude oil and natural gas markets, resulting in reduced demand and increased price competition for our services and products, or otherwise affect adversely our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.  Volatility in commodity prices may have an impact on many 22 of our suppliers and customers, which, in turn, could have a negative impact on their ability to meet their obligations to us.  Periods of severe volatility in equity and credit markets may disrupt our access to such markets, make it difficult to obtain financing necessary to expand facilities or acquire assets, increase financing costs and result in the imposition of restrictive financial covenants.  Also, economic conditions in the wake of the pandemic have included increasing inflation.  Inflationary pressures have resulted in, and may continue to result in, additional increases to the cost of our materials, services and personnel, which could increase our capital expenditures and operating costs.  Sustained levels of high inflation have caused the Federal Reserve System and other central banks to increase interest rates, which may cause the cost of capital to increase and depress economic growth, either of which, or the combination of both, could affect adversely our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The volatility of natural gas, crude oil and NGL prices could affect adversely our earnings and cash flows. Lower commodity prices could reduce crude oil, natural gas and NGL production, which could decrease the demand for our services.  Additionally, a significant portion of our revenues are derived from the sale of commodities that are received in conjunction with natural gas gathering and processing services, the transportation and storage of natural gas, and from the purchase and sale of NGLs and purity NGLs.  As commodity prices decline, we could be paid less for our commodities thereby reducing our cash flows.  Historically, commodity prices have been volatile and can change quickly.  For example, in March 2020, unsuccessful negotiations between the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and Russia regarding crude oil production cuts resulted in a price war between Saudi Arabia and Russia.  As a result, the global supply of crude oil significantly exceeded demand and led to a collapse in crude oil prices.  It is likely that commodity prices will continue to be volatile in the future. The prices we receive for our commodities are subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, the following: • overall domestic and global economic conditions and uncertainty; • changes in the supply of, and demand for, domestic and foreign energy, even if relatively minor; • market uncertainty; • the occurrence of wars and other geopolitical conditions impacting supply and demand for natural gas, NGLs and crude oil; • production decisions by other countries, and the failure of countries to abide by recent agreements relating to production decisions; • the availability and cost of third-party transportation, natural gas processing and fractionation capacity; • the level of consumer product demand and storage inventory levels; • ethane rejection; • weather conditions; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • speculation in the commodity futures markets; • the effects of imports and exports on the price of natural gas, crude oil, NGL and liquefied natural gas; • the effect of worldwide energy-conservation measures; • the impact of new supplies, new pipelines, processing and fractionation facilities on location price differentials; and • technology and improved efficiency impacting supply and demand for natural gas, NGLs and crude oil. These external factors and the volatile nature of the energy markets make it difficult to reliably estimate future prices of commodities and the impact commodity price fluctuations have on our customers and their need for our services, which could affect adversely our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Increasing attention to ESG issues, including climate change, may impact our business. There are increasing expectations that companies across all industries address ESG issues, including climate change.  Changes in regulatory policies, public sentiment or widespread adoption of technologies that aim to address climate change through reducing GHG emissions may result in a reduction in the demand for hydrocarbon products, restrictions on their use or increased use of alternative energy sources.  These changes could reduce the demand for our services, impacting our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In addition, increasing attention to climate change has resulted in an increased likelihood of governmental investigations, regulation, shareholder activism and private litigation, which could increase our costs or otherwise affect adversely our business.  For example, the SEC has announced its plans to propose new climate change disclosure requirements.  While the 23 form those requirements may take are not final, we may face increased costs associated with complying with any new climate disclosure rules. Certain investors are increasingly focused on ESG issues, including climate change.  Further, organizations that provide information to investors on corporate governance and related matters have also increased their focus on ESG issues and have developed ratings processes for evaluating companies on various ESG initiatives.  Unfavorable ESG ratings may lead to increased negative investor sentiment toward us or midstream companies in general.  Due to climate change concerns, some investors may choose to either not invest, or to reduce their investment, in companies that explore for, produce, process, transport or sell products derived from hydrocarbons.  If this negative investor sentiment increases, we may see reduced demand for our securities, which could impact our liquidity or the value of our securities.  Additionally, certain large institutional lenders have announced their own policies to meet publicly announced climate commitments, which often involve commitments to shift lending activities in the energy sector to meet GHG emissions goals.  As a result, certain institutional lenders may impose additional requirements on us, or decide not to lend to us, based on ESG concerns, which could adversely affect our access to capital on reasonable terms or at all and, as a result, our financial condition.  To the extent financial markets view climate change and emissions of GHGs as a financial risk, this could also negatively affect our ability to access capital or cause us to receive less favorable terms and conditions in future financings. In September 2021, we announced a companywide absolute GHG emissions reduction target of 2.2 million metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents from our combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by 2030. The target represents a 30% reduction in combined operational Scope 1 and location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions attributable to ONEOK assets as of December 31.  To the extent that the potential pathways we have identified to achieve this emissions reduction target are not available to us, or to the extent we otherwise are unable to make progress toward other ESG-related targets we may establish, we may face additional costs to meet these targets, or we may fail to meet them, which could negatively impact our business and reputation. We may be subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change. The threat of global climate change may create physical and financial risks to our business.  Some of our customers’ energy needs vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature.  For residential customers, heating and cooling represent their largest energy use.  To the extent weather conditions may be affected by climate change, customers’ energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of any changes.  Increased energy use due to weather changes may require us to invest in more pipelines and other infrastructure to serve increased demand.  A decrease in energy use due to weather changes may affect our financial condition, through decreased revenues.  Extreme weather conditions in general require more system backup, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stresses, including damage to our assets or service interruptions.  Weather conditions outside of our operating territory could also have an impact on our revenues.  Severe weather impacts our operating territories primarily through hurricanes, thunderstorms, tornados, floods, freezing temperatures and snow or ice storms.  To the extent the severity or frequency of extreme weather events increases, this could increase our cost of providing services, including the cost of insurance, and decrease the availability of certain insurance coverages.  We may not be able to pass on the higher costs to our customers or recover all costs related to mitigating these physical risks. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions, which could affect adversely our business and for which we may not be adequately insured. Our operations are subject to all the risks and hazards typically associated with the operation of natural gas and NGL gathering, transportation and distribution pipelines, storage facilities and processing and fractionation facilities, which include, but are not limited to, leaks, pipeline ruptures, damage by third parties, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes and the performance of facilities below expected levels of capacity and efficiency.  For example, on July 9, 2022, a fire occurred at our 210 MBbl/d Medford, Oklahoma, natural gas liquids fractionation facility.  Other operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions include adverse weather conditions (including extreme cold weather), infectious disease including a pandemic, cybersecurity attacks, geopolitical reactions, accidents, explosions, fires, the collision of equipment with our pipeline facilities (for example, this may occur if a third party were to perform excavation or construction work near our facilities) and catastrophic events such as tornados, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods and other similar events beyond our control.  Similar operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions may also impact our producers or suppliers; for example, extreme cold weather can result in supply reductions from producer wellhead freeze-offs, as well as power curtailments or outages.  Further, the United States government warned that energy assets, specifically the nation’s pipeline infrastructure, may be targets of terrorist attacks.  An act of terrorism could target our facilities, those of our suppliers or customers or those of other pipelines.  A casualty occurrence may result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage or environmental damage.  The occurrence of operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions could affect adversely our business results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 24 Premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially, and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage.  Consequently, we may not be able to renew existing insurance policies or purchase other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.  Insurance proceeds may not be adequate to cover all liabilities or incurred costs and losses or lost earnings.  Further, we are not fully insured against all risks inherent to our business.  If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could affect adversely our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.  Further, the proceeds of any such insurance may not be paid in a timely manner. Continued development of supply sources outside of our operating regions could impact demand for our services. Production areas outside of our operating regions may compete with natural gas and NGL supply originating in production areas connected to our systems, which may cause natural gas and NGLs in supply areas connected to our systems to be diverted to markets other than our traditional market areas and may affect capacity utilization adversely on our pipeline systems and our ability to renew or replace existing contracts.  In our Natural Gas Gathering and Processing segment, the development of reserves could move drilling rigs from our current service areas to other areas, which may reduce demand for our services.  In our Natural Gas Pipelines segment, the displacement of natural gas originating in supply areas connected to our pipeline systems by supply sources that are closer to the end-use markets could reduce demand for our services.  Either of these possibilities could result in lower revenues, which could affect adversely our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We do not hedge fully against commodity price risk or interest rate risk, including commodity price changes, seasonal price differentials, product price differentials or location price differentials.  This could result in decreased revenues, increased costs and lower margins, affecting adversely our results of operations. Certain of our businesses are exposed to market risk and the impact of market fluctuations in natural gas, NGLs and crude oil prices.  Market risk refers to the risk of loss of future cash flows and earnings arising from adverse changes in commodity prices.  Our primary commodity price exposures arise from: • the value of the commodities sold under fee with POP contracts of which we retain a portion of the sales proceeds; • the price differentials between the individual purity NGLs with respect to our NGL transportation and fractionation agreements; • the location price differentials in the price of natural gas and NGLs; • the seasonal price differentials in natural gas and NGLs related to our storage operations; • the price risk related to electric costs to operate our facilities; and • the fuel costs and the value of the retained fuel in-kind in our natural gas pipelines and storage operations. To manage the risk from market price fluctuations in natural gas, NGLs, crude oil and electricity prices, we may use derivative instruments such as swaps, futures, forwards and options.  However, we do not hedge fully against commodity price changes, and we therefore retain some exposure to market risk.  Further, hedging instruments that are used to reduce our exposure to interest-rate fluctuations could expose us to risk of financial loss where we may contract for fixed-rate swap instruments to hedge variable-rate instruments and the fixed rate exceeds the variable rate.  Finally, hedging arrangements for forecasted sales and purchases are used to reduce our exposure to commodity price fluctuations and may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive if market prices for natural gas, crude oil and NGLs differ from the stated price in the hedge instrument for these commodities. A breach of information security, including a cybersecurity attack, or failure of one or more key information technology or operational systems, or those of third parties, may affect adversely our operations, financial results or reputation. Our businesses are dependent upon our operational systems to process a large amount of data and complex transactions.  The various uses of these information technology systems, networks and services include, but are not limited to: • controlling our plants and pipelines with industrial control systems including Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition; • collecting and storing customer, employee, investor and other stakeholder information and data; • processing transactions; • summarizing and reporting results of operations; • hosting, processing and sharing confidential and proprietary research, business plans and financial information; • complying with regulatory, legal, financial or tax requirements; • providing data security; and • other processes necessary to manage our business. 25 If any of our systems are damaged, fail to function properly or otherwise become unavailable, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them and may experience loss or corruption of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to perform critical functions, which could affect adversely our business and results of operations.  Our financial results could also be affected adversely if our operational systems fail as a result of an inadvertent error or by deliberate tampering with or manipulation of our operational systems.  In addition, dependence upon automated systems may further increase the risk that operational system flaws or employee or third-party tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. Due to increased technology advances and an increase in remote work arrangements, we have become more reliant on technology to help increase efficiency in our businesses.  We use software to help manage and operate our businesses, and this may subject us to increased risks.  According to experts, there has been a rise in the number and sophistication of cyberattacks on companies’ network and information systems by both state-sponsored and criminal organizations and, as a result, the risks associated with such an event continue to increase.  A significant failure, compromise, breach or interruption in our systems, or those of our vendors, could result in a disruption of our operations, physical or environmental damages, customer dissatisfaction, damage to our reputation and a loss of customers or revenues.  If any such failure, interruption or similar event results in the improper disclosure of information maintained in our information systems and networks or those of our vendors, including personnel, customer and vendor information, we could also be subject to liability under relevant contractual obligations and laws and regulations protecting personal data and privacy.  Efforts by us and our vendors to develop, implement and maintain security measures may not be successful in anticipating, detecting or preventing these events from occurring, due in part to attackers’ ever-changing methods and efforts to conceal their activities, and any network and information systems-related events could require us to expend significant resources to identify, assess and remedy such events.  Cybersecurity, physical security and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our enterprise, information systems and data from attack, damage or unauthorized access and to identify and appropriately report cyberattacks, remain a priority for us.  Although we believe that we have robust information security procedures and other safeguards in place, including sufficient insurance, as cyberthreats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance our information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. Cyberattacks against us or others in our industry could result in additional regulations or cumbersome contractual obligations.  Current efforts by the federal government, such as the Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity executive order, and the TSA security directives issued in May and July 2021, and July 2022, have utilized significant internal and external resources, and any potential future statutes, regulations or orders could lead to further increased regulatory compliance costs, insurance coverage costs or capital expenditures.  We cannot predict the potential impact to our business resulting from additional regulations. Growing our business by constructing new pipelines and facilities or making modifications to our existing facilities subjects us to construction risk and supply risks, should adequate natural gas or NGL supply be unavailable upon completion of the facilities. To expand our business, we regularly construct new and modify or expand existing pipelines and gathering, processing, storage and fractionation facilities.  The construction and modification of these facilities may involve the following risks: • projects may require significant capital expenditures, which may exceed our estimates, and involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political, legal and weather-related uncertainties; • projects may increase demand for labor, materials (which may be even more difficult to obtain due to supply chain constraints) and rights of way, which may, in turn, affect our costs and schedule; • we may be unable to obtain new rights of way or permits to connect our systems to supply or downstream markets; • if we undertake these projects, we may not be able to complete them on schedule or at the budgeted cost; • our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project.  For instance, if we build a new pipeline, the construction will occur over an extended period of time, and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project; • we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in production or downstream demand in which anticipated growth does not materialize; • opposition from environmental and social groups, landowners, tribal groups, local groups and other advocates could result in organized protests, attempts to block or sabotage our construction activities or operations, intervention in regulatory or administrative proceedings involving our assets, or lawsuits or other actions designed to prevent, disrupt or delay the construction or operation of our assets; 26 • we may be required to rely on third parties downstream of our facilities to have available capacity for our delivered natural gas or NGLs, which may not be operational; and • inflationary pressure could increase our costs for construction materials or labor. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough natural gas or NGLs to achieve our expected investment return, which could affect adversely our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Estimates of hydrocarbon reserves may be inaccurate, which could result in lower than anticipated volumes. We may not be able to accurately estimate hydrocarbon reserves and production volumes expected to be delivered to us for a variety of reasons, including the unavailability of sufficiently detailed information and unanticipated changes in producers’ expected drilling schedules.  Accordingly, we may not have accurate estimates of total reserves committed to our assets, the anticipated life of such reserves or the expected volumes to be produced from those reserves.  In such event, if we are unable to secure additional sources, then the volumes that we gather, process, fractionate and transport in the future could be less than anticipated.  A decline in such volumes could affect adversely our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, and we lease certain facilities and equipment, which could disrupt our operations. We do not own all of the land on which certain of our pipelines and facilities are located, and we are, therefore, subject to the risk of increased costs to maintain necessary land use.  We obtain the rights to construct and operate certain of our pipelines and related facilities on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time.  Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts on acceptable terms or increased costs to renew such rights, could affect adversely our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Measurement adjustments on our pipeline system may be impacted materially by changes in estimation, type of commodity and other factors. Natural gas and NGL measurement adjustments occur as part of the normal operating conditions associated with our assets.  The quantification and resolution of measurement adjustments are complicated by several factors including: (i) the significant quantities ( i.e. , thousands) of measurement equipment that we use across our natural gas and NGL systems, primarily around our gathering and processing assets; (ii) varying qualities of natural gas in the streams gathered and processed through our systems and the mixed nature of NGLs gathered and fractionated; and (iii) variances in measurement that are inherent in metering technologies and standards.  Each of these factors may contribute to measurement adjustments that may occur on our systems, which could affect adversely our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In the competition for supply, we may have significant levels of excess capacity on our natural gas and NGL pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage assets. Our natural gas and NGL pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage assets compete with other pipelines, processing, fractionation and storage assets for natural gas and NGL supply delivered to the markets we serve.  As a result of competition, we may have significant levels of uncontracted or discounted capacity on our assets, which could affect adversely our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Many of our assets have been in service for several decades. Many of our assets are designed as long-lived assets.  Over time the age of these assets could result in increased maintenance or remediation expenditures and an increased risk of product releases and associated costs and liabilities.  Any significant increase in these expenditures, costs or liabilities could affect adversely our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our operating cash flows are derived partially from cash distributions we receive from our unconsolidated affiliates. Our operating cash flows are derived partially from cash distributions we receive from our unconsolidated affiliates, as discussed in Note N of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report.  The amount of cash that our unconsolidated affiliates can distribute principally depends upon the amount of cash flows these affiliates generate from their respective operations, which may fluctuate from quarter to quarter.  We may be unable to unilaterally determine the cash 27 distribution policies of our unconsolidated affiliates.  This may contribute to us not having sufficient available cash each quarter to continue paying dividends at the current levels. We may be unable to cause our joint ventures to take or not to take certain actions unless some or all of our joint-venture participants agree. We participate in several joint ventures.  Due to the nature of some of these arrangements, each participant in these joint ventures has made substantial investments in the joint venture and, accordingly, has required that the relevant charter documents contain certain features designed to provide each participant with the opportunity to participate in the management of the joint venture and to protect its investment, as well as any other assets that may be substantially dependent on or otherwise affected by the activities of that joint venture.  These participation and protective features customarily include a corporate governance structure that requires at least a majority-in-interest vote to authorize many basic activities and requires a greater voting interest (sometimes up to 100%) to authorize more significant activities.  Examples of these more significant activities are large expenditures or contractual commitments, the construction or acquisition of assets, borrowing money or otherwise raising capital, transactions with affiliates of a joint-venture participant, litigation and transactions not in the ordinary course of business, among others.  Thus, without the concurrence of joint-venture participants with enough voting interests, we may be unable to cause any of our joint ventures to take or not to take certain actions, even though those actions may be in the best interest of us or the particular joint venture. Moreover, subject to contractual restrictions, any joint-venture owner generally may sell, transfer or otherwise modify its ownership interest in a joint venture, whether in a transaction involving third parties or the other joint-venture owners.  Any such transaction could result in us being required to partner with different or additional parties who may have business interests different from ours. We do not operate all of our joint-venture assets nor do we employ directly all of the persons responsible for providing administrative, operating and management services.  This reliance on others to operate joint-venture assets and to provide other services could affect adversely our business and results of operations. We rely on others to provide administrative, operating and management services for certain of our joint-venture assets.  We have a limited ability to control the operations and the associated costs of such operations.  The success of these operations depends on a number of factors that are outside our control, including the competence and financial resources of the operator or an outsourced service provider.  We may have to contract elsewhere for outsourced services, which may cost more than we are currently paying.  In addition, we may not be able to obtain the same level or kind of service or retain or receive the services in a timely manner, which may impact our ability to perform under our contracts and affect adversely our business and results of operations. The COVID-19 pandemic has affected adversely, and could further affect adversely, our results of operations. The COVID-19 pandemic led to global and regional economic disruption, volatility in the financial markets and a weakened commodity price environment.  The outbreak and government measures taken in response, including extended quarantines, closures and reduced operations of businesses, had a significant adverse impact, both direct and indirect, on our business and the economy. Uncertainty remains regarding the duration of global impacts due to COVID-19.  This uncertainty, and the occurrence of these events and measures taken in response, could further affect adversely our results of operations by, among other things, reducing demand for the services we provide, impacting our supply chains and the availability and efficiency of our workforce, including our executive officers, creating operational challenges and impacting our ability to access capital markets.  Additionally, in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, inflationary pressures have increased in the U.S. and globally.  The degree to which the pandemic further impacts our business and results of operations will depend on future developments beyond our control, including the success of vaccination efforts and the effectiveness of such vaccines against future mutations of the COVID-19 virus, how quickly and to what extent economic and operating conditions resume to pre-COVID-19 levels, and the severity and duration of reduced global and regional economic activity resulting from the pandemic. 28 RISK FACTORS RELATED TO REGULATION Increased regulation of exploration and production activities, including hydraulic fracturing, well setbacks and disposal of wastewater, could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new crude oil and natural gas wells. The crude oil and natural gas industry is relying increasingly on supplies from nonconventional sources, such as shale and tight sands.  Natural gas extracted from these sources frequently requires hydraulic fracturing, which involves the pressurized injection of water, sand and chemicals into a geologic formation to stimulate crude oil and natural gas production.  Legislation or regulations placing restrictions on exploration and production activities, including hydraulic fracturing and disposal of wastewater, could result in operational delays, increased operating costs and additional regulatory burdens on exploration and production operators.  Any of these factors could reduce their production of unprocessed natural gas and, in turn, affect adversely our revenues and results of operations by decreasing the volumes of natural gas and NGLs gathered, treated, processed, fractionated and transported on our or our joint ventures’ assets. Our business is subject to regulatory oversight and potential penalties. The energy industry historically has been subject to heavy state and federal regulation that extends to many aspects of our businesses and operations, including: • change to federal, state and local taxation; • regulatory approval and review of certain of our rates, operating terms and conditions of service; • the types of services we may offer our counterparties; • construction and operation of new facilities; • the integrity, safety and security of facilities and operations; • acquisition, extension or abandonment of services or facilities; • reporting and information posting requirements; • maintenance of accounts and records; and • relationships with affiliate companies involved in all aspects of the natural gas and energy businesses. Compliance with these requirements can be costly and burdensome.  Future changes to laws, regulations and policies in these areas may impair our ability to compete for business or to recover costs and may increase the cost and burden of our operations.  We cannot guarantee that state or federal regulators will not challenge our safety practices or will authorize any projects or acquisitions that we may propose in the future.  Moreover, there can be no guarantee that, if granted, any such authorizations will be made in a timely manner or will be free from potentially burdensome conditions. Under the Natural Gas Act, which is applicable to our interstate natural gas pipelines, and the Interstate Commerce Act, which is applicable to our interstate NGL pipelines, our interstate transportation rates are regulated by the FERC and many changes to our pipeline tariffs must be approved in a regulatory proceeding.  Additionally, shippers, the FERC and/or state regulatory agencies may investigate our tariff rates which could result in, among other things, our being ordered to reduce rates or make refunds to shippers. Failure to comply with all applicable state or federal statutes, rules and regulations and orders could bring substantial penalties and fines. We may face significant costs to comply with the regulation of GHG emissions. GHG emissions in the midstream industry originate primarily from combustion engine exhaust, heater exhaust and fugitive methane gas emissions.  International, federal, regional and/or state legislative and/or regulatory initiatives may attempt to control or limit GHG emissions, including initiatives directed at issues associated with climate change.  Various federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced to regulate the emission of GHGs, particularly carbon dioxide and methane, and the United States Supreme Court has ruled that carbon dioxide is a pollutant subject to regulation by the EPA.  In addition, there have been international efforts seeking legally binding reductions in emissions of GHGs. We believe it is likely that future governmental legislation and/or regulation on the federal, state and regional levels, may further require us to limit GHG emissions associated with our operations, pay additional fees associated with our GHG emissions or purchase allowances for such emissions.  For example, the Inflation Reduction Act will require the payment of “Methane Fees” for specific facilities that exceed GHG emission and/or methane intensity thresholds beginning in 2024.  This and other legislative and/or regulatory initiatives could make some of our activities uneconomic to maintain or operate.  However, we cannot predict precisely what form these future legislative and/or regulatory initiatives will take, the stringency of 29 such initiatives, when they will become effective or the impact on our capital expenditures, competitive position and results of operations.  Further, we may not be able to pass on the higher costs to our customers or recover all costs related to complying with GHG legislative and/or regulatory requirements.  Our future results of operations, financial position or cash flows could be affected adversely if such costs are not recovered or otherwise passed on to our customers. Our operations are subject to federal and state laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, which may expose us to significant costs and liabilities.  Increased litigation and activism challenging oil and gas development as well as changes to and/or increased penalties from the enforcement of laws, regulations and policies could impact adversely our business. The risk of incurring substantial environmental costs and liabilities is inherent in our business.  Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment.  Examples of these laws include: • the Clean Air Act and analogous state laws that impose obligations related to air emissions; • the Clean Water Act and analogous state laws that impose requirements related to activities in and around certain state and federal waters, including requirements related to discharge of wastewater from our facilities into state and federal waters; • the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) and analogous state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent waste for disposal; • the Endangered Species Act and analogous state laws that impose obligations related to protection of threatened and endangered species; and • the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and analogous state laws that impose requirements for the handling and discharge of solid and hazardous waste from our facilities. Various federal and state governmental authorities, including the EPA, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them.  Violators are subject to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions or both.  Joint and several, strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault under the CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws for the remediation of contaminated areas. There is an inherent risk of incurring environmental costs and liabilities in our business due to our handling of the products we gather, transport, process and store, air emissions related to our operations, past industry operations and waste disposal practices, some of which may be material.  Private parties, including the owners of properties through which our pipeline systems pass, may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage arising from our operations.  Some sites we operate are located near current or former third-party hydrocarbon storage and processing operations, and there is a risk that contamination has migrated from those sites to ours.  In addition, increasingly strict laws, regulations and enforcement policies could increase significantly our compliance costs, penalties and other cost associated with any alleged noncompliance, and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary; some of these costs could be material and could adversely affect our business, results of operation, financial position and cash flows.  Our insurance may not cover all of these environmental risks, and there are also limits on coverage.  Additional information is included under Item 1, Business, under “Regulatory, Environmental and Safety Matters” and in Note O of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report. Increased litigation and activism challenging oil and gas development as well as changes to and/or more aggressive enforcement of laws, regulations and policies could impact our business.  These actions could, among other things, impact our customers’ activities, our existing permits, our ability to obtain permits for new development projects and public perception of our company, which could affect adversely our business, results of operations, financial position or cash flows. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO FINANCING OUR BUSINESS Changes in interest rates could affect adversely our business. We use both fixed and variable rate debt, and we are exposed to market risk due to the floating interest rates on our short-term borrowings.  Our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be affected adversely by significant fluctuations in interest rates. 30 Any reduction in our credit ratings could affect adversely our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our long-term debt has been assigned an investment-grade credit rating of “Baa3” by Moody’s and “BBB” by both S&P and Fitch.  Our commercial paper program has been assigned an investment-grade credit rating of Prime-3, A-2 and F2 by Moody’s, S&P and Fitch, respectively.  We cannot provide assurance that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by these credit rating agencies.  If these agencies were to downgrade our long-term debt or our commercial paper rating, particularly below investment grade, our borrowing costs could increase, which would affect adversely our financial results, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease.  Ratings from these agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities.  Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Our indebtedness and guarantee obligations could impair our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our obligations. As of December 31, 2022, we had total indebtedness of $13.6 billion.  Our indebtedness and guarantee obligations could have significant consequences.  For example, they could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to senior notes and other indebtedness due to the increased debt-service obligations, which could, in turn, result in an event of default on such other indebtedness or the senior notes; • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general business purposes; • diminish our ability to withstand a downturn in our business or the economy; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to debt-service payments, reducing the availability of cash for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends or general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that have proportionately less debt and fewer guarantee obligations. We are not prohibited under the indentures governing the senior notes from incurring additional indebtedness, but our debt agreements do subject us to certain operational limitations summarized in the next paragraph.  If we incur significant additional indebtedness, it could worsen the negative consequences mentioned above and could affect adversely our ability to repay our other indebtedness. Our $2.5 Billion Credit Agreement contains provisions that restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities.  For example, our $2.5 Billion Credit Agreement contains provisions that, among other things, limit our ability to make material changes to the nature of our business, merge, consolidate or dispose of all or substantially all of our assets, grant liens and security interests on our assets, engage in transactions with affiliates or make restricted payments, including dividends.  It also requires us to maintain certain financial ratios, which limit the amount of additional indebtedness we can incur, as described in the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in this Annual Report.  These restrictions could result in higher costs of borrowing and impair our ability to generate additional cash.  Future financing agreements we may enter into may contain similar or more restrictive covenants. If we are unable to meet our debt-service obligations or comply with financial covenants, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets.  We may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. An event of default may require us to offer to repurchase certain of our and ONEOK Partners’ senior notes or may impair our ability to access capital. The indentures governing certain of our and ONEOK Partners’ senior notes include an event of default upon the acceleration of other indebtedness of $15 million or more for certain of our senior notes or $100 million or more for certain of our and ONEOK Partners’ senior notes.  Such events of default would entitle the trustee or the holders of 25% in aggregate principal amount of our and ONEOK Partners’ outstanding senior notes to declare those senior notes immediately due and payable in full.  We may not have sufficient cash on hand to repurchase and repay any accelerated senior notes, which may cause us to borrow money under our credit facility or seek alternative financing sources to finance the repurchases and repayment.  We could also face 31 difficulties accessing capital or our borrowing costs could increase, impacting our ability to obtain financing for acquisitions or capital expenditures, to refinance indebtedness and to fulfill our debt obligations. The right to receive payments on our outstanding debt securities and subsidiary guarantees is unsecured and will be effectively subordinated to any future secured indebtedness as well as to any existing and future indebtedness of our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the senior notes. Although ONEOK Partners and the Intermediate Partnership have guaranteed our debt securities, the guarantees are subject to release under certain circumstances, and we have subsidiaries that are not guarantors.  In those cases, the debt securities effectively are subordinated to the claims of all creditors, including trade creditors and tort claimants, of our subsidiaries that are not guarantors.  In the event of the insolvency, bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or winding up of the business of a subsidiary that is not a guarantor, creditors of that subsidiary would generally have the right to be paid in full before any distribution is made to us or the holders of the debt securities. A court may use fraudulent conveyance considerations to avoid or subordinate the cross guarantees of our and ONEOK Partners’ indebtedness. ONEOK, ONEOK Partners and the Intermediate Partnership have cross guarantees in place for our and ONEOK Partners’ indebtedness.  A court may use fraudulent conveyance laws to subordinate or avoid the cross guarantees of certain of our and ONEOK Partners’ indebtedness.  It is also possible that under certain circumstances, a court could avoid or subordinate the guarantor’s guarantee of our and ONEOK Partners’ indebtedness in favor of the guarantor’s other debts or liabilities to the extent that the court determined either of the following were true at the time the guarantor issued the guarantee: • the guarantor incurred the guarantee with the intent to hinder, delay or defraud any of its present or future creditors or the guarantor contemplated insolvency with a design to favor one or more creditors to the total or partial exclusion of others; or • the guarantor did not receive fair consideration or reasonable equivalent value for issuing the guarantee and, at the time it issued the guarantee, the guarantor: –     was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of the issuance of the guarantee; –     was engaged or about to engage in a business or transaction for which its remaining assets constituted unreasonably small capital; or –     intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they matured. The measure of insolvency for purposes of the foregoing will vary depending upon the law of the relevant jurisdiction.  Generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent for purposes of the foregoing if: • the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, were greater than the fair saleable value of all of its assets at a fair valuation; • the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or • it could not pay its debts as they become due. Among other things, a legal challenge of the cross guarantees of our and ONEOK Partners’ indebtedness on fraudulent conveyance grounds may focus on the benefits, if any, realized by the guarantor as a result of our and ONEOK Partners’ issuance of such debt.  To the extent the guarantor’s guarantee of our and ONEOK Partners’ indebtedness is avoided as a result of fraudulent conveyance or held unenforceable for any other reason, the holders of such debt would cease to have any claim in respect of the guarantee. GENERAL RISK FACTORS Mergers and acquisitions that appear to be accretive may nevertheless reduce our cash from operations on a per-share basis. Any merger or acquisition involves potential risks that may include, among other things: • inaccurate assumptions about volumes, revenues and costs, including potential synergies; • an inability to integrate successfully the businesses we acquire; • decrease in our liquidity as a result of our using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the acquisition; 32 • a significant increase in our interest expense and/or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance the acquisition; • the assumption of unknown liabilities for which we are not indemnified, our indemnity is inadequate or our insurance policies may exclude from coverage; • an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the acquired business and assets; • limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; • inaccurate assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; • the diversion of management’s and employees’ attention from other business concerns; • unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; • increased regulatory burdens; • customer or key employee losses at an acquired business; and • increased regulatory requirements. If we consummate any future mergers or acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and investors will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of our resources to future acquisitions. Holders of our common stock may receive dividends that vary from anticipated amounts, or no dividends at all. We may not have sufficient cash each quarter to pay dividends or maintain current or expected levels of dividends.  The actual amount of cash we pay in the form of dividends may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and will depend on various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including our working capital needs, our ability to borrow, the restrictions contained in our indentures and credit facility, our debt-service requirements and the cost of acquisitions, if any.  A failure either to pay dividends or to pay dividends at expected levels could result in a loss of investor confidence, reputational damage and a decrease in the value of our stock price. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers or counterparties, and our credit-risk management may not be adequate to protect against such risk. We are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by our customers and counterparties.  Our customers or counterparties may experience rapid deterioration of their financial condition as a result of changing market conditions, commodity prices or financial difficulties that could impact their creditworthiness or ability to pay us for our services.  We assess the creditworthiness of our customers and counterparties and obtain collateral or contractual terms as we deem appropriate.  We cannot, however, predict to what extent our business may be impacted by deteriorating market or financial conditions, including possible declines in our customers’ and counterparties’ creditworthiness.  Our customers and counterparties may not perform or adhere to our existing or future contractual arrangements.  To the extent our customers and counterparties are in financial distress or commence bankruptcy proceedings, contracts with them may be subject to renegotiation or rejection under applicable provisions of the United States Bankruptcy Code.  If our risk-management policies and procedures fail to assess adequately the creditworthiness of existing or future customers and counterparties, any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers and counterparties due to inability or unwillingness to perform or adhere to contractual arrangements could affect adversely our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We are connected to market areas located in the Mid-Continent, Rocky Mountain, Permian Basin, Midwest markets, including Chicago, Illinois, and Gulf Coast regions of the U.S.  Our counterparties are primarily major integrated and independent exploration and production, pipeline, marketing and petrochemical companies and natural gas and electric utilities.  Therefore, our counterparties may be similarly affected by changes in economic, regulatory or other factors that may affect our overall credit risk. A shortage of skilled labor may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity and competitive costs. Our operations require skilled and experienced workers with proficiency in multiple tasks.  In recent years, a shortage of workers trained in various skills associated with the midstream energy business has, at times, caused us to conduct certain operations without full staff, thus hiring outside resources, which may decrease productivity and increase costs.  This shortage of trained workers is the result of experienced workers reaching retirement age and increased competition for workers in certain areas, combined with the challenges of attracting new, qualified workers to the midstream energy industry.  This shortage of skilled labor could continue over an extended period.  If the shortage of experienced labor continues or worsens, it could affect adversely our labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand operations in the event there is an increase in the demand for our services and products, which could affect adversely our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 33 Our employees or directors may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including noncompliance with regulatory standards and requirements. As with all companies, we are exposed to the risk of employee fraud or other misconduct.  Our Board of Directors has adopted a code of business conduct and ethics that applies to our directors, officers (including our principal executive and financial officers, principal accounting officer, controllers and other persons performing similar functions) and all other employees.  We require all directors, officers and employees to adhere to our code of business conduct and ethics in addressing the legal and ethical issues encountered in conducting their work for our company.  Our code of business conduct and ethics requires, among other things, that our directors, officers and employees avoid conflicts of interest, comply with all applicable laws and other legal requirements, conduct business in an honest and ethical manner and otherwise act with integrity and in our company’s best interest.  All directors, officers and employees are required to report any conduct that they believe to be an actual or apparent violation of our code of business conduct and ethics.  However, it is not always possible to identify and deter misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to comply with such laws or regulations.  If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could affect adversely our reputation, business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. An impairment of goodwill, long-lived assets, including intangible assets, and equity-method investments could reduce our earnings. Goodwill is recorded when the purchase price of a business exceeds the fair market value of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets.  GAAP requires us to test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired.  Long-lived assets, including intangible assets with finite useful lives, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.  For the investments we account for under the equity method, the impairment test considers whether the fair value of the equity investment as a whole, not the underlying net assets, has declined and whether that decline is other than temporary.  For example, if a low commodity price environment persisted for a prolonged period, it could result in lower volumes delivered to our systems and impairments of our assets or equity-method investments.  If we determine that an impairment is indicated, we would be required to take an immediate noncash charge to earnings with a correlative effect on equity and balance sheet leverage as measured by consolidated debt to total capitalization. For further discussion of impairments of goodwill, long-lived assets and equity-method investments, see Notes A, E, F, and N, respectively, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report. The cost of providing pension and postretirement health care benefits to eligible employees and qualified retirees is subject to changes in pension fund values and changing demographics and may increase. We have a defined benefit pension plan for certain employees and former employees, which closed to new participants in 2005, and postretirement welfare plans that provide postretirement medical and life insurance benefits to certain employees hired prior to 2017 who retire with at least five years of full-time service.  The cost of providing these benefits to eligible current and former employees is subject to changes in the market value of our pension and postretirement benefit plan assets, changing demographics, including longer life expectancy of plan participants and their beneficiaries and changes in health care costs.  For further discussion of our defined benefit pension plan and postretirement welfare plans, see Note L of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report. Any sustained declines in equity markets and reductions in bond yields may affect adversely the value of our pension and postretirement benefit plan assets.  In these circumstances, additional cash contributions to our pension plans may be required, which could affect adversely our business, financial condition and cash flows. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report accurately our financial results or prevent fraud.  As a result, current and potential holders of our equity and debt securities could lose confidence in our financial reporting. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company.  We cannot be certain that our efforts to maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to continue to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  Any failure to maintain effective internal 34 controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations.  Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our equity, our access to capital markets and the cost of capital.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with Part I, Item 1, Business, our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS Please refer to the “Financial Results and Operating Information” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” sections of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Annual Report for additional information. Market Conditions - We experienced earnings growth in 2022, compared with 2021, due primarily to increased producer activity across our operations, higher realized commodity prices, net of hedging and higher average fee rates.  In 2023, we expect to benefit from higher volumes, our completed Demicks Lake III natural gas processing plant and the expected completion of our MB-5 NGL fractionator, highlighting our extensive and integrated assets that are located in some of the most productive shale basins in the United States. Medford Incident - On July 9, 2022, a fire occurred at our 210 MBbl/d Medford, Oklahoma, natural gas liquids fractionation facility.  All personnel were safe and accounted for with temporary evacuations of local residents taken as a precautionary measure. Net income for the year ended December 31, 2022, includes the unfavorable impact of our $5 million property deductible and approximately $30 million of losses incurred associated with the 45-day waiting period for business interruption coverage.  Beginning in August 2022, we developed claims related to the Medford incident and recorded accruals for expected insurance recoveries.  The table below sets forth our 2022 insurance accruals associated with the Medford incident: (a) - We received a $100 million payment in the fourth quarter 2022, leaving a receivable balance at December 31, 2022, of $50.7 million. Our business interruption insurance includes coverage for (i) incurred costs and losses that are either unavoidable or incurred to mitigate or reduce losses and (ii) lost earnings.  Our business interruption insurance accruals in the table above primarily represent third-party fractionation costs and fully offset the actual losses incurred in 2022, subsequent to the 45-day waiting period. We assessed the property damage to our facility and wrote off assets totaling $45.6 million, which represents the carrying value associated with certain damaged Medford facility property.  These noncash property losses are fully offset by insurance recoveries noted in the table above.  We expect to continue to operate NGL pipeline assets in Medford along with existing offices for regional operations.  In addition, we are preserving certain Medford assets for future potential NGL facilities that could be constructed in Medford to enhance our NGL business as the market evolves.  For additional information on the Medford incident, see Note B of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report. Subsequent Event - On January 9, 2023, we reached an agreement with our insurers to settle all claims for physical damage and business interruption related to the Medford incident.  Under the terms of the settlement agreement, we agreed to resolve the claims for total insurance payments of $930 million, $100 million of which was received in 2022.  The remaining $830 million was received in the first quarter 2023.  The proceeds serve as settlement for property damage, business interruption claims to the date of settlement and as payment in lieu of future business interruption insurance claims. In the first quarter 2023, we applied the $830 million received to our outstanding insurance receivable at December 31, 2022, of $50.7 million, and recorded a gain in operating income for the remaining $779.3 million.  We expect our cash from operations in the remainder of 2023 and in 2024 to be impacted by incurred costs and losses resulting from the Medford incident for which we will no longer receive business interruption proceeds. 37 Due to market demand and a more favorable completion schedule, we announced plans to construct a new 125 MBbl/d MB-6 NGL fractionator in Mont Belvieu, Texas, instead of rebuilding our Medford NGL fractionator at this time.  The MB-6 fractionator will have the capability to produce purity ethane instead of the ethane/propane mix previously produced at the Medford facility.  The 125 MBbl/d capacity of the MB-6 fractionator is expected to be economically equivalent to the capacity lost at Medford.  In addition, our 125 MBbl/d MB-5 NGL fractionator remains on schedule to be completed early in the second quarter of 2023, which is expected to reduce the need for third-party fractionation while the new MB-6 fractionator is being constructed.  Until these projects are completed, we expect to continue to provide midstream services through existing arrangements with industry peers, along with our integrated NGL pipeline system between the Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast regions and our fractionation and storage assets. Ethane Production - Price differentials between ethane and natural gas can cause natural gas processors to extract ethane or leave it in the natural gas stream, known as ethane rejection.  As a result of these ethane economics, ethane volumes on our system can fluctuate.  In the second half of 2022, ethane prices decreased relative to natural gas prices, as overall demand decreased, and were further impacted by lower petrochemical plant utilization, both planned and unplanned.  This resulted in higher ethane rejection across most basins where we operate, with the largest impact in the Mid-Continent region, compared with the first half of 2022.  As utilization increases and demand for feedstock returns, we expect improvement in ethane economics; however, price fluctuations are expected to continue. Ethane volumes under long-term contracts delivered to our NGL system increased approximately 20 MBbl/d to an average of 450 MBbl/d in 2022, compared with 430 MBbl/d in 2021, due primarily to changes in ethane extraction economics.  We estimate that there are more than 225 MBbl/d of discretionary ethane, consisting of more than 125 MBbl/d in the Rocky Mountain region and approximately 100 MBbl/d in the Mid-Continent region, that can be recovered and transported on our system. Growth Projects - We operate an integrated, reliable and diversified network of NGL and natural gas gathering, processing, fractionation, transportation and storage assets connecting supply in the Rocky Mountain, Mid-Continent and Permian regions with key market centers.  Our primary capital-growth projects are outlined in the table below: (a) - Excludes capitalized interest/AFUDC. Debt Issuances and Repayments - In November 2022, we completed an underwritten public offering of $750 million, 6.1% senior unsecured notes due 2032.  The net proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts, commissions and offering expenses, were $742 million.  The proceeds were used primarily to repay all outstanding amounts under our commercial paper program.  The remainder was used for general corporate purposes. In July 2022, we redeemed the remaining $895.8 million of our 3.375% senior notes due October 2022 at 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, with cash on hand and short-term borrowings. Subsequent event - We elected to redeem our $425 million, 5.0% senior notes due September 2023, with a redemption effective date in late February 2023.  We expect the redemption price to equal 100% of the principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, which we will pay with cash on hand. Dividends - During 2022, we paid common stock dividends totaling $3.74 per share, which is consistent with the prior year.  In February 2023, we paid a quarterly common stock dividend of $0.955 per share ($3.82 per share on an annualized basis), an increase of 2% compared with the same quarter in the prior year.  Our dividend growth is primarily due to the increase in cash flows resulting from the growth of our operations. 38 FINANCIAL RESULTS AND OPERATING INFORMATION How We Evaluate Our Operations Management uses a variety of financial and operating metrics to analyze our performance.  Our consolidated financial metrics include: (1) operating income; (2) net income; (3) diluted EPS; and (4) adjusted EBITDA.  We evaluate segment operating results using adjusted EBITDA and our operating metrics, which include various volume and rate statistics that are relevant for the respective segment.  These operating metrics allow investors to analyze the various components of segment financial results in terms of volumes and rate/price.  Management uses these metrics to analyze historical segment financial results and as the key inputs for forecasting and budgeting segment financial results.  For additional information on our operating metrics, see the respective segment subsections of this “Financial Results and Operating Information” section. Non-GAAP Financial Measures - Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure of our financial performance.  Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net income adjusted for interest expense, depreciation and amortization, noncash impairment charges, income taxes, allowance for equity funds used during construction, noncash compensation expense and certain other noncash items.  We believe this non-GAAP financial measure is useful to investors because it and similar measures are used by many companies in our industry as a measurement of financial performance and is commonly employed by financial analysts and others to evaluate our financial performance and to compare financial performance among companies in our industry.  Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered an alternative to net income, EPS or any other measure of financial performance presented in accordance with GAAP.  Additionally, this calculation may not be comparable with similarly titled measures of other companies. Consolidated Operations Selected Financial Results - The following table sets forth certain selected financial results for the periods indicated: See reconciliation of net income to adjusted EBITDA in the “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” section. Changes in commodity prices and sales volumes affect both revenues and cost of sales and fuel in our Consolidated Statements of Income and, therefore, the impact is largely offset between these line items, except where noted. Operating income for the year ended December 31, 2022, includes $96.1 million of business interruption insurance recoveries, which are included in the other operating (income) expense, net line item above, and an approximately $30 million unfavorable impact from the 45-day business interruption coverage waiting period related to the Medford incident in our Natural Gas Liquids segment. 39 2022 vs. 2021 - Operating income increased $211.1 million primarily as a result of the following: • Natural Gas Gathering and Processing - an increase of $127.7 million due primarily to higher realized commodity prices, net of hedging, and higher average fee rates and $53.8 million from higher volumes in the Rocky Mountain and Mid-Continent regions; and • Natural Gas Liquids - an increase of $102.8 million in exchange services related primarily to higher average fee rates and higher volumes in the Rocky Mountain region and Permian Basin, offset partially by higher fuel and power costs and third-party fractionation costs; an increase of $46.2 million due to the unfavorable impact of Winter Storm Uri in the first quarter 2021 and $18.2 million in higher optimization and marketing earnings; offset by • Natural Gas Pipelines - a decrease of $134.7 million due to the favorable impact of Winter Storm Uri in the first quarter 2021, offset partially by increases of $92.1 million due primarily to higher storage and transportation services, higher average earnings on natural gas sales and higher pricing on compression services; and • Consolidated Operating Costs - an increase of $82.7 million due primarily to higher outside services, materials and supplies expense and property taxes, related primarily to the growth of our operations. Net income and diluted EPS increased due primarily to the items discussed above, lower interest expense related to increased capitalized interest and lower debt balances and higher equity in net earnings from investments.  These increases were offset partially by higher income taxes and losses related to the mark-to-market of investments associated with certain benefit plan investments. Capital expenditures increased due primarily to our capital-growth projects, including the construction of our Demicks Lake III natural gas processing plant, our MB-5 fractionator and the Viking compression project. Additional information regarding our financial results and operating information is provided in the following discussion for each of our segments. Selected Financial Results and Operating Information for the Year Ended December 31, 2021 vs. 2020 - The consolidated and segment financial results and operating information for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared with the year ended December 31, 2020, are included in Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is available via the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov and our website at www.oneok.com. Natural Gas Gathering and Processing Growth Projects - Our Natural Gas Gathering and Processing segment has invested in growth projects in NGL-rich areas in the Williston Basin.  See “Growth Projects” in the “Recent Developments” section for discussion of our capital-growth projects. For a discussion of our capital expenditure financing, see “Capital Expenditures” in the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section. 40 Selected Financial Results and Operating Information - The following tables set forth certain selected financial results and operating information for our Natural Gas Gathering and Processing segment for the periods indicated: See reconciliation of net income to adjusted EBITDA in the “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” section. Changes in commodity prices and sales volumes affect both revenue and cost of sales and fuel, and, therefore, the impact is largely offset between these line items. 2022 vs. 2021 - Adjusted EBITD A increased $147.5 million, p rimarily as a result of the following: • an increase of $127.7 million due primarily to higher realized commodity prices, net of hedging, and average fee rates; and • an increase of $53.8 million from higher volumes due primarily to increased producer activity in the Rocky Mountain and Mid-Continent regions, offset partially by the impact of winter weather in the Rocky Mountain region in the second and fourth quarters of 2022; offset by • an increase of $35.2 million in operating costs due primarily to higher materials and supplies expense due primarily to the growth of our operations and higher outside services. Capital expenditures increase d due primarily to growth projects, including our Demicks Lake III project. (a) - Includes volumes for consolidated entities only. (b) - Includes volumes we processed at company-owned and third-party facilities. 2022 vs. 2021 - Our natural gas gathered and natural gas processed volumes increased due primarily to increased producer activity in the Rocky Mountain and Mid-Continent regions, offset partially by the unfavorable impact of winter weather in the Rocky Mountain region in the second and fourth quarters of 2022. Our average fee rate increased due primarily to increased contribution of volumes on higher fee contracts in the Williston Basin and inflation-based escalators in our contracts.  Also, for certain fee with POP contracts, our contractual fees increased due to production volumes, delivery pressures, or commodity prices relative to specified contractual thresholds. Commodity Price Risk - See discussion regarding our commodity price risk under “Commodity Price Risk” in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Natural Gas Liquids Growth Projects - Our Natural Gas Liquids segment invests in projects to transport, fractionate, store and deliver to market centers NGL supply from shale and other resource development areas.  Our growth strategy is focused around connecting 41 diversified supply basins from the Rocky Mountain region through the Mid-Continent region and the Permian Basin with purity NGLs demand from the petrochemical and refining industries and NGL export demand in the Gulf Coast.  See “Growth Projects” in the “Recent Developments” section for discussion of our capital-growth projects. In 2022, we connected one third-party natural gas processing plant in the Permian Basin and one raw feed truck terminal in the Mid-Continent region to our NGL system.  In addition, one third-party natural gas processing plant in the Permian Basin connected to our system was expanded. For a discussion of our capital expenditure financing, see “Capital Expenditures” in the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section. Selected Financial Results and Operating Information - The following tables set forth certain selected financial results and operating information for our Natural Gas Liquids segment for the periods indicated: See reconciliation of net income to adjusted EBITDA in the “Non-GAAP Measures” section. Changes in commodity prices and sales volumes affect both revenues and cost of sales and fuel, and, therefore, the impact is largely offset between these line items. Adjusted EBITDA for the year ended December 31, 2022, includes $96.1 million of business interruption insurance recoveries, which are included in the other line item above, and an approximately $30 million unfavorable impact from the 45-day business interruption coverage waiting period related to the Medford incident. 2022 vs. 2021 - Adjusted EBITDA increased $131.6 million primarily as a result of the following: • an increase of $102.8 million in exchange services (excluding the impact of Winter Storm Uri discussed below) due primarily to: ◦ $186.3 million in higher average fee rates, primarily as a result of inflation-based and fuel cost escalators in our contracts, ◦ $50.1 million in higher volumes primarily in the Rocky Mountain region and Permian Basin, offset partially by lower volumes in the Mid-Continent region, offset by ◦ $129.9 million in higher costs, primarily fuel and power costs and third-party fractionation costs.  A portion of the third-party fractionation costs relate to the 45-day Medford incident business interruption coverage waiting period, and ◦ $12.9 million related to recognition of proceeds previously considered a gain contingency in 2021; and • an increase of $46.2 million in exchange services due to the unfavorable impact of Winter Storm Uri in the first quarter 2021; • an increase of $18.2 million in optimization and marketing due primarily to wider location and commodity price differentials, offset partially by nonrecurring activities in the first quarter 2021 during Winter Storm Uri; and • an increase of $13.6 million in equity in net earnings from investments due primarily to higher volumes delivered to the Overland Pass pipeline; offset by • an increase of $48.8 million in operating costs due primarily to higher property taxes associated with our completed capital-growth projects and higher outside services. 42 Capital expenditures increased due primarily to capital-growth projects, including our MB-5 fractionator. (a) - Represents physical raw feed volumes for which we provide transportation and/or fractionation services. We generally expect ethane volumes to increase or decrease with corresponding increases or decreases in overall NGL production.  However, ethane volumes may experience growth or decline greater than corresponding growth or decline in overall NGL production due to ethane economics causing producers to extract or reject ethane. 2022 vs. 2021 - Volumes increased due primarily to increased NGL production in the Rocky Mountain region and Permian Basin, and higher ethane volumes from incentivized ethane recovery in the Rocky Mountain region, offset partially by decreased ethane recovery in the Mid-Continent region due to ethane economics.  Volumes also benefited from the unfavorable impact of Winter Storm Uri in the first quarter 2021, offset partially by the impact of winter weather in the Rocky Mountain region in the second and fourth quarters of 2022. Natural Gas Pipelines Growth Projects - Our Natural Gas Pipelines segment invests in projects that provide transportation and storage services to end users.  In December 2022, our Saguaro Connector Pipeline L.L.C. subsidiary filed a Presidential Permit application with the FERC to construct and operate new international border-crossing facilities at the U.S. and Mexico border.  The proposed border facilities would connect upstream with a potential intrastate pipeline, the Saguaro Connector Pipeline, which would be owned and operated by ONEOK.  Additionally, the proposed border facilities would connect at the international boundary with a new pipeline under development in Mexico for delivery to a liquefied natural gas export facility on the west coast of Mexico.  The final investment decision on the pipeline is expected by mid-2023. See “Growth Projects” in the “Recent Developments” section for discussion of our capital-growth projects. For a discussion of our capital expenditure financing, see “Capital Expenditures” in the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section. Selected Financial Results and Operating Information - The following tables set forth certain selected financial results and operating information for our Natural Gas Pipelines segment for the periods indicated: See reconciliation of net income to adjusted EBITDA in the “Non-GAAP Measures” section. 2022 vs. 2021 - Adjusted EBITDA decreased $39.4 million primarily as a result of the following: • a decrease of $134.7 million due to the favorable impact of Winter Storm Uri in the first quarter 2021 on natural gas sales of volumes previously held in inventory, interruptible transportation revenue and park and loan revenue; and • an increase of $12.0 million in operating expenses due primarily to higher outside services, offset by • an increase of $51.5 million in storage services due primarily to higher storage rates on renegotiated contracts; 43 • an increase of $23.1 million in transportation services due primarily to higher interruptible revenue, excluding the impact of Winter Storm Uri in the first quarter 2021 noted above, and higher firm transportation revenue; • an increase of $17.5 million due primarily to higher average earnings on natural gas sales of volumes previously held in inventory, excluding the impact of Winter Storm Uri in the first quarter 2021 noted above, and higher pricing on compression services; and • an increase of $10.4 million from higher equity in net earnings from investments due primarily to increased volumes on Northern Border and higher firm transportation rates on Roadrunner. Capital expenditur es increased in 2022 due primarily to capital-growth projects, including the Viking compression project. (a) - Includes volumes for consolidated entities only. In April 2022, the FERC initiated a review of Guardian’s rates pursuant to Section 5 of the Natural Gas Act.  In August 2022, Guardian reached a settlement in principle with the participants in the Section 5 rate case. The FERC approved the settlement in February 2023, which w ill result in a future reduction of rates.  We do not expect the reduced rates to have a material impact on our results of operations. NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES The following table sets forth a reconciliation of net income, the nearest comparable GAAP financial performance measure, to adjusted EBITDA for the periods indicated: (a) - Years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, includes a loss of $18.8 million, and benefits of $10.4 million and $19.8 million, respectively, related to the mark-to-market of investments associated with certain benefit plan investments. (b) - Year ended December 31, 2020, includes corporate net gains of $22.3 million on extinguishment of debt related to open market repurchases. CONTINGENCIES See Note O of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for a discussion of regulatory and environmental matters. Other Legal Proceedings - We are a party to various legal proceedings that have arisen in the normal course of our operations.  While the results of these proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe the reasonably possible losses from such 44 proceedings, individually and in the aggregate, are not material.  Additionally, we believe the probable final outcome of such proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES General - Our primary sources of cash inflows are operating cash flows, proceeds from our commercial paper program and our $2.5 Billion Credit Agreement, debt issuances and the issuance of common stock for our liquidity and capital resources requirements. On January 9, 2023, we reached an agreement with our insurers to settle all claims for physical damage and business interruption related to the Medford incident.  Under the terms of the settlement agreement, we agreed to resolve the claims for total insurance payments of $930 million, $100 million of which was received in 2022.  The remaining $830 million was received in the first quarter 2023.  The proceeds serve as settlement for property damage, business interruption claims to the date of settlement and as payment in lieu of future business interruption insurance claims.  We expect our cash from operations in the remainder of 2023 and in 2024 to be impacted by incurred costs and losses resulting from the Medford incident for which we will no longer receive business interruption proceeds. We expect our sources of cash inflows to provide sufficient resources to finance our operations, quarterly cash dividends, capital expenditures and maturities of long-term debt.  We believe we have sufficient liquidity due to our $2.5 Billion Credit Agreement, which expires in June 2027, and access to $1.0 billion available through our “at-the-market” equity program.  As of the date of this report, no shares have been sold through our “at-the-market” equity program. We may manage interest-rate risk through the use of fixed-rate debt, floating-rate debt and interest-rate swaps.  For additional information on our interest-rate swaps, see Note D of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report. Guarantees and Cash Management - We and ONEOK Partners are issuers of certain public debt securities.  We guarantee certain indebtedness of ONEOK Partners, and ONEOK Partners and the Intermediate Partnership guarantee certain of our indebtedness.  The guarantees in place for our and ONEOK Partners’ indebtedness are full, irrevocable, unconditional and absolute joint and several guarantees to the holders of each series of outstanding securities.  Liabilities under the guarantees rank equally in right of payment with all existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness.  As ONEOK Partners and the Intermediate Partnership are consolidated subsidiaries of ONEOK, separate financial statements for the guarantors are not required, as long as the alternative disclosure required by Rule 13-01 is provided, which includes narrative disclosure and summarized financial information.  The Intermediate Partnership holds all of ONEOK Partners’ interests and equity in its subsidiaries, which are nonguarantors, and substantially all the assets and operations reside with nonguarantor operating subsidiaries.  Therefore, as allowed under Rule 13-01, we have excluded the summarized financial information for each issuer and guarantor as the combined financial information of the subsidiary issuer and parent guarantor, excluding our ownership of all the interests in ONEOK Partners, reflect no material assets, liabilities or results of operations, apart from the guaranteed indebtedness.  For additional information on our and ONEOK Partners’ indebtedness, see Note G of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report. We use a centralized cash management program that concentrates the cash assets of our nonguarantor operating subsidiaries in joint accounts for the purposes of providing financial flexibility and lowering the cost of borrowing, transaction costs and bank fees.  Our centralized cash management program provides that funds in excess of the daily needs of our operating subsidiaries are concentrated, consolidated or otherwise made available for use by other entities within our consolidated group.  Our operating subsidiaries participate in this program to the extent they are permitted pursuant to FERC regulations or their operating agreements.  Under the cash management program, depending on whether a participating subsidiary has short-term cash surpluses or cash requirements, we provide cash to the subsidiary or the subsidiary provides cash to us. Short-term Liquidity - Our principal sources of short-term liquidity consist of cash generated from operating activities, distributions received from our equity-method investments, proceeds from our commercial paper program and our $2.5 Billion Credit Agreement. We had working capital (defined as current assets less current liabilities) deficits of $503.9 million and $810.2 million as of December 31, 2022, and December 31, 2021, respectively.  Although working capital is influenced by several factors, including, among other things: (i) the timing of (a) debt and equity issuances, (b) the funding of capital expenditures, (c) scheduled debt repayments, and (d) accounts receivable and payable; and (ii) the volume and cost of inventory and commodity imbalances, our working capital deficits at December 31, 2022 and 2021, were driven primarily by current maturities of long-term debt.  We may have working capital deficits in future periods as we continue to repay long-term debt.  We do not expect this working capital deficit to have an adverse impact to our cash flows or operations. 45 At December 31, 2022, we had no borrowings under our $2.5 Billion Credit Agreement and $220.2 million of cash and cash equivalents. In June 2022, we amended and restated our $2.5 Billion Credit Agreement, which matures in June 2027.  As of December 31, 2022, we are in compliance with all covenants of our $2.5 Billion Credit Agreement. For additional information on our $2.5 Billion Credit Agreement, see Note G of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report. Long-term Financing - In addition to our principal sources of short-term liquidity discussed above, we expect to fund our longer-term financing requirements by issuing long-term notes.  Other options to obtain financing include, but are not limited to, issuing common stock, loans from financial institutions, issuance of convertible debt securities or preferred equity securities, asset securitization and the sale and lease-back of facilities. Debt Issuances - In November 2022, we completed an underwritten public offering of $750 million, 6.1% senior unsecured notes due 2032.  The net proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts, commissions and offering expenses, were $742 million.  The proceeds were used primarily to repay all outstanding amounts under our commercial paper program.  The remainder was used for general corporate purposes. In June 2022, Guardian entered into a $120 million unsecured term loan agreement.  During the second quarter 2022, Guardian drew the full $120 million available under the agreement and used the proceeds to repay intercompany debt with ONEOK. Debt Repayments - In July 2022, we redeemed the remaining $895.8 million of our 3.375% senior notes due October 2022 at 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, with cash on hand and short-term borrowings. Subsequent event - We elected to redeem our $425 million, 5.0% senior notes due September 2023, with a redemption effective date in late February 2023.  We expect the redemption price to equal 100% of the principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, which we will pay with cash on hand. Material Commitments - We have material cash commitments related to our capital expenditures, senior notes and corresponding interest payments, which we expect to fund through our sources of cash inflows discussed above.  Our senior notes and interest payments are discussed in Note G of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report.  We also have cash commitments related to transportation, storage and other commercial contracts, as well as our financial and physical derivative obligations, which we expect to fund with cash from operations. Capital Expenditures - We classify expenditures that are expected to generate additional revenue, return on investment or significant operating or environmental efficiencies as growth capital expenditures.  Maintenance capital expenditures are those capital expenditures required to maintain our existing assets and operations and do not generate additional revenues.  Maintenance capital expenditures are made to replace partially or fully depreciated assets, to maintain the existing operating capacity of our assets and to extend their useful lives.  Our capital expenditures are financed typically through operating cash flows and short- and long-term debt. The following table sets forth our growth and maintenance capital expenditures, excluding AFUDC, for the periods indicated: Capital expenditures increased in 2022, compared with 2021, due primarily to our capital-growth projects, including the construction of our Demicks Lake III natural gas processing plant, our MB-5 fractionator and the Viking compression project.  See discussion of our announced capital-growth projects in the “Recent Developments” section. 46 We expect total capital expenditures, excluding AFUDC and capitalized interest, of $1.3-$1.5 billion in 2023. Credit Ratings - Our long-term debt credit ratings as of February 21, 2023, are shown in the table below: Our credit ratings, which are investment grade, may be affected by our leverage, liquidity, credit profile or potential transactions.  The most common criteria for assessment of our credit ratings are the debt-to-EBITDA ratio, interest coverage, business risk profile and liquidity.  If our credit ratings were downgraded, our cost to borrow funds under our $2.5 Billion Credit Agreement could increase and a potential loss of access to the commercial paper market could occur.  In the event that we are unable to borrow funds under our commercial paper program and there has not been a material adverse change in our business, we would continue to have access to our $2.5 Billion Credit Agreement, which expires in 2027.  An adverse credit rating change alone is not a default under our $2.5 Billion Credit Agreement. In the normal course of business, our counterparties provide us with secured and unsecured credit.  In the event of a downgrade in our credit ratings or a significant change in our counterparties’ evaluation of our creditworthiness, we could be required to provide additional collateral in the form of cash, letters of credit or other negotiable instruments as a condition of continuing to conduct business with such counterparties.  We may be required to fund margin requirements with our counterparties with cash, letters of credit or other negotiable instruments. Dividends - Holders of our common stock share equally in any common stock dividends declared by our Board of Directors, subject to the rights of the holders of outstanding preferred stock.  In 2022, we paid common stock dividends of $3.74 per share, which is consistent with prior year.  In February 2023, we paid a quarterly common stock dividend of $0.955 per share ($3.82 per share on an annualized basis), an increase of 2% compared with the same quarter in the prior year. Our Series E Preferred Stock pays quarterly dividends on each share of Series E Preferred Stock, when, as and if declared by our Board of Directors, at a rate of 5.5% per year.  In 2022, we paid dividends of $1.1 million for the Series E Preferred Stock.  In February 2023, we paid quarterly dividends totaling $0.3 million for the Series E Preferred Stock. For the year ended December 31, 2022, our cash flows from operations exceeded dividends paid by $1.2 billion.  We expect our cash flows from operations to continue to sufficiently fund our cash dividends.  To the extent operating cash flows are not sufficient to fund our dividends, we may utilize cash on hand from other sources of short- and long-term liquidity to fund a portion of our dividends. CASH FLOW ANALYSIS We use the indirect method to prepare our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.  Under this method, we reconcile net income to cash flows provided by operating activities by adjusting net income for those items that affect net income but do not result in actual cash receipts or payments during the period and for operating cash items that do not impact net income.  These reconciling items can include depreciation and amortization, impairment charges, allowance for equity funds used during construction, gain or loss on sale of assets, deferred income taxes, net undistributed earnings from equity-method investments, share-based compensation expense, other amounts and changes in our assets and liabilities not classified as investing or financing activities. 47 The following table sets forth the changes in cash flows by operating, investing and financing activities for the periods indicated: Operating Cash Flows - Operating cash flows are affected by earnings from our business activities and changes in our operating assets and liabilities.  Changes in commodity prices and demand for our services or products, whether because of general economic conditions, changes in supply, changes in demand for the end products that are made with our products or increased competition from other service providers, could affect our earnings and operating cash flows.  Our operating cash flows can also be impacted by changes in our NGLs and natural gas inventory balances, which are driven primarily by commodity prices, supply, demand and the operation of our assets. 2022 vs. 2021 - Cash flows from operating activities, before changes in operating assets and liabilities, increased $214.5 million due primarily to higher net income resulting from higher realized commodity prices, net of hedging, and higher average fee rates in our Natural Gas Gathering and Processing segment and higher exchange services in our Natural Gas Liquids segment.  These increases were offset partially by the impact of Winter Storm Uri in our Natural Gas Pipelines segment in the first quarter 2021, as discussed in “Financial Results and Operating Information.” The changes in operating assets and liabilities increased operating cash flows $3.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared with a decrease of $141.8 million for the same period in 2021.  The change is due primarily to changes in risk management assets and liabilities, which include the gains associated with the settlements of forward-starting interest rate swaps in 2022 and changes in the fair value of risk-management assets and liabilities; accounts receivable resulting from the timing of receipt of cash from customers and NGLs and natural gas in inventory, both of which vary from period to period and with changes in commodity prices; offset partially by changes in accounts payable, which also vary from period to period with changes in commodity prices, and from the timing of payments to vendors, suppliers and other third parties and changes in other assets and liabilities. Investing Cash Flows 2022 vs. 2021 - Cash used in investing activities increased $474.0 million due primarily to capital expenditures related to our capital-growth projects. Financing Cash Flows 2022 vs. 2021 - Cash used in financing activities decreased $566.2 million due primarily to the issuance of long-term debt in 2022. Cash Flow Analysis for the Year Ended December 31, 2021 vs. 2020 - The cash flow analysis for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared with the year ended December 31, 2020, is included in Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is available via the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov and our website at www.oneok.com. IMPACT OF NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Information about the impact of new accounting standards is included in Note A of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report. 48 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures in accordance with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions with respect to values or conditions that cannot be known with certainty that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements.  These estimates and assumptions also affect the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.  Although we believe these estimates and assumptions are reasonable, actual results could differ from our estimates. The following is a summary of our most critical accounting policies and estimates, which are defined as those estimates and policies most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and requiring management’s most difficult, subjective or complex judgment, particularly because of the need to make estimates concerning the impact of inherently uncertain matters.  We have discussed the development and selection of our estimates and critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors.  See Note A of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for the description of our accounting policies and additional information about our critical accounting policies and estimates. Derivatives and Risk-management Activities - We utilize derivatives to reduce our market-risk exposure to commodity price and interest-rate fluctuations and to achieve more predictable cash flows.  The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument depends on whether it qualifies and has been designated as part of a hedging relationship.  When possible, we implement effective hedging strategies using derivative financial instruments that qualify as hedges for accounting purposes.  We have not used derivative instruments for trading purposes.  For a derivative designated as a cash flow hedge, the gain or loss from a change in fair value of the derivative instrument is deferred in accumulated other comprehensive loss until the forecasted transaction affects earnings, at which time the fair value of the derivative instrument is reclassified into earnings. We assess hedging relationships at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis to determine whether the hedging relationship is, and is expected to remain, highly effective.  We do not believe that changes in our fair value estimates of our derivative instruments have a material impact on our results of operations, as the majority of our derivatives are accounted for as effective cash flow hedges.  However, if a derivative instrument is ineligible for cash flow hedge accounting or if we fail to appropriately designate it as a cash flow hedge, changes in fair value of the derivative instrument would be recorded currently in earnings.  Additionally, if a cash flow hedge ceases to qualify for hedge accounting treatment because it is no longer probable that the forecasted transaction will occur, the change in fair value of the derivative instrument would be recognized in earnings.  For more information on commodity price sensitivity and a discussion of the market risk of pricing changes, see Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. See Notes A, C and D of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for additional discussion of fair value measurements and derivatives and risk-management activities. Impairment of Goodwill and Long-Lived Assets, Including Intangible Assets - We assess our goodwill for impairment at least annually as of July 1, unless events or changes in circumstances indicate an impairment may have occurred before that time.  As part of our goodwill impairment test, we may first assess qualitative factors (including macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors and overall financial performance) to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of each of our reporting units is less than its carrying amount.  If further testing is necessary or a quantitative test is elected, we perform a Step 1 analysis for goodwill impairment. In a Step 1 analysis, an assessment is made by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill.  If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. We assess our long-lived assets, including intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset’s carrying amount may not be recoverable.  An impairment is indicated if the carrying amount of a long-lived asset exceeds the sum of the undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset.  If an impairment is indicated, we record an impairment loss equal to the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the long-lived asset. Our impairment tests require the use of assumptions and estimates, such as industry economic factors and the profitability of future business strategies.  To estimate undiscounted future cash flows of long-lived assets, we may apply a probability-weighted approach that incorporates different assumptions and potential outcomes related to the underlying long-lived assets.  The evaluation is performed at the lowest level for which separately identifiable cash flows exist.  To estimate the fair value of 49 these assets, we use two generally accepted valuation approaches, an income approach and a market approach.  Under the income approach, our discounted cash flow analysis includes the following inputs that are not readily available: a discount rate reflective of industry cost of capital, our estimated contract rates, volumes, operating margins, operating and maintenance costs and capital expenditures.  Under the market approach, our inputs include EBITDA multiples, which are estimated from recent peer acquisition transactions, and forecasted EBITDA, which incorporates inputs similar to those used under the income approach.  If actual results are not consistent with our assumptions and estimates or our assumptions and estimates change due to new information, we may be exposed to future impairment charges. See Notes A, E and F of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for additional discussion of goodwill, long-lived assets and investments in unconsolidated affiliates. Depreciation Methods and Estimated Useful Lives of Property, Plant and Equipment - Our property, plant and equipment are depreciated using the straight-line method that incorporates management assumptions regarding useful economic lives and residual values.  As we place additional assets in service, our estimates related to depreciation expense have become more significant and changes in estimated useful lives of our assets could have a material effect on our results of operations.  At the time we place our assets in service, we believe such assumptions are reasonable; however, circumstances may develop that would cause us to change these assumptions, which would change our depreciation expense prospectively.  Examples of such circumstances include changes in (i) competition, (ii) laws and regulations that limit the estimated economic life of an asset, (iii) technology that render an asset obsolete, (iv) expected salvage values, (v) results of rate cases or rate settlements on regulated assets and (vi) forecasts of the remaining economic life for the resource basins where our assets are located, if any.  For the fiscal years presented in this Form 10-K, no changes were made to the determinations of useful lives that would have a material effect on the timing of depreciation expense in future periods. See Note E of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for additional discussion of property, plant and equipment. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Some of the statements contained and incorporated in this Annual Report are forward-looking statements as defined under federal securities laws.  The forward-looking statements relate to our anticipated financial performance (including projected operating income, net income, capital expenditures, cash flows and projected levels of dividends), liquidity, management’s plans and objectives for our future capital-growth projects and other future operations (including plans to construct additional natural gas and NGL pipelines, processing and fractionation facilities and related cost estimates), our business prospects, the outcome of regulatory and legal proceedings, market conditions and other matters.  We make these forward-looking statements in reliance on the safe harbor protections provided under federal securities legislation and other applicable laws.  The following discussion is intended to identify important factors that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements and other statements in this Annual Report regarding our environmental, social and other sustainability targets, plans and goals are not an indication that these statements are required to be disclosed in our filings with the SEC, or that we will continue to make similar statements in the same extent or manner in future filings.  In addition, historical, current and forward-looking environmental, social and sustainability-related statements may be based on standards and processes for measuring progress that are still developing and that continue to evolve, and assumptions that are subject to change in the future. Forward-looking statements include the items identified in the preceding paragraph, the information concerning possible or assumed future results of our operations and other statements contained or incorporated in this Annual Report identified by words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “continue,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “goal,” “guidance,” “intend,” “may,” “might,” “outlook,” “plan,” “potential,” “project,” “scheduled,” “should,” “target,” “will,” “would,” and other words and terms of similar meaning. 50 One should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.  Known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by forward-looking statements.  Those factors may affect our operations, markets, products, services and prices.  In addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with the forward-looking statements, factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in any forward-looking statement include, among others, the following: • the impact of inflationary pressures, including increased interest rates, which may increase our capital expenditures and operating costs, raise the cost of capital or depress economic growth; • the impact on drilling and production by factors beyond our control, including the demand for natural gas, NGLs and crude oil; producers’ desire and ability to drill and obtain necessary permits; regulatory compliance; reserve performance; and capacity constraints and/or shut downs on the pipelines that transport crude oil, natural gas and NGLs from producing areas and our facilities; • risks associated with adequate supply to our gathering, processing, fractionation and pipeline facilities, including production declines that outpace new drilling, the shutting-in of production by producers, actions taken by federal, state or local governments to require producers to prorate or to cut their production levels as a way to address any excess market supply situations or extended periods of ethane rejection; • demand for our services and products in the proximity of our facilities; • economic climate and growth in the geographic areas in which we operate; • the risk of a slowdown in growth or decline in the United States or international economies, including liquidity risks in United States or foreign credit markets; • the possibility of future terrorist attacks or the possibility or occurrence of an outbreak of, or changes in, hostilities or changes in the political conditions throughout the world, including the current conflict in Ukraine and the surrounding region; • performance of contractual obligations by our customers, service providers, contractors and shippers; • the effects of changes in governmental policies and regulatory actions, including changes with respect to income and other taxes, pipeline safety, environmental compliance, cybersecurity, climate change initiatives, emissions credits, carbon offsets, carbon pricing, production limits and authorized rates of recovery of natural gas and natural gas transportation costs; • changes in demand for the use of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil because of the development of new technologies or other market conditions caused by concerns about climate change; • the impact of the transformation to a lower-carbon economy, including the timing and extent of the transformation, as well as the expected role of different energy sources, including natural gas, NGLs and crude oil, in such a transformation; • the pace of technological advancements and industry innovation, including those focused on reducing GHG emissions and advancing other climate-related initiatives, and our ability to take advantage of those innovations and developments; • the effectiveness of our risk-management function, including mitigating cyber- and climate-related risks; • our ability to identify and execute opportunities, and the economic viability of those opportunities, including those relating to renewable natural gas, carbon capture, use and storage, other renewable energy sources such as solar and wind and alternative low carbon fuel sources such as hydrogen; • the ability of our existing assets and our ability to apply and continue to develop our expertise to support the growth of, and transformation to, various renewable and alternative energy opportunities, including through the positioning and optimization of our assets; • our ability to efficiently reduce our GHG emissions (both Scope 1 and 2 emissions), including through the use of lower carbon power alternatives, management practices and system optimizations; • the necessity to focus on maintaining and enhancing our existing assets while reducing our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions; • the effects of weather and other natural phenomena and the effects of climate change (including physical and transformation-related effects) on our operations, demand for our services and commodity prices; • acts of nature, sabotage, terrorism or other similar acts that cause damage to our facilities or our suppliers’, customers’ or shippers’ facilities; • the inability of insurance proceeds to cover all liabilities or incurred costs and losses, or lost earnings, resulting from a loss; • delays in receiving insurance proceeds from covered losses; • the risk of increased costs for insurance premiums; • increased costs associated with insurance coverage, security or other items as a consequence of terrorist attacks; • the timing and extent of changes in energy commodity prices, including changes due to production decisions by other countries, such as the failure of countries to abide by agreements to reduce production volumes; 51 • competition from other United States and foreign energy suppliers and transporters, as well as alternative forms of energy, including, but not limited to, solar power, wind power, geothermal energy and biofuels such as ethanol and biodiesel; • the ability to market pipeline capacity on favorable terms, including the effects of: –    future demand for and prices of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil; –    competitive conditions in the overall energy market; –    availability of supplies of United States natural gas and crude oil; and –    availability of additional storage capacity; • the efficiency of our plants in processing natural gas and extracting and fractionating NGLs; • the composition and quality of the natural gas and NGLs we gather and process in our plants and transport on our pipelines; • risks of marketing, trading and hedging activities, including the risks of changes in commodity prices or the financial condition of our counterparties; • our ability to control operating costs and make cost-saving changes; • the risks inherent in the use of information systems in our respective businesses and those of our counterparties and service providers, including cyber-attacks, which, according to experts, have increased in volume and sophistication since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic; implementation of new software and hardware; and the impact on the timeliness of information for financial reporting; • the timely receipt of approval by applicable governmental entities for construction and operation of our pipeline and other projects and required regulatory clearances; • the ability to recover operating costs and amounts equivalent to income taxes, costs of property, plant and equipment and regulatory assets in our state and FERC-regulated rates; • the results of governmental actions, administrative proceedings and litigation, regulatory actions, executive orders, rule changes and receipt of expected clearances involving any local, state or federal regulatory body, including the FERC, the National Transportation Safety Board, Homeland Security, the PHMSA, the EPA and the CFTC; • the mechanical integrity of facilities and pipelines operated; • the capital-intensive nature of our businesses; • the impact of unforeseen changes in interest rates, debt and equity markets, inflation rates, economic recession and other external factors over which we have no control, including the effect on pension and postretirement expense and funding resulting from changes in equity and bond market returns; • actions by rating agencies concerning our credit; • our indebtedness and guarantee obligations could cause adverse consequences, including making us vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions, limiting our ability to borrow additional funds and placing us at competitive disadvantages compared with our competitors that have less debt; • our ability to access capital at competitive rates or on terms acceptable to us; • our ability to acquire all necessary permits, consents or other approvals in a timely manner, to promptly obtain all necessary materials and supplies required for construction, and to construct gathering, processing, fractionation, transportation and storage facilities without labor or contractor problems; • our ability to control construction costs and completion schedules of our pipelines and other projects; • difficulties or delays experienced by trucks, railroads or pipelines in delivering products to or from our terminals or pipelines; • the uncertainty of estimates, including accruals and costs of environmental remediation; • the impact of uncontracted capacity in our assets being greater or less than expected; • the impact of potential impairment charges; • the profitability of assets or businesses acquired or constructed by us; • the risks associated with pending or possible acquisitions and dispositions, including our ability to finance or integrate any such acquisitions and any regulatory delay or conditions imposed by regulatory bodies in connection with any such acquisitions and dispositions; • the risk that material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting could emerge or that minor problems could become significant; • the impact and outcome of pending and future litigation; • the impact of recently issued and future accounting updates and other changes in accounting policies; • the risk factors listed in the reports we have filed, which are incorporated by reference, and may file with the SEC; and • the length, severity and reemergence of a pandemic or other health crisis, such as the COVID-19 pandemic and the measures taken to address it, which may (as with COVID-19) precipitate or exacerbate one or more of the factors herein, reduce the demand for natural gas, NGLs and crude oil and significantly disrupt or prevent us and our customers and counterparties from operating in the ordinary course of business for an extended period and increase the cost of operating our business. 52 These factors are not necessarily all of the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any of our forward-looking statements.  Other factors could also affect adversely our future results.  These and other risks are described in greater detail in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, in this Annual Report and in our other filings that we make with the SEC, which are available via the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov and our website at www.oneok.com.  All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these factors.  Any such forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and other than as required under securities laws, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information, subsequent events or change in circumstances, expectations or otherwise.