********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

We operate in rapidly changing economic and technological environments that present numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. The following discussion, as well as our “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” discussion in Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, highlights some of these risks. The risks described below are not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our securities. Business and Operational Risks Our success depends upon our ability to develop and sell new products and services, integrate acquired products and services and enhance our existing products and services. Rapid technological advances, intense competition, changing delivery models and evolving standards in computer hardware and software development and communications infrastructure, changing and increasingly sophisticated customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the industries in which we compete. If we are unable to develop new or sufficiently differentiated products and services, enhance and improve our product offerings and support services in a timely manner or position and price our products and services to meet demand, customers may not purchase or subscribe to our license, hardware or cloud offerings or renew license support, hardware support or cloud subscriptions contracts. Renewals of these contracts are important to the growth of our business. In addition, we cannot provide any assurance that the standards on which we choose to develop new products will allow us to compete effectively for business opportunities in emerging areas. We have continued to refresh and release new offerings of our cloud products and services. Machine learning and artificial intelligence are increasingly driving innovations in technology, but if they fail to operate as anticipated or our other products do not perform as promised, our business and reputation may be harmed. During fiscal 2022, we held many of our major customer events in a virtual format. Our shift to virtual customer events may not be successful, and we may not be able to showcase our products as well as we have historically done through in-person events or generate the same customer interest, opportunities and leads through these virtual events. We currently plan to reintroduce large in-person events during fiscal 2023 but we may not be able to do so successfully and our customers may not be able or willing to attend them, which could adversely impact our ability to market and sell our products and services. In addition, our business may be adversely affected if: 18 Our Oracle Cloud strategy, including our Oracle Cloud Software-as-a-Service and Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (SaaS and OCI, respectively, and collectively, Oracle Cloud Services) offerings, may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We provide our cloud and other offerings to customers worldwide via a variety of deployment models, including via our cloud-based SaaS and OCI offerings. As these business models continue to evolve, we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or maintain the profitability of our cloud offerings. Additionally, the increasing prevalence of cloud and SaaS delivery models offered by us and our competitors may unfavorably impact the pricing of our cloud and license offerings. If we do not successfully execute our cloud computing strategy or anticipate the cloud computing needs of our customers, our reputation as a cloud services provider could be harmed and our revenues and profitability could decline. As customer demand for our cloud offerings increases, we experience volatility in our reported revenues and operating results due to the differences in timing of revenue recognition between our cloud license and on-premise license, and hardware product arrangements relative to our cloud offering arrangements. Customers predominantly purchase our cloud offerings on a subscription basis and revenues from these offerings are generally recognized ratably or as services are consumed over the terms of the subscriptions. Consequently, any deterioration in sales activity associated with our cloud offerings may not be immediately observable in our consolidated statement of operations. This is in contrast to revenues associated with our license and hardware product arrangements, which are generally recognized in full at the time of delivery of the related licenses and hardware products. In addition, we may not be able to accurately anticipate customer transitions from or be able to sufficiently backfill reduced customer demand for our license, hardware and support offerings relative to the expected increase in customer adoption of and demand for our Oracle Cloud Services, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability . As a part of our Oracle Cloud strategy, we plan our investment levels based on estimates of future revenues and future anticipated rates of growth. In recent periods, our cloud services and license support expenses have grown to meet current and expected demand for our cloud offerings, including investments to increase our existing data center capacity and to establish data centers in new geographic locations. In connection with these investments, we entered, and expect to continue to enter, into long-term operating lease commitments with third party data center providers that generally require us to pay fees to early exit such obligations should our strategies change, which could adversely impact our profitability and cash flows. In addition, we outfit these data centers with equipment and improvements that we typically depreciate over their estimated useful lives, which could be shortened should our cloud strategies change, which could adversely affect our profitability. We might experience significant coding, manufacturing or configuration errors in our cloud, license and hardware offerings. Despite testing prior to the release and throughout the lifecycle of a product or service, our cloud, license and hardware offerings sometimes contain coding, manufacturing or configuration errors that can impact their function, performance and security, and result in other negative consequences. The detection and correction of any errors in released cloud, license or hardware offerings can be time consuming and costly. Errors in our cloud, license or hardware offerings could affect their ability to properly function, integrate or operate with other cloud, license or hardware offerings, could result in service interruptions, delays or outages of our cloud offerings, could create security vulnerabilities in our products or services, could delay the development or release of new products or services or new versions of products or services, and could adversely affect market acceptance 19 of our products or services. This includes third-party software products or services incorporated into our own. If we experience any of these errors, or if there are delays in releasing our cloud, license or hardware offerings or new versions of these offerings, our sales could be affected and revenues could decline. In addition, we run Oracle’s business operations as well as cloud and other services that we offer to our customers on our products and networks. Therefore, any flaws could affect our and our customers’ abilities to conduct business operations and to ensure accuracy in financial processes and reporting, and may result in unanticipated costs. Enterprise customers rely on our cloud, license and hardware offerings and related services to run their businesses , and errors in our cloud, license and hardware offerings and related services could expose us to product liability, performance and warranty claims as well as significant harm to our brand and reputation, which could impact our future sales . If we are unable to compete effectively, the results of operations and prospects for our business could be harmed. We face intense competition in all aspects of our business. The nature of the IT industry creates a competitive landscape that is constantly evolving as firms emerge, expand or are acquired, as technology evolves and as delivery models change. Many vendors spend amounts in excess of what Oracle spends to develop and market applications and infrastructure technologies including databases, middleware products, application development tools, business applications, collaboration products and business intelligence, compute, storage and networking products, among others, which compete with Oracle applications and infrastructure offerings. Use of our competitors’ technologies influences a customer’s purchasing decision or creates an environment that makes it less efficient to utilize or migrate to Oracle products and services. Our competitors may also adopt business practices that provide customers access to competing products and services on terms that we may not generally find acceptable, which may convince customers to purchase competitor products and services. We could lose customers if our competitors introduce new competitive products, add new functionality, acquire competitive products, reduce prices, better execute on their sales and marketing strategies, offer more flexible business practices, provide debt or equity financing to customers or form strategic alliances with other companies. Mergers, consolidations or alliances among our competitors, or acquisitions of our competitors by large companies may result in increased competition. We may also face increasing competition from open source software initiatives in which competitors may provide software and intellectual property for free. Existing or new competitors could gain sales opportunities or customers at our expense. We may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. The intense competition we face in the sales of our products and services and general economic and business conditions could put pressure on us to change our prices. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products or services or develop products that the marketplace considers more valuable, we may need to lower prices, introduce pricing models and offerings that are less favorable to us, or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. Any such changes may reduce revenues and margins and could adversely affect operating results. Additionally, the increasing prevalence of cloud delivery models offered by us and our competitors may unfavorably impact the pricing of our other cloud and license, hardware and services offerings, and we may also incur increased cloud delivery expenses as we expand our cloud operations and update our infrastructure, all of which could reduce our revenues and/or profitability. Our license support fees and hardware support fees are generally priced as a percentage of our net license fees and net new hardware products fees, respectively. Our competitors may offer lower pricing on their support offerings, which could put pressure on us to further discount our offerings. Changes to our prices and pricing policies could cause our revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. Some of our competitors may bundle products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy, commit to large customer deployments at prices that are unprofitable, or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. These practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for certain of our products. If we do not adapt our pricing models to reflect changes in customer use of our products or changes in customer demand, our revenues could decrease. The increase in open source software distribution may also cause us to change our pricing models. Any failure to offer high-quality technical support services may adversely affect our relationships with our customers and our financial results .   Our customers depend on our support organization to resolve technical issues relating to our applications and infrastructure offerings. We may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for support services or may be inefficient in our 20 resolution of customer support issues. Increased customer demand for these services, without corresponding revenues, could increase costs and adversely affect our operating results. Any failure to maintain high-quality technical support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality technical support, could adversely affect our reputation, our ability to sell and renew our applications and infrastructure offerings to existing and prospective customers, and our business, operating results, and financial position . Our cloud offerings and hardware offerings are complex, and if we cannot successfully manage this complexity, including the sourcing of technologies and components, the results of these businesses will suffer. We depend on suppliers to develop, manufacture and deliver on a timely basis the necessary technologies and components for our hardware products that we market and sell to our customers and that we use as a part of our cloud infrastructure to deliver our cloud offerings, and there are some technologies and components that can only be purchased from a single vendor due to price, quality, technology, availability or other business constraints. Our supply chain operations have been, and likely will continue to be, negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and could also be disrupted by industry consolidation and component constraints or shortages, natural disasters, political unrest, other public health crises, changes to trade policies, port stoppages or other transportation disruptions or slowdowns, or other factors affecting the countries or regions where these single source component vendors are located or where the products are being shipped. If one or more of the risks described above occurs, our cloud and license business and hardware business and related operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We are susceptible to third-party manufacturing and logistics delays, which could result in the loss of sales and customers. We outsource a majority of our manufacturing, assembly, delivery and technology of, and certain component designs for, our hardware products to a variety of companies, many of which are located outside the U.S. From time to time, these partners experience production problems, delays or cannot meet our demand for products. The conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic created, and likely will continue to create, delays in our supply chain. Third-party manufacturing and logistics delays attributable to the effects of COVID-19 caused delays in the manufacturing and fulfilment of certain customer orders during fiscal 2022. Ongoing or future delays in manufacturing could cause the loss of additional sales, delayed revenue recognition or an increase in our hardware products expenses, all of which could adversely affect the margins of our cloud and license business and hardware business. These challenges could arise if we alter our manufacturing strategies, suppliers, or locations. Our hardware revenues and profitability have declined and could continue to decline. Our hardware business may adversely affect our total revenues and overall profitability and related growth rates. We may not achieve our estimated revenue, profit or other financial projections with respect to our hardware business in a timely manner or at all due to a number of factors, including: Supply chain shortages have in some instances resulted in increases to the costs of production of our hardware products that we may not be able to pass on to our customers. In addition, we have in some instances responded to such shortages by committing to higher inventory purchases and balances relative to our historical positions in order to secure manufacturing capacity, which has in some instances increased inventory excess and obsolescence risk and adversely impacted our operating cash flows. Our periodic workforce restructurings and reorganizations can be disruptive. We are currently restructuring our workforce and in the past we have restructured or made other adjustments to our workforce in response to management changes, product changes, performance issues, changes in strategies, acquisitions and other internal 21 and external considerations. These types of restructurings have resulted , and may in the future result, in increased restructuring costs and temporary reduced productivity while the employees adjusted to their new roles and responsibilities. In addition, we may not achieve or sustain the expected growth, resource redeployment or cost savings benefits of these restructurings, or may not do so within the expected timeframe. These effects could recur in connection with future acquisitions and other restructurings , and our revenues and other results of operations could be negatively affected . We may lose key employees or may be unable to hire enough qualified employees. We rely on hiring qualified employees and the continued service of our senior management, including our Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Technology Officer and founder; our Chief Executive Officer; other members of our executive team; and other key employees. In the technology industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. We recently reopened certain of our offices around the globe and we intend to reopen other offices when it is safe to do so and local requirements allow. Our employees continue to have flexibility to choose where and how to work. Depending on their role, this means that many employees can choose their office location, as well as continue to work from home some or all of the time. While we believe this may help us engage with a wider pool of talent and may help to retain employees who want or need more flexibility, it may fail to yield these desired benefits and could also lead to increased employee burnout or negatively impact employee productivity, and it may present cybersecurity risks and additional risks for our real estate portfolio and strategy. Despite our efforts to reopen our offices in a safe manner, our employees who have opted to return to the office may nevertheless be exposed to health risks, which may expose us to potential liability. We may also experience increased compensation costs that are not offset by either improved productivity or higher sales. We may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel. With rare exceptions, we do not have long-term employment or non-competition agreements with our employees. Members of our senior management team have left Oracle over the years for a variety of reasons, and we cannot guarantee that there will not be additional departures, which may be disruptive to our operations. We continually focus on improving our cost structure by hiring personnel in countries where advanced technical expertise and other expertise are available at lower costs. When we make adjustments to our workforce, we may incur expenses associated with workforce reductions that delay the benefit of a more efficient workforce structure. We are experiencing increased competition for employees in these countries as the trend toward globalization continues, which has affected our employee retention efforts and increased our expenses in an effort to offer a competitive compensation program. In addition, changes to immigration and labor law policies may adversely impact our access to technical and professional talent. Our general compensation program includes restricted stock units and performance-based equity, which are important tools in attracting and retaining employees in our industry. If our stock price performs poorly, it may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract employees. We continually evaluate our compensation practices and consider changes from time to time, such as reducing the number of employees granted equity awards or the number of equity awards granted per employee and granting alternative forms of stock-based compensation, which may have an impact on our ability to retain employees and the amount of stock-based compensation expense that we record. Any changes in our compensation practices or those of our competitors could affect our ability to retain and motivate existing personnel and recruit new personnel. Our cloud and license, and hardware indirect sales channels could affect our future operating results. Our cloud and license, and hardware indirect channel network is comprised primarily of resellers, system integrators/implementers, consultants, education providers, internet service providers, network integrators and independent software vendors. Our relationships with these channel participants are important elements of our cloud, software and hardware marketing and sales efforts. Our financial results could be adversely affected if: 22 There can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining, expanding or developing our relationships with channel participants. If we are not successful, we may lose sales opportunities, customers and revenues. Acquisitions present many risks and we may not achieve the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of a transaction. On June 8, 2022, we closed the acquisition of Cerner Corporation (“Cerner”). We continue to review and consider strategic acquisitions of companies, products, services and technologies. We have a selective and active acquisition program and we expect to continue to make acquisitions in the future because acquisitions have been an important element of our overall corporate strategy. Risks we may face in connection with our acquisition program, such as our recent acquisition of Cerner, include: 23 The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions. The COVID-19 pandemic has affected how we and our customers are operating our respective businesses, and the duration and extent to which this will impact our future results of operations remains uncertain. The COVID-19 pandemic and efforts to control its spread have affected how we and our customers, partners and suppliers are operating our businesses. Our operations have been and may in the future be negatively affected by a range of external factors related to the COVID-19 pandemic that are not within our control. For example, the COVID-19 pandemic has led governments to implement preventative measures to contain or control further spread of the virus, such as travel restrictions, prohibitions of non-essential activities, quarantines, work-from-home directives and shelter-in-place/social distancing orders. These preventative measures led to sharp reductions in demand in certain industries in which our customers operate. It is not clear what long-term effects the COVID-19 pandemic will have on our business, including the effects on our customers, partners, suppliers and prospects. If we are not able to respond to and manage the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic effectively, our business will be harmed. We are a U.S. federal government contractor and are therefore subject to a federal executive order requiring our U.S.-based employees to be vaccinated unless they qualify for medical or religious exemptions. The executive order has been challenged in court and has been enjoined from enforcement, but its ultimate status, and the impact on our business, is uncertain. However, this requirement or other future vaccine mandates could adversely affect our workforce retention and hiring. In addition, customer vaccination requirements, as well as certain state and local vaccination mandates, may impact our staffing abilities. The negative impacts of the global COVID-19 pandemic on the broader global economy and related impacts on our customers’ business operations and their demand for our products will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. Additional impacts and risks that we are not currently aware of may arise. We are similarly unable to predict the extent of the impact of the pandemic on our customers, partners, suppliers and other partners, but a material effect on these parties could also materially and adversely affect us. In addition, we have curtailed travel expenses since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, and it may become necessary for us to increase such travel expenses prospectively in furtherance of our business initiatives. The COVID-19 pandemic may also heighten other risks described in this Risk Factors section. Data Privacy, Cybersecurity and Intellectual Property Risks If our security measures for our products and services are compromised and as a result, our data, our customers’ data or our IT systems are accessed improperly, made unavailable, or improperly modified, our products and services may be perceived as vulnerable, our brand and reputation could be damaged, the IT services we provide to our customers could be disrupted, and customers may stop using our products and services, any of which could reduce our revenue and earnings, increase our expenses and expose us to legal claims and regulatory actions. Our products and services, including Oracle Cloud Services, store, retrieve, manipulate and manage third-party data, such as our customers’ information and data, as well as our own data. We believe that Oracle in particular is a target for computer hackers and other bad actors because Oracle stores and processes large amounts of data, including in customer sectors involving particularly sensitive data such as health sciences, financial services, retail, hospitality and the government. We and our third-party vendors are regularly subject to attempts by third parties (which may include individuals or groups of hackers and sophisticated organizations, such as state-sponsored organizations, nation-states and individuals sponsored by them) to identify and exploit product and service vulnerabilities, penetrate or bypass our security measures, and gain unauthorized access to our or our customers’, partners’ and suppliers’ software, hardware and cloud offerings, networks and systems. Successful attempts by one of these malicious actors can lead to the compromise of personal information or the confidential information or data of Oracle or our customers. Attempts of this nature typically involve IT-related viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack networks, systems, products and services, exploit potential 24 security vulnerabilities of networks, systems, products and services, create system disruptions and cause shutdowns or denials of service. Third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce customers, partners, employees or suppliers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our data, our customers’, suppliers’ or partners’ data or the IT systems of Oracle, our customers, suppliers or partners. Our products and services, including our Oracle Cloud Services, may also be accessed or modified improperly as a result of customer, partner, employee, contractor or supplier error or malfeasance . If a cyber-attack or other security incident results in unauthorized access to or modification of our customers’ or suppliers’ data, other external data, our own data or our IT systems, or if the services we provide to our customers are disrupted, or if our products or services are reported to have or are perceived as having security vulnerabilities, we could incur significant expenses and suffer significant damage to our brand and reputation. If our customers lose confidence in the security and reliability of our products and services, including our cloud offerings, and perceive them to not be secure, they may decide to reduce or terminate their spend with us. In addition, cyber-attacks and other security incidents could lead to significant investigation and remediation costs, loss or destruction of information, interruption of our operations, inappropriate use of proprietary and sensitive data, lawsuits, indemnity obligations, regulatory investigations and financial penalties, and claims and increased legal liability, including in some cases contractual costs related to customer notification and fraud monitoring. Our remediation efforts may not be successful. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, or sabotage IT systems, change frequently, grow more complex over time, and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate or implement adequate measures to prevent such techniques. Our internal IT systems continue to evolve and we are often early adopters of new technologies. However, our business policies and internal security controls may not keep pace with these changes as new threats emerge. In addition, we often experience increased activity of this nature during times of instability, including during our office closures related to the COVID-19 pandemic when most of our employees were working solely from home, and our operations may be more susceptible to malfeasance due to operational changes instituted to comply with safety, health and regulatory requirements, among others. We may not discover any security breach and loss of information for a significant period of time after the security breach. Our products operate in conjunction with and are dependent on a wide variety of third-party products, components and services. If there is a security vulnerability in one of these components, and if there is a security exploit targeting it, we could face increased costs, liability claims, customer dissatisfaction, reduced revenue, or harm to our reputation or competitive position. We also have an active acquisition program and have acquired a number of companies, products, services and technologies over the years. While we make significant efforts to address any IT security issues with respect to our acquired companies, we may still inherit such risks when we integrate these companies within Oracle. Our business practices with respect to data could give rise to operational interruption, liabilities or reputational harm as a result of governmental regulation, legal requirements or industry standards relating to privacy and data protection. As regulatory focus on privacy issues continues to increase and worldwide laws and regulations concerning the handling of personal information expand and become more complex, potential risks related to data collection and use within our business will intensify. In addition, U.S. and foreign governments have enacted or are considering enacting legislation or regulations, or may in the near future interpret existing legislation or regulations, in a manner that could significantly impact our ability, as well as the ability of our customers, partners and data providers, to collect, augment, analyze, use, transfer and share personal and other information that is integral to certain services we provide. Our recent acquisition of Cerner also subjects us to additional data privacy and other related regulations governing the healthcare industry and patient information, including but not limited to regulations governing electronic health data transmissions, the treatment of patient information, healthcare fraud and healthcare information sharing. In the wake of the European Union (EU) General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the rate of global consideration and adoption of privacy laws has increased, giving rise to more global jurisdictions in which regulatory inquiries and audits may be requested of Oracle, and if we are not deemed to be in compliance, could result in enforcement actions and/or fines. This is true in the U.S. where, for example, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Utah and Virginia have enacted privacy laws, the U.S. Congress is considering several privacy bills at 25 the federal level, and a number of other state legislatures are considering privacy laws. Regulators globally are also imposing greater monetary fines for privacy violations . The GDPR, which became effective in May 2018, provides for monetary penalties of up to 4% of an organization’s worldwide revenue. These penalties can be significant. For example, one European data protection regulator has fined a major U.S. technology company €225 million for its data handling practices. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission continues to fine companies for unfair and deceptive data protection practices, and these fines may increase in size. Taken together, the changes in laws or regulations associated with the enhanced protection of personal and other types of data could greatly increase the size of potential fines related to data protection, and our cost of providing our products and services could result in changes to our business practices or even prevent us from offering certain services in jurisdictions in which we operate. Although we have implemented contracts, diligence programs, policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, partners, suppliers, data providers or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or our contracts, policies and procedures. Additionally, public perception and standards related to the privacy of personal information can shift rapidly, in ways that may affect our reputation or influence regulators to enact regulations and laws that may limit our ability to provide certain products and services . We make statements about our use and disclosure of personal information through our privacy policy, information provided on our website and press statements. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with these public statements or with U.S. federal, state, or foreign laws and regulations, including laws and regulations regulating privacy, data security, or consumer protection, public perception, standards, self-regulatory requirements or legal obligations, could result in lost or restricted business, proceedings, actions or fines brought against us or levied by governmental entities or others, or could adversely affect our business and harm our reputation. Third parties have claimed, and in the future may claim, infringement or misuse of intellectual property rights and/or breach of license agreement provisions. We periodically receive notices from, or have lawsuits filed against us by, others claiming infringement or other misuse of their intellectual property rights and/or breach of our agreements with them. These third parties include entities that do not design, manufacture, or distribute products or services or that acquire intellectual property for the sole purpose of monetization through infringement assertions. We expect to continue to receive such claims as: Responding to any such claim, regardless of its validity, could: We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, controls and contractual commitments to protect our intellectual property. Despite our efforts, these protections may be limited. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer our products or otherwise use our intellectual property. Our patents may be invalidated or circumvented. Any of our pending or future patent applications may not be issued with the claim scope we seek, if at all. In addition, the laws of some countries do not provide the same level of intellectual property protection as 26 U.S. laws and courts. If we cannot protect our intellectual property against unauthorized copying or use, or other misappropriation, we may not remain competitive . We may not receive significant revenues from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. Developing our various product offerings is expensive and the investment in the development of these offerings often involves a long return on investment cycle. An important element of our corporate strategy is to continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to research and development and related product and service opportunities, both through internal investments and the acquisition of intellectual property from acquired companies. Accelerated product and service introductions and short lifecycles require high levels of expenditures for research and development that could adversely affect our operating results if not offset by revenue increases. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. However, we do not expect to receive significant revenues from these investments for several years, if at all. Legal and Regulatory Risks Adverse litigation results could affect our business. We are subject to various legal proceedings. Litigation can be lengthy, expensive and disruptive to our operations, and can divert our management’s attention away from running our core business. The results of our litigation also cannot be predicted with certainty. Even a favorable judgment may be subject to appeals leading to protracted litigation, additional costs and the prospect that our desired outcome will be overturned. An adverse decision could result in monetary damages or injunctive relief that could affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Additional information regarding certain of the lawsuits we are involved in is discussed under Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. We may be subjected to increased taxes due to changes in U.S. or international tax laws or from adverse resolutions of tax audits and controversies. As a multinational corporation, we incur income taxes as well as non-income based taxes (such as payroll, sales, use, property and value-added taxes) in both the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant uncertainties exist with respect to the application of the various taxes to the businesses in which we engage, often requiring that we make judgments in determining our tax liabilities and worldwide provision for income taxes. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities in the U.S. and internationally, which can lead to disagreements such as regarding our intercompany transfer prices and calculations and on the applicability of withholding taxes to our cross-border transactions. Any unfavorable resolution of these tax audits and controversies could cause our tax liabilities to increase and may have a material and adverse impact on our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate. Although we believe that our income and non-income based tax estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and tax accruals. Countries around the world continually consider and make changes to relevant tax, accounting and other laws, treaties, regulations, guidance and interpretations. In the U.S., various legislative proposals, if enacted, would substantially raise U.S. income taxes on our domestic and international profits. Such unfavorable tax legislation resulting from the shifting U.S. political landscape and economic environment create the potential for added volatility in our quarterly provision for income taxes and could have a material adverse impact on our future income tax provisions and effective tax rate. For example, in November 2021, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill titled the “Build Back Better Act” under budget reconciliation procedures. While that bill, to date, has failed to advance in the Senate, it is possible that a modified version of the bill containing similar revenue provisions will be enacted, which, depending on the specific provisions included, could materially increase our future tax liabilities and effective tax rate. Other countries also continue to consider changes to their tax laws that could negatively affect us by increasing taxes imposed on our international revenue streams, operations and cross-border transactions, including the imposition of taxes targeted at digital technology businesses and changes in withholding tax rules. More fundamentally, 137 countries, including the U.S., in a global effort led by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, have politically committed to implementing tax changes that would provide 27 greater taxing rights to market jurisdictions where customers or users are located and impose minimum taxes on corporate profits. If enacted, these proposals would materially increase the level of income tax on our international profits. Our future income tax provisions and effective tax rate could materially increase if any of the foregoing potential tax changes are implemented or if other changes are made to applicable tax laws and rules in the U.S. or in other countries in which we do business. Our provision for income taxes also could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of income earned or losses incurred in jurisdictions with differing statutory tax rates, fluctuations in our stock price and level of stock-based compensation expense, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities and by other factors. Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from, and have significant operations, outside of the U.S. Compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. These laws and regulations include data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, foreign currency-related regulations, competition regulations, anti-bribery laws and other laws prohibiting payments to governmental officials such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), market access regulations, tariffs, and import, export and general trade regulations, including but not limited to economic sanctions and embargos. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business, including the loss of trade privileges. Any such violations could result in prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, could delay or prevent potential acquisitions and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. These laws can require suspension or termination of business, including financial transactions, in certain countries, territories or with certain customers and any such action in the future could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in response to the current Russia-Ukraine conflict, the U.S. and other countries have announced extensive sanctions against Russia and could impose broader sanctions or take other actions should the conflict further escalate. Oracle withdrew its operations from the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus in March 2022. Oracle recorded fiscal 2022 revenues of $248 million from these two countries, a reduction of $118 million relative to fiscal 2021. No revenues are expected to be recognized from these two countries prospectively. Compliance with these laws also requires a significant amount of management attention and effort, which may divert management’s attention from running our business operations and could harm our ability to grow our business, or may increase our expenses as we engage specialized or other additional resources to assist us with our compliance efforts. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties. We monitor our operations and investigate allegations of improprieties relating to transactions and the way in which such transactions are recorded. Where circumstances warrant, we provide information and report our findings to government authorities, and in some circumstances such authorities conduct their own investigations and we respond to their requests or demands for information. No assurance can be given that action will not be taken by such authorities or that our compliance program will prove effective. We are also subject to a variety of other risks and challenges in managing an organization operating globally, including those related to: 28 The variety of risks and challenges listed above could also disrupt or otherwise negatively impact our supply chain operations and sales of our products and services in affected countries or regions. As the majority shareholder of Oracle Financial Services Software Limited, a publicly traded company in India, and Oracle Corporation Japan, a publicly traded company in Japan, we are faced with several additional risks, including being subject to local securities regulations and being unable to exert full control that we would otherwise have if these entities were wholly-owned subsidiaries. Our sales to government clients expose us to business volatility and risks, including government budgeting cycles and appropriations, procurement regulations, governmental policy shifts, early termination of contracts, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties. We derive revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, state and local governments, and foreign governments and are subject to procurement laws relating to the award, administration and performance of those contracts. Governmental entities are variously pursuing policies that affect our ability to sell our products and services. Changes in government procurement policy, priorities, regulations, technology initiatives and/or requirements may negatively impact our potential for growth in the government sector. For example, the U.S. government imposes evolving cybersecurity requirements, including, for example, the FedRAMP authorization process and the Department of Defense (DoD) Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification. These requirements may impact our lines of business in the U.S. federal government market. Compliance with these cybersecurity requirements is complex and costly, and failure to meet, or delays in meeting, the required security controls could limit our ability to sell products and services, directly or indirectly, to the DoD and other federal and state government entities that implement similar cybersecurity requirements. We are also subject to early termination of our contracts. Many governmental entities have the right to terminate contracts at any time, without cause. For example, the U.S. federal government may terminate any of our government contracts and subcontracts at its convenience, or for default based on our performance. U.S. federal, state and local government and foreign government contracts are generally subject to government funding authorizations/appropriations. Contracts may be terminated based upon a lack of government funds. There is increased pressure on governments and their agencies, both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending as governments continue to face significant deficit reduction pressures. This may adversely impact spending on government programs. Government contracts laws and regulations impose certain risks, and contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations. If violations of law are found, they could result in civil and criminal penalties and administrative 29 sanctions, including termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business. Environmental and other related laws and regulations subject us to a number of risks and could result in significant liabilities and costs. Our cloud and hardware operations are subject to state, federal and international laws governing protection of the environment, proper handling and disposal of materials used for these products, human health and safety, the use of certain chemical substances and the labor practices of suppliers, as well as local testing and labeling requirements. Compliance with these ever-changing environmental and other laws in a timely manner could increase our product design, development, procurement, manufacturing, delivery, cloud operations and administration costs, limit our ability to manage excess and obsolete non-compliant inventory, change our sales activities, or otherwise impact future financial results of our cloud and hardware businesses. Any violation of these laws can subject us to significant liability, including fines, penalties and possible prohibition of sales of our products and services into one or more states or countries and result in a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our cloud and hardware businesses. Regulatory, market, and competitive pressures regarding the greenhouse gas emissions and energy mix for our data center operations may also grow. A significant portion of our hardware revenues come from international sales. Environmental legislation, such as the EU Directive on Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS), the EU Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE Directive) and China’s regulation on Management Methods for Controlling Pollution Caused by Electronic Information Products, among others, may increase our cost of doing business internationally and impact our hardware revenues from the EU, China and other countries with similar environmental legislation as we endeavor to comply with and implement these requirements. We have an Environmental Steering Committee (ESC) comprised of senior individuals from a wide range of Oracle business units, including our Chief Sustainability Officer who oversees our overall sustainability strategy, including climate related risk mitigation. The ESC evaluates if climate or environmental risks have the potential for significant chronic or acute impact on our core and/or strategic business functions, including service delivery and support, product development and deployment, supply chain management, facility operations, employee recruitment and retention, or brand reputation. A failure by the ESC to identify and assess these risks could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial performance and growth. We publish an annual Corporate Citizenship Report, which includes disclosure of our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) matters and goals. Our disclosures on these matters, and standards we set for ourselves or a failure to meet these standards, may potentially harm our reputation and brand. By electing to set and share publicly these corporate ESG standards, our business may also face increased scrutiny related to ESG activities. Financial Risks Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate significantly based on a number of factors that make our results of operations difficult for us to predict. Our revenues, particularly certain of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues and hardware revenues, can be difficult to forecast. A substantial portion of our cloud license, on-premise license and hardware contracts is completed in the latter part of a quarter. Because a significant portion of our cost structure is largely fixed in the short term, sales and revenue shortfalls tend to have a disproportionately negative impact on our profitability. The number of large license transactions and, to a lesser extent, hardware products transactions increases the risk of fluctuations in our quarterly results because a delay in even a small number of these transactions could cause our quarterly sales, revenues and profitability to fall significantly short of our predictions. In addition, sudden shifts in regional or global economic or political activity may cause our sales forecasts to be inaccurate. In addition, we hold a portfolio of publicly traded and privately held equity investments. Changes in the fair values of these investments are recorded as unrealized gains or losses as a component of consolidated net income in each period. The timing and amount of changes in fair value, if any, of these investments depends on factors beyond our control, including the perceived and actual performance of the companies or funds in which we invest, and are subject to the general conditions of public and private equity markets, which are uncertain and have in the past 30 varied, and may in the future vary, materially by period and may create volatility in our net income that is not reflective of our core businesses . Changes in currency exchange rates can adversely affect customer demand and our revenue and profitability. We conduct a significant number of transactions and hold cash in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. Changes in the values of major foreign currencies, particularly the Euro, Japanese Yen, Saudi Arabian Riyal, Indian Rupee and British Pound, relative to the U.S. Dollar can significantly affect our total assets, revenues, operating results and cash flows, which are reported in U.S. Dollars. Fluctuations in foreign currency rates, including the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro and most other major international currencies, adversely affects our revenue growth in terms of the amounts that we report in U.S. Dollars after converting our foreign currency results into U.S. Dollars and in terms of actual demand for our products and services as certain of these products may become relatively more expensive for foreign currency-based enterprises to purchase. In addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the U.S. Generally, our reported revenues and operating results are adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other currencies and are positively affected when the dollar weakens. In addition, our reported assets generally are adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other currencies as a portion of our consolidated cash and bank deposits, among other assets, are held in foreign currencies and reported in U.S. Dollars. In addition, we incur foreign currency transaction gains and losses, primarily related to sublicense fees and other intercompany agreements among us and our subsidiaries that we expect to cash settle in the near term, which are charged to earnings in the period incurred. We have a program which primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts designed to offset the risks associated with certain foreign currency exposures. We may suspend the program from time to time. As part of this program, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts so that increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset at least in part by gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts in an effort to mitigate the risks and volatility associated with our foreign currency transaction gains or losses. A large portion of our consolidated operations are international, and we expect that we will continue to realize gains or losses with respect to our foreign currency exposures, net of gains or losses from our foreign currency forward contracts, including the cost to obtain such contracts. For example, we will experience foreign currency gains and losses in certain instances if it is not possible or cost-effective to hedge our foreign currency exposures, if our hedging efforts are ineffective, or should we suspend our foreign currency forward contract program. Our ultimate realized loss or gain with respect to currency fluctuations will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency exposures that we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, whether we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts to offset these exposures and any related fees paid to purchase such contracts, and other factors. All of these factors could materially impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We have incurred foreign currency losses associated with the devaluation of currencies in certain highly inflationary economies relative to the U.S. Dollar. We could incur future losses in emerging market countries and other countries where we do business should their currencies become designated as highly inflationary. There are risks associated with our outstanding and future indebtedness. As of May 31, 2022, we had an aggregate of $75.9 billion of outstanding indebtedness that will mature between calendar year 2022 and calendar year 2061, we incurred additional indebtedness to finance our acquisition of Cerner in June 2022, and we intend to incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our ability to pay interest and repay the principal for our indebtedness is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations, generate sufficient cash flows to service such debt and the other factors discussed in this section. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. We may also need to refinance a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures. There is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. Should we incur future increases in interest expense, our ability to utilize certain of our foreign tax credits to reduce our U.S. federal income tax could be limited, which could unfavorably affect our provision for income taxes 31 and effective tax rate. In addition, changes to our outlook or credit rating or a withdrawal by any rating agency could negatively affect the value of both our debt and equity securities and increase the interest amounts we pay on certain outstanding or future debt. These risks could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations . Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price could become more volatile and your investment could lose value. All of the factors discussed within this Risk Factors section could affect our stock price. The timing of announcements in the public market by us or by our competitors regarding new cloud services, products, product enhancements, technological advances, acquisitions or major transactions could also affect our stock price. Changes in the amounts and frequency of share repurchases or dividends could affect our stock price. Our stock price could also be affected by factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, among others: speculation in the press, social media and the analyst community; changes in recommendations or earnings related estimates by financial analysts; changes in investors’ or analysts’ valuation measures for our stock; negative analyst surveys or channel check surveys; earnings announcements where our financial results differ from our guidance or investors’ expectations; our credit ratings and market trends unrelated to our performance. The stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. A significant drop in our stock price could also expose us to the risk of securities class action lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. We cannot guarantee that our stock repurchase program will be fully implemented or that it will enhance long-term stockholder value. In fiscal 2022, our Board of Directors approved expansions of our stock repurchase program totaling $10.0 billion. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date and we are not obligated to repurchase a specified number or dollar value of shares. Our repurchase program may be suspended or terminated at any time and, even if fully implemented, may not enhance long-term stockholder value. General Risks Economic, political and market conditions can adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability, which in turn could adversely affect our stock price. Our business is influenced by a range of factors that are beyond our control and that we have no comparative advantage in forecasting. These include: Macroeconomic developments such as the global or regional economic effects resulting from the current Russia-Ukraine conflict, increasing inflation rates and related economic curtailment initiatives, the COVID-19 pandemic, the United Kingdom leaving the EU (Brexit), evolving trade policies between the U.S. and international trade partners, or the occurrence of similar events in other countries that lead to uncertainty or instability in economic, political or market conditions could negatively affect our business, operating results, financial condition and outlook, which, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price. Any general weakening of, and related declining corporate confidence in, the global economy or the curtailment of government or corporate spending could cause current or potential customers to reduce or eliminate their IT budgets and spending, which could cause customers to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services or cause customers not to pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. In addition, international, regional or domestic political unrest and the related potential impact on global stability, terrorist attacks and the potential for other hostilities in various parts of the world, public health crises such as the COVID-19 pandemic, and natural disasters continue to contribute to a climate of economic and political 32 uncertainty that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability. These factors generally have the strongest effect on our sales of cloud license and on-premise license, hardware and related services and, to a lesser extent, also may affect our renewal rates for license support and our subscription-based cloud offerings. Business disruptions could adversely affect our operating results. A significant portion of our critical business operations are concentrated in a few geographic areas, some of which include emerging market international locations that may be less stable relative to running such business operations solely within the U.S. We are a highly automated business and a disruption or failure of our systems, supply chains and processes could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, including some of our cloud offerings, and enabling a seamless customer experience with respect to our customer facing back office processes. A major earthquake or fire, political, social or other disruption to infrastructure that supports our operations or other catastrophic event or the effects of climate change (such as increased storm severity, drought and pandemics) that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business operations, supply chains or IT systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

We begin Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations with an overview of our businesses and significant trends. This overview is followed by a summary of our critical accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. We then provide a more detailed analysis of our results of operations and financial condition for fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021. A discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 can be found in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2021, as filed with the SEC on June 21, 2021, which is available free of charge on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov and on our Investor Relations website at www.oracle.com/investor. Business Overview Oracle provides products and services that address enterprise information technology (IT) environments. Our products and services include enterprise applications and infrastructure offerings that are delivered worldwide through a variety of flexible and interoperable IT deployment models. These models include on-premise deployments, cloud-based deployments, and hybrid deployments (an approach that combines both on-premise and cloud-based deployments). Accordingly, we offer choice and flexibility to our customers and facilitate the product, service and deployment combinations that best suit our customers’ needs. Through our worldwide sales force and Oracle Partner Network, we sell to customers all over the world including businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers. We have three businesses: cloud and license; hardware; and services; each of which comprises a single operating segment. The descriptions set forth below as a part of this Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the information contained within Item 1 Business and Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report provide additional information related to our businesses and operating segments and align to how our chief operating decision makers (CODMs), which include our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Technology Officer, view our operating results and allocate resources. Cloud and License Business Our cloud and license business, which represented 85% and 84% of our total revenues in fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively, markets, sells and delivers a broad spectrum of enterprise applications and infrastructure technologies through our cloud and license offerings. Revenue streams included in our cloud and license business are: 36 Providing choice and flexibility to our customers as to when and how they deploy Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies are important elements of our corporate strategy. In recent periods, customer demand for our applications and infrastructure technologies delivered through our Oracle Cloud Services has increased. To address customer demand and enable customer choice, we have introduced certain programs for customers to pivot their applications and infrastructure licenses and the related license support to the Oracle Cloud for new deployments and to migrate to and expand with the Oracle Cloud for their existing workloads. The proportion of our cloud services and license support revenues relative to our cloud license and on-premise license revenues, hardware revenues and services revenues has increased and we expect this trend to continue. Cloud services and license support revenues represented 71% of our total revenues during each of fiscal 2022 and 2021 and 70% of our total revenues during fiscal 2020. Our cloud and license business’ revenue growth is affected by many factors, including the strength of general economic and business conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; the strategy for and competitive position of our offerings; customer satisfaction with our offerings; the continued renewal of our cloud services and license support customer contracts by the customer contract base; substantially all customers continuing to purchase license support contracts in connection with their license purchases; the pricing of license support contracts sold in connection with the sales of licenses; the pricing, amounts and volumes of licenses and cloud services sold; our ability to manage Oracle Cloud capacity requirements to meet existing and prospective customer demand; and foreign currency rate fluctuations. On a constant currency basis, we expect that our total cloud and license revenues generally will continue to increase due to: We believe these factors should contribute to future growth in our cloud and license business’ total revenues, which should enable us to continue to make investments in research and development and our cloud operations to develop, improve, increase the capacity of and expand the geographic footprint of our cloud and license products and services. Our cloud and license business’ margin has historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our cloud and license business’ revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this business are generally fixed in the short term. The historical upward trend of our cloud and license business’ revenues over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year is primarily due to the addition of new cloud services and license support contracts to the 37 customer contract base that we generally recognize as revenues ratably or based upon customer usage over the respective contractual terms and the renewal of existing customers’ cloud services and license support contracts over the course of each fiscal year that we generally recognize as revenues in a similar manner; and the historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues, which we generally recognize at a point in time upon delivery; in each case over those four fiscal quarterly periods . Hardware Business Our hardware business, which represented 7% and 8% of our total revenues in fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively, provides a broad selection of enterprise hardware products and hardware-related software products including Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, industry-specific hardware offerings, operating systems, virtualization, management and other hardware-related software, and related hardware support. Each hardware product and its related software, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a combined performance obligation. The revenues for this combined performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware product and its related software are delivered to the customer and ownership is transferred to the customer. We expect to make investments in research and development to improve existing hardware products and services and to develop new hardware products and services. The majority of our hardware products are sold through indirect channels, including independent distributors and value-added resellers. Our hardware support offerings provide customers with unspecified software updates for software components that are essential to the functionality of our hardware products and associated software products. Our hardware support offerings can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services. Hardware support contracts are entered into and renewed at the option of the customer, are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees and are generally recognized as revenues ratably as the hardware support services are delivered over the contractual terms. We generally expect our hardware business to have lower operating margins as a percentage of revenues than our cloud and license business due to the incremental costs we incur to produce and distribute these products and to provide support services, including direct materials and labor costs. Our quarterly hardware revenues are difficult to predict. Our hardware revenues, cost of hardware and hardware operating margins that we report are affected by many factors, including our manufacturing partners’ abilities to timely manufacture or deliver a few large hardware transactions, with this factor becoming more pronounced in recent periods due to global supply chain constraints for certain technology components; our strategy for and the position of our hardware products relative to competitor offerings; customer demand for competing offerings, including cloud infrastructure offerings; the strength of general economic and business conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; whether customers decide to purchase hardware support contracts at or in close proximity to the time of hardware product sale; the percentage of our hardware support contract customer base that renews its support contracts and the close association between hardware products, which have a finite life, and customer demand for related hardware support as hardware products age; customer decisions to either maintain or upgrade their existing hardware infrastructure to newly developed technologies that are available; and foreign currency rate fluctuations . Services Business Our services business, which represented 8% of our total revenues in each of fiscal 2022 and 2021, helps customers and partners maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies. We believe that our services are differentiated based on our focus on Oracle technologies, extensive experience, broad sets of intellectual property and best practices. Our services offerings include consulting services and advanced customer services. Our services business has lower margins than our cloud and license and hardware businesses. Our services revenues are affected by many factors including our strategy for, and the competitive position of, our services; customer demand for our cloud and license and hardware offerings and the related services that we may market and sell in connection with these offerings; general economic conditions; 38 governmental budgetary constraints; personnel reductions in our customers’ IT departments; tighter controls over customer discretionary spending; and foreign currency rate fluctuations . Acquisitions Our selective and active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy. Historically, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of complementary companies, products, services and technologies. As compelling opportunities become available, we may acquire companies, products, services and technologies in furtherance of our corporate strategy. On December 20, 2021, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with Cerner Corporation (Cerner), a provider of digital information systems used within hospitals and health systems that are designed to enable medical professionals to deliver better healthcare to individual patients and communities, for a preliminary estimated purchase price of approximately $28.2 billion. The transaction closed on June 8, 2022. Notes 2 and 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included elsewhere in this Annual Report, provide additional information related to our acquisition of Cerner and our other recent acquisitions. We believe that we can fund our future acquisitions with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. We estimate the financial impact of any potential acquisition with regard to earnings, operating margin, cash flows and return on invested capital targets, among others, before deciding to move forward with an acquisition. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) as set forth in the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s Accounting Standards Codification (ASC), and we consider the various staff accounting bulletins and other applicable guidance issued by the SEC. GAAP, as set forth within the ASC, requires us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. To the extent that there are differences between these estimates, judgments or assumptions and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. The accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments and assumptions and which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include: Our senior management has reviewed our critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Finance and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report includes additional information about our critical and other accounting policies. Revenue Recognition The most critical judgments required in applying ASC 606, Revenue Recognition from Customers , and our revenue recognition policy relate to the determination of distinct performance obligations and the evaluation of the standalone selling price (SSP) for each performance obligation. 39 Many of our customer contracts include multiple performance obligations. Judgment is required in determining whether each performance obligation within a customer contract is distinct. Oracle products and services generally function on a standalone basis and do not require a significant amount of integration or interdependency. Therefore, multiple products and services contained within a customer contract are generally considered to be distinct and are not combined for revenue recognition purposes. We allocate the transaction price for each customer contract to each performance obligation based on the relative SSP (the determination of SSP is discussed below) for each performance obligation within each contract. We recognize the amount of transaction price allocated to each performance obligation within a customer contract as revenue as each performance obligation is satisfied . We use historical sales transaction data and judgment, among other factors, in determining the SSP for products and services. For substantially all performance obligations except cloud licenses and on-premise licenses, we are able to establish the SSP based on the observable prices of products or services sold separately in comparable circumstances to similar customers. We typically establish an SSP range for our products and services, which is reassessed on a periodic basis or when facts and circumstances change. SSP for our products and services can evolve over time due to changes in our pricing practices that are influenced by intense competition, changes in demand for our products and services, and economic factors, among others. Our cloud licenses and on-premise licenses have not historically been sold on a standalone basis, as substantially all customers elect to purchase license support contracts at the time of a license purchase. License support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net fees paid by the customer to purchase the license. We are unable to establish the SSP for our cloud licenses and on-premise licenses based on observable prices given the same products are sold for a broad range of amounts (that is, the selling price is highly variable) and a representative SSP is not discernible from past transactions or other observable evidence. As a result, the SSP for a cloud license and an on-premise license included in a contract with multiple performance obligations is generally determined by applying a residual approach whereby all other performance obligations within a contract are first allocated a portion of the transaction price based upon their respective SSPs, with any residual amount of transaction price allocated to cloud license and on-premise license revenues . Business Combinations We apply the provisions of ASC 805, Business Combinations (ASC 805), in accounting for our acquisitions. ASC 805 requires that we evaluate whether a transaction pertains to an acquisition of assets, or to an acquisition of a business. A business is defined as an integrated set of assets and activities that is capable of being conducted and managed for the purpose of providing a return to investors. Asset acquisitions are accounted for by allocating the cost of the acquisition to the individual assets and liabilities assumed on a relative fair value basis; whereas the acquisition of a business requires us to recognize separately from goodwill the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at the acquisition date fair values. Goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess of consideration transferred over the net of the acquisition date fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. While we use our best estimates and assumptions to accurately value assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date as well as any contingent consideration, where applicable, our estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the business acquisition date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of a business acquisition’s measurement period or final determination of the values of assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to our consolidated statements of operations. Accounting for business combinations requires our management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially at the acquisition date, including our estimates for intangible assets, pre-acquisition contingencies and any contingent consideration, where applicable. Although we believe that the assumptions and estimates we have made in the past have been reasonable and appropriate, they are based in part on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results. 40 For a given business acquisition, we may identify certain pre-acquisition contingencies as of the acquisition date and may extend our review and evaluation of these pre-acquisition contingencies throughout the measurement period in order to obtain sufficient information to assess whether we include these contingencies as a part of the fair value estimates of assets acquired and liabilities assumed and, if so, to determine their estimated amounts. If we cannot reasonably determine the fair value of a non-income tax related pre-acquisition contingency by the end of the measurement period, which is generally the case given the nature of such matters, we will recognize an asset or a liability for such pre-acquisition contingency if: (1) it is probable that an asset existed or a liability had been incurred at the acquisition date and (2) the amount of the asset or liability can be reasonably estimated. Subsequent to the measurement period or final determination of the net asset values for the business combination, whichever comes first, changes in our estimates of such contingencies will affect earnings and could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial position. In addition, uncertain tax positions and tax related valuation allowances assumed in a business combination are initially estimated as of the acquisition date. We reevaluate these items quarterly based upon facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date with any adjustments to our preliminary estimates being recorded to goodwill if identified within the measurement period. Subsequent to the measurement period or our final determination of the tax allowance’s or contingency’s estimated value, whichever comes first, changes to these uncertain tax positions and tax related valuation allowances will affect our provision for income taxes in our consolidated statement of operations and could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. Goodwill and Intangible Assets—Impairment Assessments We review goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate its carrying value may not be recoverable. We make certain judgments and assumptions to determine our reporting units and in allocating shared assets and liabilities to determine the carrying values for each of our reporting units. Judgment in the assessment of qualitative factors of impairment include cost factors; financial performance; legal, regulatory, contractual, political, business, and other factors; entity specific factors; industry and market considerations, macroeconomic conditions, and other relevant events and factors affecting the reporting unit. To the extent we determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, a quantitative test is then performed. Performing a quantitative goodwill impairment test includes the determination of the fair value of a reporting unit and involves significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include, among others, revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk-adjusted discount rates, future economic and market conditions, and the determination of appropriate market comparables. We make judgments about the recoverability of purchased finite lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may exist. In such situations, we are required to evaluate whether the net book values of our finite lived intangible assets are recoverable. We determine whether finite lived intangible assets are recoverable based upon the forecasted future cash flows that are expected to be generated by the lowest level associated asset grouping. Assumptions and estimates about future values and remaining useful lives of our intangible assets are complex and subjective and include, among others, forecasted undiscounted cash flows to be generated by certain asset groupings. These assumptions and estimates can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors such as industry and economic trends and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy and our internal forecasts. Accounting for Income Taxes Judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Some of these uncertainties arise as a consequence of revenue sharing and cost reimbursement arrangements among related entities, the process of identifying items of revenues and expenses that qualify for preferential tax 41 treatment, and the segregation of foreign and domestic earnings and expenses to avoid double taxation. Although we believe that our estimates are reasonable, the final tax outcome of these matters could be different from that which is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Such differences could have a material effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period in which such determination is made. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In order for us to realize our deferred tax assets, we must be able to generate sufficient taxable income in those jurisdictions where the deferred tax assets are located. We consider future growth, forecasted earnings, future taxable income, the mix of earnings in the jurisdictions in which we operate, historical earnings, taxable income in prior years, if carryback is permitted under the law, and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in determining the need for a valuation allowance. In the event we were to determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets valuation allowance would be charged to earnings in the period in which we make such a determination, or goodwill would be adjusted at our final determination of the valuation allowance related to an acquisition within the measurement period. If we later determine that it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax assets would be realized, we would reverse the applicable portion of the previously provided valuation allowance as an adjustment to our provision for income taxes at such time. We calculate our current and deferred tax provision based on estimates and assumptions that could differ from the actual results reflected in income tax returns filed during the subsequent year. Adjustments based on filed returns are generally recorded in the period when the tax returns are filed and the global tax implications are known, which can materially impact our effective tax rate. The amount of income tax we pay is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. Our estimate of the potential outcome for any uncertain tax issue may require certain judgments. A description of our accounting policies associated with tax related contingencies assumed as a part of a business combination is provided under “Business Combinations” above. For those tax related contingencies that are not a part of a business combination, we account for these uncertain tax issues pursuant to ASC 740, Income Taxes , which contains a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The first step is to determine if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained in an audit, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement. Although we believe that we have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given with respect to the final outcome of these matters. We adjust reserves for our uncertain tax positions due to changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit, judicial rulings, and refinement of estimates or realization of earnings or deductions that differ from our estimates. To the extent that the final outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences generally will impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which such a determination is made. Our provisions for income taxes include the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate and also include the related interest and penalties. Legal and Other Contingencies We are currently involved in various claims and legal proceedings. Quarterly, we review the status of each significant matter and assess our potential financial exposure. A description of our accounting policies associated with contingencies assumed as a part of a business combination is provided under “Business Combinations” above. For legal and other contingencies that are not a part of a business combination, we accrue a liability for an estimated loss if the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable, and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether the amount of an exposure is reasonably estimable. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time the accruals are made. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to our pending claims and 42 litigation and may revise our estimates. Such revisions in the estimates of the potential liabilities could have a material impact on our results of ope rations and financial position. Results of Operations Recent Global Events Oracle withdrew its operations from the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus in March 2022. Neither of the aforementioned countries, nor Ukraine, have composed or are expected to compose a material portion of Oracle’s total consolidated revenues, net income, net assets, or workforce. We serve hundreds of thousands of customers globally across a broad geographic and industry base. We are profitable and generate a large amount of positive cash flow from our operations, and we do not believe the current posture of the Russia-Ukraine situation will jeopardize either of these characteristics of our business. Other impacts due to this rapidly evolving situation are currently unknown and could potentially subject our business to materially adverse consequences. For a more complete discussion of the risks we encounter in our business, please refer to Item 1A Risk Factors included elsewhere in this Annual Report. In addition, for a discussion of the impacts on and risks to our business from COVID-19, please refer to the risks included in Item 1A Risk Factors in this Annual Report and the information presented below in Results of Operations in this Item 7. Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information In our fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 results of operations discussion below, we provide an overview of our total consolidated revenues, total consolidated operating expenses and total consolidated operating margin, all of which are presented on a GAAP basis. We also present a GAAP-based discussion below for substantially all of the other expense items as presented in our consolidated statements of operations that are not directly attributable to our three businesses. In addition, we discuss below the fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 results of each of our three businesses—cloud and license, hardware and services—which are our operating segments as defined pursuant to ASC 280, Segment Reporting . The financial reporting for our three businesses that is presented below is presented in a manner that is consistent with that used by our CODMs. Our operating segment presentation below reflects revenues, direct costs and sales and marketing expenses that correspond to and are directly attributable to each of our three businesses. We also utilize these inputs to calculate and present a segment margin for each of our three businesses in the discussion below. Consistent with our internal management reporting processes, the below operating segment presentation for fiscal 2021 is noted to include any revenues adjustments related to cloud services and license support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities but were not recognized in our consolidated statements of operations for fiscal 2021 due to certain business combination accounting requirements that were eliminated in fiscal 2022. Refer to “Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges” below for additional discussion of these items and Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report for a reconciliation of the summations of our total operating segment revenues as presented in the discussion below to total revenues as presented per our consolidated statements of operations for fiscal 2021. In addition, research and development expenses, general and administrative expenses, stock-based compensation expenses, amortization of intangible assets, certain other expense allocations, acquisition related and other expenses, restructuring expenses, interest expense, non-operating expenses or income, net and (provision for) benefit from income taxes are not attributed to our three operating segments because our management does not view the performance of our three businesses including such items and/or it is impracticable to do so. Refer to “Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges” below for additional discussion of certain of these items and Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report for a 43 reconciliation of the summations of total segment margin as presented in the discussion below to total income before income taxes as presented per our consolidated statements of operations for fiscal 2022 and 2021 . We experienced COVID-19 related impacts to our businesses during fiscal 2022 and 2021. Certain of these historical impacts to our operating results are further discussed below. Any future impacts are currently unknown. Separately, Constant Currency Presentation Our international operations have provided and are expected to continue to provide a significant portion of each of our businesses’ revenues and expenses. As a result, each of our businesses’ revenues and expenses and our total revenues and expenses will continue to be affected by changes in the U.S. Dollar against major international currencies. In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed, excluding the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations, we compare the percent change in the results from one period to another period in this Annual Report using constant currency disclosure. To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S. Dollars are converted into U.S. Dollars at constant exchange rates (i.e., the rates in effect on May 31, 2021, which was the last day of our prior fiscal year) rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the respective periods. For example, if an entity reporting in Euros had revenues of 1.0 million Euros from products sold on May 31, 2022 and 2021, our financial statements would reflect reported revenues of $1.07 million in fiscal 2022 (using 1.07 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period) and $1.22 million in fiscal 2021 (using 1.22 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period). The constant currency presentation, however, would translate the fiscal 2022 results using the fiscal 2021 exchange rate and indicate, in this example, no change in revenues during the period. In each of the tables below, we present the percent change based on actual, unrounded results in reported currency and in constant currency. 44 Total Revenues and Operating Expenses Excluding the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations, our total revenues increased in fiscal 2022 due to growth in our cloud and license business’ revenues and services business’ revenues, which were partially offset by a decline in our hardware business’ revenues. The constant currency increase in our cloud and license business’ revenues during fiscal 2022 relative to fiscal 2021 was attributable to growth in our cloud services and license support revenues and cloud license and on-premise license revenues as customers purchased our applications and infrastructure technologies via cloud and license deployment models. Customers also renewed their related cloud contracts and license support contracts to continue to gain access to the latest versions of our technologies and to receive support services. The constant currency increase in our services business’ revenues during fiscal 2022 relative to fiscal 2021 was attributable to an increase in revenues for each of our primary services offerings. The constant currency decrease in our hardware business’ revenues during fiscal 2022 relative to fiscal 2021 was due to the emphasis we placed on the marketing and sale of our growing cloud-based infrastructure technologies and the de-emphasis of our sales and marketing efforts for certain of our non-strategic hardware products and related support services. In constant currency, the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific regions contributed 68%, 22% and 10%, respectively, to our total revenue growth during fiscal 2022. Excluding the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations, our total operating expenses increased during fiscal 2022 relative to fiscal 2021 substantially due to certain litigation related charges recorded to acquisition related and other expenses as further described in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. In addition, our total operating expenses increased due to higher cloud services and license support expenses, which were primarily due to higher employee related expenses and infrastructure investments that were made to support the increase in our cloud and license business’ revenues; higher services expenses, which increased primarily due to higher employee related and external contractor expenses; and higher research and development and general and administrative expenses, both of which increased primarily due to higher employee related expenses. These constant currency expense increases were partially offset by lower amortization of intangible assets, lower restructuring expenses and by $250 million of gains from operating asset sales, which were allocated across most of our operating expense lines during fiscal 2022. During fiscal 2022 and 45 2021, we curtailed certain variable expenditures including employee travel expenses, among others, primarily in response to COVID-19. We expect certain of these expenses may normalize in future periods provided global economic and health conditions improve . In constant currency, our total operating margin and total operating margin as a percentage of total revenues decreased in fiscal 2022, relative to fiscal 2021, substantially due to the unfavorable impact of the fiscal 2022 litigation related charges referenced above, partially offset by higher fiscal 2022 total margin generated by our operating segments and the aforementioned gains from operating asset sales during fiscal 2022. Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges To supplement our consolidated financial information, we believe that the following information is helpful to an overall understanding of our past financial performance and prospects for the future. Our operating results reported pursuant to GAAP included the following business combination accounting adjustments and expenses related to acquisitions and certain other expense and income items that affected our GAAP net income: 46 Cloud and License Business Our cloud and license business engages in the sale and marketing of our applications and infrastructure technologies that are delivered through various deployment models and include: Oracle license support offerings; Oracle Cloud Services offerings; and Oracle cloud license and on-premise license offerings. License support revenues are typically generated through the sale of applications and infrastructure license support contracts related to cloud licenses and on-premise licenses; are purchased by our customers at their option; and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual term, which is generally one year. Our cloud services deliver applications and infrastructure technologies on a subscription basis via cloud-based deployment models that we develop, provide unspecified updates and enhancements for, deploy, host, manage and support. Revenues for our cloud services are generally recognized over the contractual term, which is generally one to three years, or in the case of usage model contracts, as the cloud services are consumed. Cloud license and on-premise license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses, generally on a perpetual basis, to use our database and middleware and our applications software products within cloud and on-premise IT environments and are generally recognized up front at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer to download and use. We continue to place significant emphasis, both domestically and internationally, on direct sales through our own sales force. We also continue to market certain of our offerings through indirect channels. Costs associated with our cloud and license business are included in cloud services and license support expenses, and sales and marketing expenses. These costs are largely personnel and infrastructure related including the cost of providing our cloud services and license support offerings, salaries and commissions earned by our sales force for the sale of our cloud and license offerings, and marketing program costs. 47 Excluding the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations, our cloud and license business’ total revenues increased in fiscal 2022 relative to fiscal 2021 due to growth in our cloud services and license support revenues and growth in our cloud license and on-premise license revenues as customers purchased our applications and infrastructure technologies via cloud and license deployment models and renewed their related cloud contracts and license support contracts to continue to gain access to the latest versions of our technologies and to receive support for which we delivered such cloud and support services during fiscal 2022. Our total cloud services revenues increased to $10.8 billion in fiscal 2022 from $8.9 billion in fiscal 2021 due to growth in our Oracle SaaS and OCI offerings. In constant currency, the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific regions contributed 71%, 18% and 11%, respectively, of the constant currency revenue growth for this business in fiscal 2022. In constant currency, our total cloud and license business’ expenses increased in fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 due to higher cloud services and license support expenses, primarily due to higher employee related expenses due to higher headcount and higher technology infrastructure expenses to support the increase in our cloud and license business’ revenues; and higher sales and marketing expenses, primarily due to higher employee related expenses from higher headcount. These constant currency expense increases were partially offset by an allocation of a portion of the gains from fiscal 2022 operating asset sales as described above. Our cloud services and license support expenses have grown in recent periods and we expect this growth to continue to accelerate in 48 fiscal 2023 as we increase our existing data center capacity and establish data centers in new geographic locations in order to meet current and expected customer demand . Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our cloud and license business’ total margin increased in fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 due to fiscal 2022 increases in total revenues for this business, while total fiscal 2022 margin as a percentage of revenues for this business decreased slightly due to expenses growth. Hardware Business Our hardware business’ revenues are generated from the sales of our Oracle Engineered Systems, server, storage, and industry-specific hardware offerings. The hardware product and related software, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a combined performance obligation. The revenues for this combined performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware product is delivered to the customer and ownership is transferred to the customer. Our hardware business also earns revenues from the sale of hardware support contracts purchased by our customers at their option and that are generally recognized as revenues ratably as the hardware support services are delivered over the contractual term, which is generally one year. The majority of our hardware products are sold through indirect channels such as independent distributors and value-added resellers and we also market and sell our hardware products through our direct sales force. Operating expenses associated with our hardware business include the cost of hardware products, which consists of expenses for materials and labor used to produce these products by our internal manufacturing operations or by third-party manufacturers, warranty and related expenses and the impact of periodic changes in inventory valuation, including the impact of inventory determined to be excess and obsolete; the cost of materials used to repair customer products with eligible support contracts; the cost of labor and infrastructure to provide support services; and sales and marketing expenses, which are largely personnel related and include variable compensation earned by our sales force for the sales of our hardware offerings. Our constant currency hardware revenues decreased in fiscal 2022 relative to fiscal 2021, primarily due to our continued emphasis on the marketing and sale of our cloud-based infrastructure technologies and strategic hardware offerings and the de-emphasis of our sales and marketing efforts for certain of our nonstrategic hardware products, which resulted in reduced sales volumes of certain of our hardware product lines and also 49 impacted the volume of hardware support contracts sold in recent periods. Our hardware business’ revenues were also adversely impacted during fiscal 2022 and 2021 due to the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, including global supply chain shortages for technology components that resulted in certain manufacturing delays, and any such prospective impacts are unknown. Geographically, we experienced constant currency revenue declines in the Americas and the Asia Pacific regions during fiscal 2022, partially offset by constant currency revenue increases in the EMEA region . Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, total hardware expenses were flat in fiscal 2022, relative to the corresponding prior year period. In constant currency, our hardware business’ total margin and total margin as a percentage of revenues decreased in fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 primarily due to lower total revenues for this business. Services Business Our services offerings are designed to help maximize the performance of customer investments in Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies and substantially include our consulting services and advanced customer services offerings. Services revenues are generally recognized over time as the services are performed. The cost of providing our services consists primarily of personnel related expenses, technology infrastructure expenditures, facilities expenses and external contractor expenses. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total services revenues increased in fiscal 2022 relative to fiscal 2021 primarily due to revenue increases in each of our primary services offerings. In constant currency, the Americas, the EMEA and the Asia Pacific regions contributed 53%, 44% and 3%, respectively, to the revenue growth for this business in fiscal 2022. In constant currency, total services expenses increased in fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 primarily due to higher employee related expenses due to higher headcount and higher external contractor expenses. In constant currency, our services business’ total margin increased during fiscal 2022 relative to fiscal 2021 due to higher total revenues for this business. In constant currency, total margin as a percentage of total services revenues was flat during fiscal 2022 relative to fiscal 2021 . Research and Development Expenses : Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel related expenditures. We intend to continue to invest significantly in our research and development efforts because, in our judgment, they are essential to maintaining our competitive position. 50 On a constant currency basis, total research and development expenses increased in fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 primarily due to higher employee related expenses due to increased headcount and higher stock-based compensation expenses. This constant currency expense increase was partially offset by an allocation of gains from fiscal 2022 operating asset sales as described above. General and Administrative Expenses : General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel related expenditures for IT, finance, legal and human resources support functions. Excluding the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations, total general and administrative expenses increased in fiscal 2022 primarily due to higher stock-based compensation expenses. This constant currency expense increase was partially offset by an allocation of gains from fiscal 2022 operating asset sales as described above. Amortization of Intangible Assets : Substantially all of our intangible assets were acquired through our business combinations. We amortize our intangible assets over, and monitor the appropriateness of, the estimated useful lives of these assets. We also periodically review these intangible assets for potential impairment based upon relevant facts and circumstances. Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report has additional information regarding our intangible assets and related amortization. Amortization of intangible assets decreased in fiscal 2022 due to a reduction in expenses associated with certain of our intangible assets that became fully amortized, partially offset by a smaller amount of additional amortization from intangible assets that we acquired in connection with our recent acquisitions. Acquisition Related and Other Expenses : Acquisition related and other expenses consist of personnel related costs for transitional and certain other employees, certain business combination adjustments, including adjustments after the measurement period has ended, and certain other operating items, net. 51 On a constant currency basis, acquisition related and other expenses increased during fiscal 2022 due to litigation related charges of $4.7 billion, which we generally do not expect to recur, as further described in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Restructuring Expenses : Restructuring expenses resulted from the execution of management approved restructuring plans that were generally developed to improve our cost structure and/or operations, often in conjunction with our acquisition integration strategies and/or other strategic initiatives. Restructuring expenses consist of employee severance costs, contract termination costs and certain other exit costs to improve our cost structure prospectively. For additional information regarding our restructuring plans, see Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Restructuring expenses in fiscal 2022 primarily related to our 2022 Restructuring Plan. Restructuring expenses in fiscal 2021 primarily related to our 2019 Restructuring Plan, which is substantially complete. Our management approved, committed to and initiated the 2022 Restructuring Plan and the 2019 Restructuring Plan in order to restructure and further improve efficiencies in our operations. We may incur additional restructuring expenses in future periods due to the initiation of new restructuring plans or from changes in estimated costs associated with existing restructuring plans . The majority of the initiatives undertaken by our 2022 Restructuring Plan were effected to implement our continued emphasis in developing, marketing, selling and delivering our cloud-based offerings. Certain of the cost savings realized pursuant to our 2022 Restructuring Plan initiatives were offset by investments in resources and geographies that better address the development, marketing, sale and delivery of our cloud ‑ based offerings including investments in the development and delivery of our second ‑ generation cloud infrastructure. Interest Expense : Interest expense increased in fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 primarily due to higher average borrowings during fiscal 2022 that resulted from our issuance of $15.0 billion of senior notes in March 2021 partially offset by lower interest expense that resulted from $8.3 billion of scheduled repayments made during fiscal 2022. 52 Non- Operating (Expenses) Income , net : Non-operating (expenses) income, net consists primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange losses, the noncontrolling interests in the net profits of our majority-owned subsidiaries (primarily Oracle Financial Services Software Limited and Oracle Corporation Japan), net gains and losses related to equity investments including losses attributable to equity method investments and net other income and expenses, including net unrealized gains and losses from our investment portfolio related to our deferred compensation plan, and non-service net periodic pension income and losses . In constant currency, we incurred non-operating expenses, net in fiscal 2022 in comparison to non-operating income, net that we recorded in fiscal 2021. Non-operating expenses, net increased during fiscal 2022 primarily due to higher net foreign currency losses; higher net losses from equity investments, primarily due to an unrealized gain of $299 million recorded in fiscal 2021 for certain non-marketable equity securities with no such corresponding gain recorded in fiscal 2022; higher losses in fiscal 2022 associated with equity investments for which we follow the equity method of accounting; and higher other expense, net, which was primarily attributable to higher unrealized investment losses associated with certain marketable equity securities that we held for employee benefit plans, and for which an equal and offsetting amount was recorded to our operating expenses during the same period . (Provision for) Benefit from Income Taxes : Our effective income tax rates for each of the periods presented were the result of the mix of income earned in various tax jurisdictions that apply a broad range of income tax rates. Refer to Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report for a discussion regarding the differences between the effective income tax rates as presented for the periods below and the U.S. federal statutory income tax rates that were in effect during these periods. Future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by an unfavorable shift of earnings weighted to jurisdictions with higher tax rates, by unfavorable changes in tax laws and regulations, by adverse rulings in tax related litigation, or by shortfalls in stock-based compensation realized by employees relative to stock-based compensation that was recorded for book purposes, among others. Provision for income taxes increased during fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021, primarily due to the absence of a favorable impact of $2.3 billion net tax benefit arising from an increase in a net deferred tax asset associated with a partial realignment of our legal entity structure that resulted in the intra-group transfer of certain intellectual property rights in fiscal 2021. This unfavorable variance was partially offset by lower income taxes of $824 million associated with lower pre-tax income in fiscal 2022 that was primarily attributable to certain litigation related charges as further described in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report and, to a much lesser extent, a favorable jurisdictional mix of earnings partially offset by a decrease in unrecognized tax benefits due to settlements with tax authorities and other events. 53 Liquidity and Capital Resources Working capital : The decrease in working capital as of May 31, 2022 in comparison to May 31, 2021 was primarily due to $16.2 billion of cash used for repurchases of our common stock, $4.7 billion of cash paid for certain litigation related charges that we generally do not expect to recur, $3.8 billion of long-term senior notes that were reclassified to current liabilities, cash used to pay dividends to our stockholders and cash used for capital expenditures during fiscal 2022. These unfavorable impacts were partially offset by the favorable impacts to our net current assets resulting from our net income, net cash proceeds of $318 million associated with the sale of certain operating assets, and cash proceeds from stock option exercises, all of which occurred during fiscal 2022. Our working capital may be impacted by some or all of the aforementioned factors in future periods, the amounts and timing of which are variable. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities : Cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of deposits held at major banks, money market funds and other securities with original maturities of 90 days or less. Marketable securities consist of time deposits, marketable equity securities and certain other securities. The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at May 31, 2022 in comparison to May 31, 2021 was primarily due to $16.2 billion of settled repurchases of our common stock, $8.3 billion of debt repayments, $4.7 billion of cash paid for certain litigation related charges that we generally do not expect to recur, payments of cash dividends to our stockholders and cash used for capital expenditures. These cash outflows during fiscal 2022 were partially offset by certain cash inflows generated by our normal business operations, from the sales of certain operating assets, and from stock option exercises during fiscal 2022. Cash flows from operating activities : Our largest source of operating cash flows is cash collections from our customers following the purchase and renewal of their license support agreements. Payments from customers for these license support agreements are generally received near the beginning of the contracts’ terms, which are generally one year in length. Over the course of a fiscal year, we also have historically generated cash from the sales of new licenses, cloud services, hardware offerings and other services. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are typically for employee related expenditures, material and manufacturing costs related to the production of our hardware products, taxes, interest payments and leased facilities. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased during fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 primarily due to lower net income that was primarily the result of cash payments made in connection with certain litigation related charges that we generally do not expect to recur and certain other cash unfavorable working capital changes, net, in each case during fiscal 2022 in comparison to fiscal 2021. Cash flows from investing activities : The changes in cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to the timing of our purchases, maturities and sales of our investments in marketable securities, and investments in capital and other assets, including certain intangible assets, to support our growth. Net cash provided by investing activities was $11.2 billion during fiscal 2022 in comparison to net cash used for investing activities of $13.1 billion during fiscal 2021. The increase in net cash provided by investing activities during fiscal 2022 was primarily due to a decrease in the cash used for the purchases of marketable securities and 54 other investments, partially offset by a decrease in cash proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable securities and other investments and an increase in cash used for capital expenditures, in each case during fiscal 2022 in comparison to fiscal 2021 . Cash flows from financing activities : The changes in cash flows from financing activities primarily relate to borrowings and repayments related to our debt instruments, stock repurchases, dividend payments and net proceeds related to employee stock programs. Net cash used for financing activities during fiscal 2022 increased compared to fiscal 2021 primarily due to an issuance of $15.0 billion of senior notes in fiscal 2021 with no corresponding issuance of senior notes in fiscal 2022, higher debt repayments, higher net cash used for our employee stock program, and higher payments of dividends, partially offset by lower stock repurchases, in each case during fiscal 2022 in comparison to fiscal 2021. Free cash flow : To supplement our statements of cash flows presented on a GAAP basis, we use non-GAAP measures of cash flows on a trailing 4-quarter basis to analyze cash flows generated from our operations. We believe that free cash flow is also useful as one of the bases for comparing our performance with our competitors. The presentation of non-GAAP free cash flow is not meant to be considered in isolation or as an alternative to net income as an indicator of our performance, or as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. We calculate free cash flow as follows: Recent Financing Activities : Credit Agreements and Related Borrowings : In March 2022, we entered into a $6.0 billion, five-year revolving credit agreement (the Revolving Credit Agreement) and a $15.7 billion, 364-day delayed draw term loan credit agreement (the Bridge Credit Agreement). In June 2022, in connection with the acquisition of Cerner, we borrowed $15.7 billion pursuant to the Bridge Credit Agreement. Additional information is included in Notes 7 and 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Cash Dividends : In fiscal 2022, we declared and paid cash dividends of $1.28 per share that totaled $3.5 billion. In June 2022, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.32 per share of our outstanding common stock payable on July 26, 2022 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on July 12, 2022. Future declarations of dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to the final determination of our Board of Directors. Common Stock Repurchase Program : Our Board of Directors has approved a program for us to repurchase shares of our common stock. On December 9, 2021, we announced that our Board of Directors approved an expansion of our stock repurchase program by an additional $10.0 billion. As of May 31, 2022, approximately $9.4 billion remained available for stock repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program. We repurchased 185.8 million shares for $16.2 billion, 329.2 million shares for $21.0 billion, and 361.0 million shares for $19.2 billion in fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Our stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of our repurchase activity will depend on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for acquisitions and dividend payments, our debt repayment obligations or repurchases of our debt, our stock price, and economic and market conditions. Our stock repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases and pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan. Our stock repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time. 55 Contractual Obligations : Our l argest contractual obligations as of May 31, 202 2 consisted of: In addition, as of May 31, 2022, we had $8.9 billion of gross unrecognized income tax benefits, including related interest and penalties, recorded on our consolidated balance sheet, the nature of which is uncertain with respect to settlement or release with the relevant tax authorities, although we believe it is reasonably possible that certain of these liabilities could be settled or released during fiscal 2023. We are involved in claims and legal proceedings, which are inherently uncertain with respect to outcomes, estimates and assumptions that we make as of each reporting period, are inherently unpredictable, and many aspects are out of our control. Notes 2, 7, 13 and 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report include additional information regarding our most material contractual obligations and contingencies. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances, cash generated from operations, and the Revolving Credit Agreement and the Bridge Credit Agreement will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures and contractual obligations requirements. In addition, we believe that we could fund our future acquisitions, dividend payments and repurchases of common stock or debt with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. Stock-Based Awards Our stock-based compensation program is a key component of the compensation package we provide to attract and retain certain of our talented employees and align their interests with the interests of existing stockholders. We recognize that stock-based awards dilute existing stockholders and have sought to control the number of stock-based awards granted while providing competitive compensation packages. Consistent with these dual goals, our cumulative potential dilution since June 1, 2019 has been a weighted-average annualized rate of 1.3% per year. The potential dilution percentage is calculated as the average annualized new stock-based awards granted and assumed, net of stock-based awards forfeited by employees leaving the company, divided by the weighted-average outstanding shares during the calculation period. This maximum potential dilution will only result if all stock-based awards vest and, if applicable, are exercised. Of the outstanding stock options at May 31, 2022, which generally have a ten-year exercise period, all have exercise prices lower than the market price of our common stock on such date. In recent years, our stock repurchase program has more than offset the dilutive effect of our stock-based compensation program. However, we may modify the levels of our stock repurchases in the future depending on a number of factors, including the amount of cash we have available for acquisitions, to pay dividends, to repay or repurchase indebtedness or for other purposes. As of May 31, 2022, the maximum potential dilution from all outstanding stock-based awards, regardless of when granted and regardless of whether vested or unvested, was 8.4%. During fiscal 2022, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors reviewed and approved the annual organization-wide stock-based award grants to selected employees; all stock-based award grants to senior officers; and any individual grant of restricted stock units of 62,500 or greater. Each member of a separate executive officer committee, referred to as the Plan Committee, was allocated a fiscal 2022 equity budget that could be used throughout the fiscal year to grant equity within his or her organization, subject to certain limitations established by the Compensation Committee. 56 S tock-based award s activity from June 1, 201 9 through May 31, 20 2 2 is summarized as follows (shares in millions): Recent Accounting Pronouncements For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements, if any, and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, if any, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report.