********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

​ Our future performance is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties.  Although the risks described below are the risks that we believe are material, there may also be risks of which we are currently unaware, or that we currently regard as immaterial based upon the information available to us that later may prove to be material.  Interested parties should be aware that the occurrence of the events described in these risk factors, elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.  Actual results, therefore, may materially differ from anticipated results described in our forward-looking statements. ​ RISKS RELATED TO THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC ​ The ongoing occurrence of COVID-19, or any other such widespread public health crisis, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic and its global spread, including in the U.S., has had a significant impact on the U.S. and world economies.  The public health concerns resulting from the pandemic have created significant uncertainty, economic disruption and volatility, all of which have impacted and may continue to impact our business.  We may be required to take significant actions to mitigate any adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, including, but not limited to, reduced staffing and increased expenses.  We are unable to predict the ongoing short-term and long-term impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows due to several factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to: ​ 15 ​ The above factors and uncertainties, in addition to others we are not currently aware of, may result in adverse impacts to our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. ​ RISKS SPECIFIC TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY ​ Deteriorating economic conditions may adversely impact demand for our products, reduce access to credit and cause our customers and others, with which we do business, to suffer financial hardship, all of which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Although demand for many of our products is primarily non-discretionary in nature and tend to be purchased by consumers out of necessity, rather than on an impulse basis, our sales are impacted by constraints on the economic health of our customers.  The economic health of our customers is affected by many factors, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, currency exchange rates, taxation, fuel prices, unemployment levels and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending, such as a prolonged public health crisis or pandemic, such as the COVID-19 pandemic.  Many of these factors are outside of our control.  Our customers’ purchases, including purchases of our products, could decline during periods when income is lower, when prices increase in response to rising costs, or in periods of actual or perceived unfavorable economic conditions or political uncertainty.  If any of these events occur, or if unfavorable economic conditions challenge the consumer environment, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. ​ Overall demand for products sold in the automotive aftermarket is dependent upon many factors including the total number of vehicle miles driven in the U.S., the total number of registered vehicles in the U.S., the age and quality of these registered vehicles and the level of unemployment in the U.S.  Changes in vehicle technology used by the original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) on future vehicles, including but not limited to electric, hybrid and internal combustion engines, may result in less frequent repairs, parts lasting longer or elimination of certain repairs.  In addition, restrictions on access to telematics, diagnostic tools and repair information imposed by the OEMs or by governmental regulations may force vehicle owners to rely on dealers to perform maintenance and repairs.  Adverse changes in these factors could lead to a decreased level of demand for our products, which could negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. ​ In addition, economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, suppliers, logistics and other service providers and financial institutions that are counterparties to our credit facilities.  Furthermore, the ability of these third parties to overcome these difficulties may increase.  If third parties, on whom we rely for merchandise, are unable to overcome difficulties resulting from the deterioration in economic conditions, the cause of which could include a prolonged public health crisis or pandemic, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, and provide us with the merchandise we need, or if counterparties to our credit facilities do not perform their obligations, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. ​ The automotive aftermarket business is highly competitive, and we may have to risk our capital to remain competitive, all of which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Both the DIY and professional service provider portions of our business are highly competitive, particularly in the more densely populated areas that we serve.  Some of our competitors are larger than we are and have greater financial resources.  In addition, some of our competitors are smaller than we are, but have a greater presence than we do in a particular market.  Online and mobile platforms may allow customers to quickly compare prices and product assortments between us and a range of competitors, which could result in pricing pressure.  Some online competitors may have a lower cost structure than we do, as a result of our strategy of providing an exceptional in-store experience and superior parts availability supported by our extensive store network and robust, regional distribution footprint, which could also create pricing pressure.  We may have to expend more resources and risk additional capital to remain competitive and our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected.  For a list of our principal competitors, see the “Competition” section of Item 1 of this annual report on Form 10-K. ​ We are sensitive to regional economic and weather conditions that could impact our costs and sales. Our business is sensitive to national and regional economic and weather conditions and natural disasters.  Unusually inclement weather, such as significant rain, snow, sleet, freezing rain, flooding, seismic activity and hurricanes, has historically discouraged our customers from visiting our stores during the affected period and reduced our sales, particularly to DIY customers.  Extreme weather conditions, such as extreme heat and extreme cold temperatures, may enhance demand for our products due to increased failure rates of our customers’ automotive parts, while temperate weather conditions may have a lesser impact on failure rates of automotive parts.  In addition, our stores and DCs located in coastal regions may be subject to increased insurance claims resulting from regional weather conditions and our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. ​ 16 ​ A change in the relationship with any of our key suppliers, the unavailability of our key products at competitive prices or changes in trade policies could affect our financial health. Our business depends on developing and maintaining close relationships with our suppliers and on our suppliers’ ability or willingness to sell quality products to us at favorable prices and terms.  Many factors outside of our control may harm these relationships and the ability or willingness of these suppliers to sell us products on favorable terms.  For example, financial or operational difficulties that our suppliers may face could increase the cost of the products we purchase from them or our ability to source products from them.  In addition, the trend toward consolidation among automotive parts suppliers, as well as the off-shoring of manufacturing capacity to foreign countries, may disrupt or end our relationship with some suppliers and could lead to less competition and result in higher prices.  We could also be negatively impacted by suppliers who might experience work stoppages, labor strikes, a prolonged public health crisis or pandemic, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, or other interruptions to, or difficulties in the, manufacture or supply of the products we purchase from them.  Changes in U.S. trade policies, practices, tariffs or taxes could affect our ability and our suppliers’ ability to source product at current volumes and/or prices. ​ Business interruptions in our distribution centers or other facilities may affect our store hours, stability of our computer systems, and/or availability and distribution of merchandise, which may affect our business. Weather, terrorist activities, war or other disasters, or the threat of them, may result in the closure of one or more of our DCs or other facilities, or may adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory to our stores on a nightly basis.  This may affect our ability to timely provide products to our customers, resulting in lost sales or a potential loss of customer loyalty.  Some of our merchandise is imported from other countries and these goods could become difficult or impossible to bring into the United States, and we may not be able to obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar prices.  Such a disruption in revenue could potentially have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. ​ We rely extensively on our computer systems to manage inventory, process transactions and timely provide products to our customers.  Our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches or other catastrophic events.  If our systems are damaged or fail to function properly, we may experience loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to manage inventories or process customer transactions.  Such a disruption of our systems could negatively impact revenue and potentially have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. ​ Failure to protect our brand and reputation could have a material adverse effect on our brand name, business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We believe our Company has built an excellent reputation as a leading retailer in the automotive aftermarket industry.  We believe our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to preserve, grow and leverage the value of our brand.  Our reputation is based, in part, on perceptions of subjective qualities; negative publicity involving the Company, our merchandise or our industry in general that erode customer trust or confidence could adversely affect our reputation and business.  Failure to comply with ethical, social, product, labor, health and safety, accounting or environmental standards, or existing or future laws or regulations could also jeopardize our reputation and potentially lead to various adverse actions from consumer or environmental groups, employees or regulatory bodies, which could require us to incur substantial legal fees and costs.  In addition, negative claims or publicity, including the availability of information and opinions on social media, as its impact is immediate, could adversely affect our reputation.  The opportunity for the rapid dissemination of information, including inaccurate and inflammatory information and opinions, is virtually limitless and easily accessible.  Damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence for any of these or other reasons could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. ​ Risks associated with international operations could result in additional costs and inefficiencies. In addition to many of the risks we face in our U.S. operations, international operations present a unique set of risks and challenges, including local laws and customs, U.S. laws applicable to foreign operations and political and socio-economic conditions.  Our ability to operate effectively and grow in international markets could be impacted by these risks resulting in legal liabilities, additional costs and the distraction of management’s attention.  Compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and protection of intellectual property rights surrounding items such as tradenames and trademarks in foreign jurisdictions can pose significant challenges. ​ In addition, our operations in international markets are conducted primarily in the local currency of those countries.  Given that our Consolidated Financial Statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, amounts of assets, liabilities, net sales and other revenues and expenses denominated in local currencies must be translated into U.S. dollars using exchange rates for the current period.  As a result, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations in those rates may adversely impact our financial performance. ​ 17 ​ RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK ​ Risks related to us and unanticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could affect our stock price. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful indicators of our future operating results and should not be relied on as an indication of future performance.  If our quarterly operating results fail to meet the expectations of analysts, the trading price of our common stock could be negatively affected.  We cannot be certain that our growth plans and business strategies will be successful or that they will successfully meet the expectations of these analysts.  If we fail to adequately address any of these risks or difficulties, our stock price would likely suffer. ​ The market price of our common stock may be volatile and could expose us to securities class action litigation. The stock market and the price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations based upon general economic and market conditions and potentially being targeted through the selling and buying of our common stock by a group of individuals, whose interests and reasoning behind such actions may not align with an average market participant.  The market price of our common stock may also be affected by our ability to meet analysts’ expectations and failure to meet such expectations, even slightly, could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. ​ In addition, stock market volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies.  Downturns in the stock market may cause the price of our common stock to decline.  In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against such companies.  If similar litigation were initiated against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could have an adverse effect on our business. ​ RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDEBTEDNESS AND FINANCING ​ Our debt levels could adversely affect our cash flow and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. We have an unsecured revolving credit facility and unsecured senior notes, which could have important consequences to our financial health.  For example, our level of indebtedness could, among other things, ​ In addition, the terms of our financing obligations include restrictions, such as affirmative, negative and financial covenants, conditions on borrowing and subsidiary guarantees.  A failure to comply with these restrictions could result in a default under our financing obligations or could require us to obtain waivers from our lenders for failure to comply with these restrictions.  The occurrence of a default that remains uncured or the inability to secure a necessary consent or waiver could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ​ A downgrade in our credit rating would impact our cost of capital and could impact the market value of our unsecured senior notes, as well as limit our access to attractive supplier financing programs. Credit ratings are an important component of our cost of capital.  These ratings are based upon, among other factors, our financial strength.  Our current credit ratings provide us with the ability to borrow funds at favorable rates.  A downgrade in our current credit rating from either rating agency could adversely affect our cost of capital by causing us to pay a higher interest rate on borrowed funds under our unsecured revolving credit facility and a higher facility fee on commitments under our unsecured revolving credit facility.  A downgrade in our current credit rating could also adversely affect the market price and/or liquidity of our unsecured senior notes, preventing a holder from selling the unsecured senior notes at a favorable price, as well as adversely affect our ability to issue new notes in the future.  In addition, a downgrade in our current credit rating could limit the financial institutions willing to commit funds to our supplier financing programs at attractive rates.  Decreased participation in our supplier financing programs would lead to an increase in working capital needed to operate the business, adversely affecting our cash flows. 18 ​ ​ GENERAL RISKS ​ We cannot assure future growth will be achieved. We believe that our ability to open additional, profitable stores at a high growth rate will be a significant factor in achieving our growth objectives for the future.  Our ability to accomplish our growth objectives is dependent, in part, on matters beyond our control, such as weather conditions, zoning and other issues related to new store site development, the availability of qualified management personnel and general business and economic conditions.  We cannot be sure that our growth plans for 2021 and beyond will be achieved.  Failure to achieve our growth objectives may negatively impact the trading price of our common stock.  For a discussion of our growth strategies, see the “Growth Strategy” section of Item 1 of this annual report on Form 10-K. ​ In order to be successful, we will need to retain and motivate key employees. Our success has been largely dependent on the efforts of certain key personnel.  In order to be successful, we will need to retain and motivate executives and other key employees.  Experienced management and technical personnel are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense.  We must also continue to motivate employees and keep them focused on our strategies and goals.  Our business, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by the unexpected loss of the services of one or more of our key employees.  We cannot be sure that we will be able to continue to attract qualified personnel, which could cause us to be less efficient and, as a result, may adversely impact our sales and profitability.  For a discussion of our management, see the “Business” section of Item 1 of this annual report on Form 10-K. ​ Risks associated with future acquisitions may not lead to expected growth and could result in increased costs and inefficiencies. We expect to continue to make acquisitions as an element of our growth strategy.  Acquisitions involve certain risks that could cause our actual growth and profitability to differ from our expectations.  Examples of such risks include the following: ​ We may fail, or be unable to, discover liabilities of businesses that we acquire for which we or the subsequent owner or operator may be liable. ​ A breach of customer, supplier, Team Member or Company information could damage our reputation or result in substantial additional costs or possible litigation. Our business involves the storage of information about our customers, suppliers, Team Members and the Company, some of which is entrusted to third-party service providers and vendors.  We and our third-party service providers and vendors have taken reasonable and appropriate steps to protect this information; however, these security measures may be breached due to cyber-attacks, Team Member error, system compromises, fraud, hacking or other intentional or unintentional acts, which could result in unauthorized parties gaining access to such information.  The methods used to obtain unauthorized access are constantly evolving and may be difficult to anticipate or detect for long periods of time.  If we experience a significant data security breach, we could be exposed to damage to our reputation, additional costs, lost sales, litigation or possible regulatory action.  In addition, the regulatory environment related to information security and privacy is constantly evolving, and compliance with those requirements could result in additional costs.  There is no guarantee that the procedures that we and our third-party service providers and vendors have implemented to protect against unauthorized access to secured data are adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches, and such a breach could potentially have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. ​ Litigation, governmental proceedings, environmental legislation and regulations and employment legislation and regulations may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are, and in the future may become, involved in lawsuits, regulatory inquiries and governmental and other legal proceedings, arising out of the ordinary course of our business.  The damages sought against us in some of these litigation proceedings may be material and may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. ​ 19 ​ Environmental legislation and regulations, like the initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions and bills related to climate change, could adversely impact all industries.  While it is uncertain whether these initiatives will become law, additional climate change related mandates could potentially be forthcoming and these matters, if enacted, could adversely impact our costs, by, among other things, increasing fuel prices. ​ Our business is subject to employment legislation and regulations, including requirements related to minimum wage.  Our success depends, in part, on our ability to manage operating costs and identify opportunities to reduce costs.  Our ability to meet labor needs, while controlling costs is subject to external factors, such as minimum wage legislation.  A violation of, or change in, employment legislation and/or regulations could hinder our ability to control costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. ​

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

​ In Management’s Discussion and Analysis, we provide a historical and prospective narrative of our general financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and certain other factors that may affect our future results, including ​ The review of Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be made in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements, related notes and other financial information, forward-looking statements and other risk factors included elsewhere in this annual report. ​ OVERVIEW ​ We are a specialty retailer of automotive aftermarket parts, tools, supplies, equipment and accessories in the United States and Mexico.  We are one of the largest U.S. automotive aftermarket specialty retailers, selling our products to both DIY customers and professional service providers – our “dual market strategy.”  Our stores carry an extensive product line consisting of new and remanufactured automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories, a complete line of auto body paint and related materials, automotive tools and professional service provider service equipment. ​ Our extensive product line includes an assortment of products that are differentiated by quality and price for most of the product lines we offer.  For many of our product offerings, this quality differentiation reflects “good,” “better,” and “best” alternatives.  Our sales and total gross profit dollars are highest for the “best” quality category of products.  Consumers’ willingness to select products at a higher point on the value spectrum is a driver of sales and profitability in our industry.  We have ongoing initiatives focused on marketing and training to educate customers on the advantages of ongoing vehicle maintenance, as well as “purchasing up” on the value spectrum. ​ Our stores also offer enhanced services and programs to our customers, including used oil, oil filter and battery recycling; battery, wiper and bulb replacement; battery diagnostic testing; electrical and module testing; check engine light code extraction; loaner tool program; drum and rotor resurfacing; custom hydraulic hoses; and professional paint shop mixing and related materials.  As of December 31, 2020, we operated 5,594 stores in 47 U.S. states and 22 stores in Mexico. ​ We are influenced by a number of general macroeconomic factors that impact both our industry and our consumers, including, but not limited to, fuel costs, unemployment trends, interest rates and other economic factors.  Due to the nature of these macroeconomic factors, we are unable to determine how long current conditions will persist and the degree of impact future changes may have on our business.  Macroeconomic factors, such as increases in the U.S. unemployment rate, and demand drivers specific to the automotive aftermarket, such as U.S. miles driven, have been pressured as a result of responses to the COVID-19 pandemic, such as stay at home orders, work from home arrangements and reduced travel.  Gradual reopening processes across many markets positively impacted our performance beginning in the second quarter and continuing into our third and fourth quarters; however, we are unable to predict the ongoing and future impact of the pandemic on broader economic conditions or our industry. ​ We believe the key drivers of current and future long-term demand for the products sold within the automotive aftermarket include the number of U.S. miles driven, number of U.S. registered vehicles, new light vehicle registrations and average vehicle age. ​ Number of Miles Driven The number of total miles driven in the U.S. influences the demand for repair and maintenance products sold within the automotive aftermarket.  In total, vehicles in the U.S. are driven approximately three trillion miles per year, resulting in ongoing wear and tear and a corresponding continued demand for the repair and maintenance products necessary to keep these vehicles in operation.  According to the Department of Transportation, the number of total miles driven in the U.S. increased 0.9% and 0.4% in 2019 and 2018, respectively, and through February of 2020, year-to-date miles driven increased 2.1%.  Miles driven dramatically declined beginning in March of 2020, and through December 2020, year-to-date miles driven decreased 13.2%, as a result of the measures taken by state and local 26 ​ governments in response to COVID-19 and the impact to economic activity as consumers responded to COVID-19.  Further government measures or consumer and business behavior could continue to have a negative impact on miles driven, but we are unable to predict the duration and severity of the impact to our business. ​ Size and Age of the Vehicle Fleet The total number of vehicles on the road and the average age of the vehicle population heavily influence the demand for products sold within the automotive aftermarket industry.  As reported by The Auto Care Association, the total number of registered vehicles increased 10.4% from 2009 to 2019, bringing the number of light vehicles on the road to 278 million by the end of 2019.  For the year ended December 31, 2020, the seasonally adjusted annual rate of light vehicle sales in the U.S. (“SAAR”) was approximately 16.3 million.  In the past decade, vehicle scrappage rates have remained relatively stable, ranging from 4.1% to 5.7% annually.  As a result, over the past decade, the average age of the U.S. vehicle population has increased, growing 18.0%, from 10.0 years in 2009 to 11.8 years in 2019. ​ We believe this increase in average age can be attributed to better engineered and manufactured vehicles, which can be reliably driven at higher mileages due to better quality power trains, interiors and exteriors and the consumer’s willingness to invest in maintaining these higher-mileage, better built vehicles.  As the average age of vehicles on the road increases, a larger percentage of miles are being driven by vehicles that are outside of a manufacturer warranty.  These out-of-warranty, older vehicles generate strong demand for automotive aftermarket products as they go through more routine maintenance cycles, have more frequent mechanical failures and generally require more maintenance than newer vehicles.  We believe consumers will continue to invest in these reliable, higher-quality, higher-mileage vehicles and these investments, along with an increasing total light vehicle fleet, will support continued demand for automotive aftermarket products. ​ We remain confident in our ability to gain market share in our existing markets and grow our business in new markets by focusing on our dual market strategy and the core O’Reilly values of hard work and excellent customer service. ​ KEY EVENTS AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS ​ Several key events have had or may have a significant impact on our operations and are identified below: ​ After the close of business on November 29, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Mayasa, a specialty retailer of automotive aftermarket parts headquartered in Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico pursuant to a stock purchase agreement.  At the time of the acquisition, Mayasa operated six distribution centers, 21 Orma Autopartes stores and served over 2,000 independent jobber locations in 28 Mexican states.  The results of Mayasa’s operations have been included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements and results of operations beginning from the date of acquisition. ​ The COVID-19 pandemic has caused significant disruption to the economy, placing pressure on our business beginning in mid-March 2020, as stay at home orders and/or business restrictions were put in place in most cities, counties and states.  This pressure continued until mid-April when our customers began to receive Economic Impact Payments under the CARES Act.  We believe these government stimulus payments and enhanced unemployment benefits, along with the easing of stay at home orders and the associated market reopenings beginning in May and June and favorable industry dynamics, such as consumers investing in existing vehicles, led to strong demand for our products beginning in April and continuing through the remainder of 2020. ​ We have been deemed an essential service provider in the communities we serve, and have taken many steps to promote the health and safety of our customers and Team Members, while keeping our stores open and operating to meet our customers’ critical needs during the COVID-19 crisis.  In addition, when our business was pressured at the end of the first quarter, we took steps to strengthen our liquidity and mitigate the expected ongoing impact on our operations and financial performance. ​ These actions include, but are not limited to: 27 ​ ​ While we continue to make adjustments as we navigate the current environment, we are unable to predict how long the current crisis will last or the extent of the impact on our customers and our business. ​ RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ​ The following table includes income statement data as a percentage of sales, which is computed independently and may not compute to presented totals due to rounding differences, for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019: ​ 2020 Compared to 2019 ​ Sales: Sales for the year ended December 31, 2020, increased $1.45 billion, or 14%, to $11.60 billion from $10.15 billion for the same period in 2019.  Comparable store sales for stores open at least one year increased 10.9% and 4.0% for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.  Comparable store sales are calculated based on changes in sales for U.S. domestic stores open at least one year and exclude sales of specialty machinery, sales to independent parts stores and sales to Team Members, as well as sales from Leap Day in the year ended December 31, 2020.  Online sales, resulting from ship-to-home orders and pickup in-store orders, for stores open at least one year, are included in the comparable store sales calculation. ​ 28 ​ The following table presents the components of the increase in sales for the year ended December 31, 2020 (in millions): ​ We believe the increased sales are the result of store growth, the acquisition of Mayasa, sales from one additional day due to Leap Day for the year ended December 31, 2020, the high levels of customer service provided by our well-trained and technically proficient Team Members, superior inventory availability, including same day and over-night access to inventory in our regional distribution centers, enhanced services and programs offered in our stores, a broader selection of product offerings in most stores with a dynamic catalog system to identify and source parts, a targeted promotional and advertising effort through a variety of media and localized promotional events, continued improvement in the merchandising and store layouts of our stores, compensation programs for all store Team Members that provide incentives for performance and our continued focus on serving both DIY and professional service provider customers.  The Company incurred significant sales headwinds beginning in the middle of March and through the middle of April, as a result of COVID-19; however, the government stimulus payments, enhanced unemployment benefits, easing of stay at home orders and the associated market reopenings beginning in May and June, when combined with favorable industry dynamics, such as consumers investing in existing vehicles, led to strong demand for our products over the remainder of the second quarter and continuing through the remainder of 2020. ​ Our comparable store sales increase for the year ended December 31, 2020, was driven by increases in average ticket and transaction counts for both DIY and professional service provider customers.  Beginning in April of 2020, average ticket values, primarily for DIY customers, benefited from consumers spending additional time and money repairing and maintaining their vehicles in response to the COVID-19 and economic environment.  In addition, the improvement in average ticket values was the result of the increasing complexity and cost of replacement parts necessary to maintain the current population of better-engineered and more technically advanced vehicles.  These better-engineered, more technically advanced vehicles require less frequent repairs, as the component parts are more durable and last for longer periods of time.  This decrease in repair frequency creates pressure on customer transaction counts; however, when repairs are needed, the cost of replacement parts is, on average, greater, which is a benefit to average ticket values.  Average ticket values also benefited from increased selling prices on a SKU-by-SKU basis, as compared to the same period in 2019, driven by increases in acquisition cost of inventory, which were passed on in market prices. ​ As the COVID-19 stay at home orders and business restrictions took effect in our markets in the middle of March 2020, transaction counts for both DIY and professional service provider customers turned sharply negative, with a larger impact realized on the professional side of the business, as we believe a larger segment of the demographic served by our professional service provider customers is more likely to accommodate working from home than a typical DIY customer.  However, in the middle of April 2020, as the government stimulus and enhanced unemployment benefits reached consumers, we saw a reversal in transaction counts, with a more immediate impact realized on the DIY side of the business.  Improved transaction counts continued through December 2020, as states implemented reopening plans and many individuals returned to work.  We cannot predict what continued impact the COVID-19 pandemic will have to our business in the future given the high degree of uncertainty as to the duration and severity of the pandemic, the potential future changes to economic reopening plans and the mitigating impact of government stimulus for consumers. ​ We opened 155 net, new U.S. stores and one new store in Mexico during the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to opening 200 net, new U.S. stores during the year ended December 31, 2019.  In addition, on January 1, 2019, we began operating 33 acquired Bennett stores, and during the year ended December 31, 2019, we merged 13 of these acquired Bennett stores into existing O’Reilly locations and rebranded the remaining 20 Bennett stores as O’Reilly stores.  After the close of business on November 29, 2019, we acquired 21 stores from Mayasa.  As of December 31, 2020, we operated 5,594 stores in 47 U.S. states and 22 stores in Mexico compared to 5,439 U.S. stores in 47 states and 21 stores in Mexico at December 31, 2019.  We anticipate new store growth will be 165 to 175 net, new store openings in 2021. 29 ​ ​ Gross profit: Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2020, increased 13% to $6.09 billion (or 52.4% of sales) from $5.39 billion (or 53.1% of sales) for the same period in 2019.  The increase in gross profit dollars for the year ended December 31, 2020, was primarily the result of sales from new stores, the increase in comparable store sales at existing stores, sales from the acquired Mayasa stores and one additional day due to Leap Day.  The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of sales for the year ended December 31, 2020, was due to the comparable period in the prior year receiving a benefit from selling through inventory purchased prior to tariff related, industry-wide acquisition cost increases, and corresponding selling price increases, and the lower gross margin sales from the acquired Mayasa stores, due to their large independent jobber customer base, partially offset by a greater percentage of total sales generated from DIY customers, which carry a higher gross margin than professional service provider sales and acquisition cost reductions.  We determine inventory cost using the last-in, first-out (“LIFO”) method, but have, over time, seen our LIFO reserve balance exhausted as a result of cumulative historical acquisition cost decreases.  Our policy is to not write up inventory in excess of replacement cost, and accordingly, we are effectively valuing our inventory at replacement cost. ​ Selling, general and administrative expenses: Selling, general and administrative expenses (“SG&A”) for the year ended December 31, 2020, increased 6% to $3.67 billion (or 31.6% of sales) from $3.47 billion (or 34.2% of sales) for the same period in 2019.  The increase in total SG&A dollars for the year ended December 31, 2020, was the result of facilities and vehicles to support our increased sales and store count, expense from the acquired Mayasa stores and one additional day due to Leap Day.  The decrease in SG&A as a percentage of sales for the year ended December 31, 2020, was principally due to leverage of store operating costs on strong comparable store sales growth combined with our cautionary approach and strict expense control measures in response to the onset of the COVID-19 environment. ​ Operating income: As a result of the impacts discussed above, operating income for the year ended December 31, 2020, increased 26% to $2.42 billion (or 20.8% of sales) from $1.92 billion (or 18.9% of sales) for the same period in 2019. ​ Other income and expense: Total other expense for the year ended December 31, 2020, increased 17% to $153 million (or 1.3% of sales), from $130 million (or 1.3% of sales) for the same period in 2019.  The increase in total other expense for the year ended December 31, 2020, was the result of increased interest expense on higher average outstanding borrowings. ​ Income taxes: Our provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2020, increased 29% to $514 million (22.7% effective tax rate) from $399 million (22.3% effective tax rate) for the same period in 2019.  The increase in our provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2020, was the result of higher taxable income and lower excess tax benefits from share-based compensation, partially offset by a greater benefit from tax credit equity investments in 2020, as compared to the same period in 2019.  The increase in our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2020, was the result of the lower excess tax benefits from share-based compensation, partially offset by a greater benefit from tax credit equity investments in 2020, as compared to the same period in 2019. ​ Net income: As a result of the impacts discussed above, net income for the year ended December 31, 2020, increased 26% to $1.75 billion (or 15.1% of sales), from $1.39 billion (or 13.7% of sales) for the same period in 2019. ​ Earnings per share: Our diluted earnings per common share for the year ended December 31, 2020, increased 32% to $23.53 on 74 million shares from $17.88 on 78 million shares for the same period in 2019. ​ 2019 Compared to 2018 ​ A discussion of the changes in our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2019, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2018, has been omitted from this Form 10-K but may be found in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of the annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on February 28, 2020, which is available free of charge on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov by searching with our ticker symbol “ORLY” or at our internet address, www.OReillyAuto.com , by clicking “Investor Relations” located at the bottom of the page. ​ 30 ​ LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES ​ Our long-term business strategy requires capital to open new stores, fund strategic acquisitions, expand distribution infrastructure, operate and maintain our existing stores and may include the opportunistic repurchase of shares of our common stock through our Board-approved share repurchase program.  The primary sources of our liquidity are funds generated from operations and borrowed under our unsecured revolving credit facility.  Decreased demand for our products or changes in customer buying patterns could negatively impact our ability to generate funds from operations.  Additionally, decreased demand or changes in buying patterns could impact our ability to meet the debt covenants of our credit agreement and, therefore, negatively impact the funds available under our unsecured revolving credit facility. ​ As we operated amid uncertainty and disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, we have demonstrated our ability to take prudent steps to support the future stability and financial flexibility of our Company.  At the onset of disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, our Teams took decisive action to reduce costs and conserve cash, which included delaying capital investments, reducing operating costs and temporarily suspending our share repurchase program from March 16, 2020, through May 28, 2020.  As we are unable to determine the duration or potential increase in severity of this crisis, we cannot predict its future impacts on our ability to generate funds from operations or maintain liquidity, and accordingly, we will continue to make adjustments as we navigate the current and expected environment. ​ Liquidity and related ratios: The following table highlights our liquidity and related ratios as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 (dollars in millions): ​ Current assets increased 17%, current liabilities increased 18%, total debt increased 6% and total equity decreased 65% from 2019 to 2020.  The increase in current assets was primarily due to the increase in cash, resulting from our strong sales in 2020, and inventory, resulting from our distribution expansion projects and the opening of 156 net, new stores in 2020.  The increase in current liabilities was primarily due to an increase in accounts payable, which was the result of higher inventory turns on strong sales, and accrued benefits and withholdings, which was the result of deferred payroll tax payments under the CARES Act and Team member incentive payments.  Our accounts payable to inventory ratio was 114.5% as of December 31, 2020, as compared to 104.4% for the same period in 2019.  The increase in total debt was attributable to the issuance of $500 million of 4.200% Senior Notes due 2030 and $500 million of 1.750% Senior Notes due 2031, partially offset by the redemption of $500 million aggregate principal amount of unsecured 4.875% Senior Notes due 2021 and no borrowings on our revolving credit facility at December 31, 2020.  The decrease in total equity was due to an increase in retained deficit, resulting from a greater impact of share repurchase activity under our share repurchase program, partially offset by net income for the year ended December 31, 2020. ​ 31 ​ The following table identifies cash provided by/(used in) our operating, investing and financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 (in thousands): ​ Cash and cash equivalents balances held outside of the U.S. were $11.5 million and $5.7 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, which was generally utilized to support the liquidity needs of foreign operations in Mexico. ​ Operating activities: The increase in net cash provided by operating activities in 2020 compared to 2019 was primarily due to a decrease in net inventory investment, a larger increase in net income, an increase in income taxes payable and an increase in accrued benefits and withholdings.  The larger decrease in net inventory investment in 2020, as compared to 2019, was primarily attributable to the strong comparable store sales growth and the resulting benefit to inventory turns.  The increase in income taxes payable in 2020, compared to the decrease in income taxes payable in 2019, was primarily the result of the realization of credits from renewable energy tax credit investments and an income taxes payable position at the end of 2020, versus a prepaid income taxes position at the end of 2019.  The increase in accrued benefits and withholdings is primarily due to the deferral of payroll tax payments under the CARES Act and the timing of Team Member incentive payments. ​ Investing activities: The decrease in net cash used in investing activities in 2020 compared to 2019 was primarily the result of a decrease in capital expenditures and a decrease in other investing activities, partially offset by an increase in investments in tax credit equity investments.  Total capital expenditures were $466 million in 2020 versus $628 million in 2019, and the decrease was primarily related to lower new store project development spending in 2020, as compared to 2019, and the level of distribution expansion projects in 2020, as compared to 2019.  The decrease in other investment activities was due to the acquisition of Mayasa in 2019.  The increase in investments in tax credit equity investments was the result of entering into more renewable energy tax credit investments in 2020, as compared to 2019, primarily for the purpose of receiving renewable energy tax credits. ​ We opened 156 and 200 net, new stores in 2020 and 2019, respectively.  In addition, on January 1, 2019, we began operating 33 acquired Bennett stores, and during the year ended December 31, 2019, we merged 13 of these acquired Bennett stores into existing O’Reilly locations and rebranded the remaining 20 Bennett stores as O’Reilly stores.  After the close of business on November 29, 2019, we acquired 21 stores from Mayasa.  We plan to open 165 to 175 net, new stores in 2021.  The current costs associated with the opening of a new store, including the cost of land acquisition, building improvements, fixtures, vehicles, net inventory investment and computer equipment, are estimated to average approximately $1.5 million to $1.8 million; however, such costs may be significantly reduced where we lease, rather than purchase, the store site. ​ Financing activities: The increase in net cash used in financing activities in 2020 compared to 2019 was primarily attributable to an increase in repurchases of our common stock during 2020, compared to 2019, the redemption of $500 million aggregate principal amount of unsecured 4.875% Senior Notes due 2021 and no borrowings on our revolving credit facility at December 31, 2020, partially offset by higher proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt in 2020, compared to 2019. ​ 2019 Compared to 2018: A discussion of the changes in our operating activities, liquidity activities and financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2019, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2018, has been omitted from this Form 10-K but may be found in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of the annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended 32 ​ December 31, 2019, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on February 28, 2020, which is available free of charge on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov by searching with our ticker symbol “ORLY” or at our internet address, www.OReillyAuto.com, by clicking “Investor Relations” located at the bottom of the page. ​ Unsecured revolving credit facility: On April 5, 2017, the Company entered into a credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”).  The Credit Agreement provides for a five-year $1.2 billion unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”) arranged by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., which is scheduled to mature in April 2022.  The Credit Agreement includes a $200 million sub-limit for the issuance of letters of credit and a $75 million sub-limit for swing line borrowings.  As described in the Credit Agreement governing the Revolving Credit Facility, the Company may, from time to time, subject to certain conditions, increase the aggregate commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility by up to $600 million, provided that the aggregate amount of the commitments does not exceed $1.8 billion at any time. ​ As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, we had outstanding letters of credit, primarily to support obligations related to workers’ compensation, general liability and other insurance policies, in the amounts of $66.4 million and $38.9 million, respectively, reducing the aggregate availability under the Credit Agreement by those amounts.  As of December 31, 2020, we had no outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility, versus $261.0 million as of December 31, 2019. ​ Senior Notes: On March 27, 2020, we issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of unsecured 4.200% Senior Notes due 2030 (“4.200% Senior Notes due 2030”) at a price to the public of 99.959% of their face value with U.S. Bank National Association (“U.S. Bank”) as trustee. Interest on the 4.200% Senior Notes due 2030 is payable on April 1 and October 1 of each year, which began on October 1, 2020, and is computed on the basis of a 360-day year. ​ On September 23, 2020, we issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of unsecured 1.750% Senior Notes due 2031 (“1.750% Senior Notes due 2031”) at a price to the public of 99.544% of their face value with U.S. Bank as trustee.  Interest on the 1.750% Senior Notes due 2031 is payable on March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning on March 15, 2021, and is computed on the basis of a 360-day year. ​ On October 14, 2020, we redeemed our $500 million aggregate principal amount of unsecured 4.875% Senior Notes due 2021 at a redemption price of $500 million, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the date of redemption. ​ As of December 31, 2020, we have issued and have outstanding a cumulative $4.2 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes, which are due between 2021 and 2031, with UMB Bank, N.A. and U.S. Bank as trustees.  Interest on the senior notes, ranging from 1.750% to 4.625%, is payable semi-annually and is computed on the basis of a 360-day year.  None of our subsidiaries is a guarantor under our senior notes. ​ Debt covenants: The indentures governing our senior notes contain covenants that limit our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to, among other things, create certain liens on assets to secure certain debt and enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions, and limit our ability to merge or consolidate with another company or transfer all or substantially all of our property, in each case as set forth in the indentures.  These covenants are, however, subject to a number of important limitations and exceptions.  As of December 31, 2020, we were in compliance with the covenants applicable to our senior notes. ​ The Credit Agreement contains certain covenants, including limitations on indebtedness, a minimum consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio of 2.50:1.00 and a maximum consolidated leverage ratio of 3.50:1.00.  The consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio includes a calculation of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, rent and non-cash share-based compensation expense to fixed charges.  Fixed charges include interest expense, capitalized interest and rent expense.  The consolidated leverage ratio includes a calculation of adjusted debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, rent and non-cash share-based compensation expense.  Adjusted debt includes outstanding debt, outstanding stand-by letters of credit and similar instruments, five-times rent expense and excludes any premium or discount recorded in conjunction with the issuance of long-term debt.  In the event that we should default on any covenant contained within the Credit Agreement, certain actions may be taken, including, but not limited to, possible termination of commitments, immediate payment of outstanding principal amounts plus accrued interest and other amounts payable under the Credit Agreement and litigation from our lenders. ​ We had a consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio of 5.93 times and 5.21 times as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and a consolidated leverage ratio of 1.92 times and 2.20 times as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, remaining in compliance with all covenants related to the borrowing arrangements. 33 ​ ​ The table below outlines the calculations of the consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio and consolidated leverage ratio covenants, as defined in the Credit Agreement governing the Revolving Credit Facility, for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 (dollars in thousands): ​ ​ The table below outlines the calculation of Free cash flow and reconciles Free cash flow to Net cash provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 (in thousands): ​ 34 ​ Free cash flow, the consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio and the consolidated leverage ratio discussed and presented in the tables above are not derived in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).  We do not, nor do we suggest investors should, consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, GAAP financial information.  We believe that the presentation of our free cash flow, consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio and consolidated leverage ratio provides meaningful supplemental information to both management and investors and reflects the required covenants under the Credit Agreement.  We include these items in judging our performance and believe this non-GAAP information is useful to investors as well.  Material limitations of these non-GAAP measures are that such measures do not reflect actual GAAP amounts.  We compensate for such limitations by presenting, in the tables above, a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measures. ​ Share repurchase program: In January of 2011, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program.  Under the program, we may, from time to time, repurchase shares of our common stock, solely through open market purchases effected through a broker dealer at prevailing market prices, based on a variety of factors such as price, corporate trading policy requirements and overall market conditions.  Our Board of Directors may increase or otherwise modify, renew, suspend or terminate the share repurchase program at any time, without prior notice.  As announced on February 5, 2020, October 28, 2020, and February 10, 2021, our Board of Directors each time approved a resolution to increase the authorization amount under our share repurchase program by an additional $1.0 billion, resulting in a cumulative authorization amount of $15.8 billion.  Each additional authorization is effective for a three-year period, beginning on its respective announcement date.  In order to conserve liquidity in response to COVID-19, we suspended our share repurchase program on March 16, 2020.  We continued to evaluate business conditions and our liquidity and, as a result of this evaluation, resumed our share repurchase program on May 29, 2020. ​ The following table identifies shares of our common stock that have been repurchased as part of our publicly announced share repurchase program for the year ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 (in thousands, except per share data): ​ As of December 31, 2020, we had $481.5 million remaining under our share repurchase program.  Subsequent to the end of the year and through February 26, 2021, we repurchased an additional 1.1 million shares of our common stock under our share repurchase program, at an average price of $447.49, for a total investment of $478.4 million.  We have repurchased a total of 82.1 million shares of our common stock under our share repurchase program since the inception of the program in January of 2011 and through February 26, 2021, at an average price of $179.65 for a total aggregate investment of $14.7 billion.  As of February 26, 2021, we had approximately $1.0 billion remaining under our share repurchase program. ​ CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS ​ Our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2020, included commitments for short and long-term debt arrangements, interest payments related to long-term debt, future payments under non-cancelable lease arrangements, self-insurance reserves, purchase obligations for construction contract commitments and other long-term liabilities, which are identified in the table below and are fully disclosed in Note 6 “Leases,” Note 13 “Share-Based Compensation and Benefit Plans” and Note 14 “Commitments” to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  We expect to fund these commitments primarily with operating cash flows expected to be generated in the normal course of business or through borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility. ​ Deferred income taxes, as well as commitments with various suppliers for the purchase of inventory, are not reflected in the table below due to the absence of scheduled maturities, the nature of the account or the commitment’s cancellation terms.  Due to the absence of scheduled maturities, the timing of certain of these payments cannot be determined, except for amounts estimated to be payable in 2021, which are included in “Current liabilities” on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. ​ We record a reserve for potential liabilities related to uncertain tax positions, including estimated interest and penalties, which are fully disclosed in Note 16 “Income Taxes” to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  These estimates are not included in the table below because the timing related to the ultimate resolution or settlement of these positions cannot be determined.  As of December 31, 2020, we recorded a net liability of $35.9 million related to these uncertain tax positions on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, all of which was included in “Other liabilities.” ​ 35 ​ We record a reserve for the projected obligation related to future payments under the Company’s nonqualified deferred compensation plan, which is fully disclosed in Note 13 “Share-Based Compensation and Benefit Plans” to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  This estimate is not included in the table below because the timing related to the ultimate payment cannot be determined.  As of December 31, 2020, we recorded a liability of $40.4 million related to this uncertain liability on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, all of which was included in “Other liabilities.” ​ The following table identifies the estimated payments of the Company’s contractual obligations as of December 31, 2020 (in thousands): ​ OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS ​ Off-balance sheet arrangements are transactions, agreements, or other contractual arrangements with an unconsolidated entity, for which we have an obligation to the entity that is not recorded in our consolidated financial statements.  We historically utilized various off-balance sheet financial instruments, including sale-leaseback and synthetic lease transactions, but we have not entered into any such transactions for over 10 years and do not plan to utilize off-balance sheet arrangements in the future to fund our working capital requirements, operations or growth plans. ​ We issue stand-by letters of credit provided by a $200 million sub-limit under the Revolving Credit Facility that reduce our available borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility.  Those letters of credit are issued primarily to satisfy the requirements of workers’ compensation, general liability and other insurance policies.  Substantially all of the outstanding letters of credit have a one-year term from the date of issuance.  Letters of credit totaling $66.4 million and $38.9 million were outstanding at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. ​ We do not have any off-balance sheet financing that has, or is reasonably likely to have, a material, current or future effect on our financial condition, cash flows, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. ​ CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES ​ The preparation of our financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires the application of certain estimates and judgments by management.  Management bases its assumptions, estimates and adjustments on historical experience, current trends and other factors believed to be relevant at the time the consolidated financial statements are prepared.  Management believes that the following policies are critical due to the inherent uncertainty of these matters and the complex and subjective judgments required in establishing these estimates.  Management continues to review these critical accounting policies and estimates to ensure that the consolidated financial 36 ​ statements are presented fairly in accordance with GAAP.  However, actual results could differ from our assumptions and estimates and such differences could be material. ​ Supplier Concessions: We receive concessions from our suppliers through a variety of programs and arrangements, including co-operative advertising, allowances for warranties, merchandise allowances and volume purchase rebates.  Co-operative advertising allowances that are incremental to our advertising program, specific to a product or event and identifiable for accounting purposes are reported as a reduction of advertising expense in the period in which the advertising occurred.  All other material supplier concessions are recognized as a reduction to the cost of sales.  Amounts receivable from suppliers also include amounts due to us relating to supplier purchases and product returns.  Management regularly reviews amounts receivable from suppliers and assesses the need for a reserve for uncollectible amounts based on our evaluation of our suppliers’ financial position and corresponding ability to meet their financial obligations.  Based on our historical results and current assessment, we have not recorded a reserve for uncollectible amounts in our consolidated financial statements, and we do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that our ability to collect these amounts will differ from our expectations.  The eventual ability of our suppliers to pay us the obliged amounts could differ from our assumptions and estimates, and we may be exposed to losses or gains that could be material. ​ Valuation of Long-Lived Assets: We evaluate the carrying value of finite and indefinite long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of these assets might exceed their current fair values.  As a component of the finite long-lived assets evaluation, we review performance at the store level to identify any stores with current period operating losses that should be considered for impairment.  A potential impairment has occurred if the projected future undiscounted cash flows realized from the best possible use of the asset are less than the carrying value of the asset.  The estimate of cash flows includes management’s assumptions of cash inflows and outflows directly resulting from the use of that asset in operations.  If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the assets.  As a component of the indefinite long-lived assets evaluation, we perform a qualitative assessment to determine if events or circumstances that could affect the inputs used to determine the fair value of the intangible asset have occurred, as well as if they continue to support an indefinite useful life.  Areas evaluated include changes in cost factors such as raw materials or labor, financial performance including declining revenues or cash flows, the legal, regulatory and political environment, and other industry and market considerations, including the competitive environment and changes in product demand.  If events or market conditions exist that would more likely than not indicate that impairment may be necessary, a detailed quantitative assessment would be performed.  Based on our qualitative assessment, we do not believe there has been a change of events or circumstances that would indicate that a calculation of fair value of indefinite long-lived assets is required as of December 31, 2020.  Our impairment analyses contain estimates due to the inherently judgmental nature of forecasting long-term estimated cash flows and determining the ultimate useful lives and fair values of the assets.  Actual results could differ from these estimates, which could materially impact our impairment assessment. ​ Self-Insurance Reserves: We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance mechanisms to provide for potential liabilities from workers’ compensation, general liability, vehicle liability, property loss and Team Member health care benefits.  With the exception of certain Team Member health care benefit liabilities, employment related claims and litigation, certain commercial litigation and certain regulatory matters, we obtain third-party insurance coverage to limit our exposure for any individual workers’ compensation, general liability, vehicle liability or property loss claim.  When estimating our self-insurance liabilities, we consider a number of factors, including historical claims experience and trend-lines, projected medical and legal inflation, growth patterns and exposure forecasts.  The assumptions made by management as they relate to each of these factors represent our judgment as to the most probable cumulative impact of each factor to our future obligations.  Our calculation of self-insurance liabilities requires management to apply judgment to estimate the ultimate cost to settle reported claims and claims incurred but not yet reported as of the balance sheet date, and the application of alternative assumptions could result in a different estimate of these liabilities.  Actual claim activity or development may vary from our assumptions and estimates, which may result in material losses or gains.  As we obtain additional information that affects the assumptions and estimates we used to recognize liabilities for claims incurred in prior accounting periods, we adjust our self-insurance liabilities to reflect the revised estimates based on this additional information.  These liabilities are recorded at our estimate of their net present value.  These liabilities do not have scheduled maturities, but we can estimate the timing of future payments based upon historical patterns.  We could apply alternative assumptions regarding the timing of payments or the applicable discount rate that could result in materially different estimates of the net present value of the liabilities.  If self-insurance reserves were changed 10% from our estimated reserves at December 31, 2020, the financial impact would have been approximately $20 million or 0.9% of pretax income for the year ended December 31, 2020. ​ 37 ​ INFLATION AND SEASONALITY ​ We have generally been successful in reducing the effects of merchandise cost increases principally by taking advantage of supplier incentive programs, economies of scale resulting from increased volume of purchases and selective forward buying.  To the extent our acquisition cost increased due to price increases industry-wide, we have typically been able to pass along these increased costs through higher retail prices for the affected products.  As a result, we do not believe inflation has had a material adverse effect on our operations. ​ To some extent, our business is seasonal primarily as a result of the impact of weather conditions on customer buying patterns.  While we have historically realized operating profits in each quarter of the year, our store sales and profits have historically been higher in the second and third quarters (April through September) than in the first and fourth quarters (October through March) of the year. ​ RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS ​ See Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about recent accounting pronouncements. ​ ​ 38 ​