********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

A wide range of risks may affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, now and in the future. We consider the risks described below to be the most significant. There may be other currently unknown or unpredictable factors that could have adverse effects on our business, financial condition or results of operations. I-19 Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry Changes in consumer behavior, as well as evolving technologies, distribution platforms and packaging, may negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations Our success in the media and entertainment industry depends on our ability to adapt to shifting patterns of content consumption. The ways in which consumers view content, and technology and business models in our industry, continue to evolve rapidly, and new distribution platforms, as well as increased competition from new entrants and emerging technologies, have added to the complexity of maintaining predictable revenue streams. Technological advancements have empowered consumers to seek more control over when, where and how they consume content and have affected the options available to advertisers for reaching their target audiences. The evolution of consumer preferences towards digital and other subscription services, and the substantial increase in availability of programming without advertising or adequate methodologies for audience measurement, have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, consumers are increasingly using time-shifting and advertising-blocking technologies that enable users to fast-forward or circumvent advertisements, such as DVRs, or increase the sharing of subscription content and reduce the demand for electronic sell-through, DVD and Blu-ray disc products. Substantial use of these technologies could impact the attractiveness of our programming to advertisers, adversely affecting our advertising revenue. Our business also may be adversely affected by the use of antennas (and their integration with set-top boxes or other consumer devices) to access broadcast signals to avoid subscriptions, as well as live and stored video streaming boxes and services, which deliver unauthorized copies of copyrighted content, including those emanating from other countries in various languages. In response to perceived consumer demand, distributors of programming and program services are continuing to develop alternative offerings for consumers, including SVOD and other subscription services; FAST services; and original content for mobile and social media platforms. Also, the impact of technological changes on MVPDs may adversely affect our cable networks’ ability to grow revenue. If our networks and brands are not included in these offerings and services, or if consumers increasingly favor alternative offerings over traditional broadcast television and cable subscriptions, we may continue to experience a decline in viewership and ultimately demand for our programming, which could lead to lower revenues. These changing distribution models may also impact our ability to negotiate carriage deals on terms favorable to us, thereby having an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In order to respond to these developments, we regularly adopt or develop new technologies and consider, and from time to time implement, changes to our business models and strategies to remain competitive, such as our focus on streaming, and there can be no assurance that we will successfully anticipate or respond to these developments, that we will not experience disruption, even as we respond to such developments, or that the new technologies or business models we develop will be as successful as our current technology and business models. Our advertising revenues have been and may continue to be adversely impacted by changes in consumers’ content viewership, deficiencies in audience measurement and advertising market conditions We derive substantial revenues from the sale of advertising, and a decline in advertising revenues could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Consumers are increasingly turning to “over-the-top” sources for viewing and purchasing content, and an increasing number of companies offer SVOD and/or FAST services, including some that offer exclusive high-quality original programming delivered over the internet. The increasing number of entertainment choices available to consumers has intensified audience fragmentation and reduced the viewing of content through traditional linear distribution models, which has caused, and may continue to cause, ratings declines for broadcast and cable networks. This decline may adversely affect the amount of advertising dollars invested in broadcast and cable networks. Although we expect our digital advertising products in both local and national markets (through I-20 direct and automated transactional models) to provide some offsetting benefit, increased advertising investment in digital offerings could adversely affect our advertising volume in linear. In addition, advertising sales are largely dependent on audience measurement, and the results of audience measurement techniques can vary for a variety of reasons, including the platforms on which viewing is measured and variations in statistical sampling methods used. While Nielsen’s statistical sampling method is the primary measurement technique used in our television advertising sales, we measure and monetize across over-the-top platforms based on census-based advertising-server data establishing the number of impressions served, combined with third-party data providing demographic composition estimates. Multiplatform campaign verification remains in its infancy and is still not measured by any one consistently applied method. While we expect innovation and standards around multiplatform measurement to benefit us as the video advertising market continues to evolve, we are nevertheless partially dependent on third parties to deliver those solutions. The strength of the advertising market can fluctuate in response to the economic prospects of specific advertisers or industries, advertisers’ current spending priorities and the economy in general or the economy of any individual geographic market, and this may adversely affect our advertising revenues. Natural and other disasters, pandemics, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or hostilities could lead to a reduction in domestic and international advertising expenditures as a result of disrupted programming and services, uninterrupted news coverage and economic uncertainty. In 2020, we experienced a material negative impact on advertising revenues because of weakness in the advertising market as a result of COVID-19. Our ability to generate advertising revenue is also dependent on demand for our content, the consumers in our targeted demographics, advertising rates and results observed by advertisers. Our success depends on our ability to maintain attractive brands and our reputation, and to offer popular programming and other content Our ability to maintain attractive brands, and to create, distribute and/or license popular content are key to our success and ability to generate revenues. The revenues we generate primarily depend on our ability to anticipate and consistently satisfy consumer tastes and expectations, both in the U.S. and internationally. The popularity of our content is affected by our ability to develop and maintain strong brand awareness and a strong reputation; our ability to target key audiences; the quality and attractiveness of competing entertainment content; and the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities. Audience tastes change frequently, and it is a challenge to anticipate what will be successful at any point in time. We invest substantial capital in creating and promoting our content, including in the production of original content, before learning the extent to which it will garner critical success and popularity with consumers. A shortfall in the expected popularity of content we expect to distribute or of sports events for which we have acquired rights, could lead to decreased profitability or losses for a significant period of time. Significant negative claims or publicity regarding the Company or its operations, products, management, employees, practices, business partners and culture, including individuals associated with the content we create and/or license, as well as our inability to adequately respond to such negative claims or publicity, may damage our brands or reputation, even if such claims are untrue. A lack of popularity of our offerings or damage to our reputation could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations in a particular period or over a longer term. Increased costs for programming, films and other rights, and judgments we make on the potential performance of our content, may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations In TV Entertainment and Cable Networks , we produce a significant amount of original programming and other content and we invest significant resources in our brands, in part with the aim of developing higher quality and quantity of original content, and we also derive a portion of our revenue from the exploitation of our extensive library of television programming. In Filmed Entertainment , we invest significant amounts in the production, marketing and distribution of films and television series. We also acquire programming, films and television series, as well as a variety of digital content and other ancillary rights such as consumer and home entertainment product offerings, and we pay license fees, royalties and/or contingent compensation in connection with these acquired rights. For example, some of CBS Sports’ most widely viewed programming, including The Masters Tournament and NFL games, are made available based on programming rights of varying duration that we have I-21 negotiated with third parties. We also license various music rights from the major record companies, music publishers and performing rights organizations. Our investments in original and acquired programming are significant and involve complex negotiations with numerous third parties, and rapid changes in consumer behavior have increased the risk associated with the success of all kinds of programming. Competition for popular content is intense, and we may have to increase the price we are willing to pay for talent and intellectual property rights, which may result in significantly increased costs. Further, increased competition in the market for development and production of original content, particularly from streaming services providers, including our streaming services, increases our content costs. We may be outbid by our competitors for the rights to new, popular programming or in connection with the renewals of popular programming that we currently license. Finally, certain of our counterparties and vendors may encounter financial and operational pressures, which could result in increased costs to us or delays in production. As such, there can be no assurance that we will recoup our investments when the content is broadcast or distributed. Our businesses operate in industries that are highly competitive We compete with other media companies to attract creative talent and produce high-quality content, and for distribution on a variety of third-party platforms to draw large audiences. Competition for talent, content, audiences, service providers, production infrastructure, advertising and distribution is intense and comes from other broadcast television stations and networks, cable television systems and networks, streaming service providers, the internet and social media platforms, film studios and independent film producers and distributors, consumer products companies and other entertainment outlets and platforms, as well as from search engines, program guides and “second screen” applications. Additionally, other television stations or cable networks may change their formats or programming, a new station or new network may adopt a format to compete directly with our stations or networks, or stations or networks might engage in aggressive promotional campaigns. Further, competition from additional entrants into the market for development and production of original content and streaming services continues to increase. Our ability to obtain widespread distribution on favorable terms, which contributes to our ability to attract audiences and, in turn, advertisers, is adversely affected by the consolidation of advertising agencies, programmers, content providers, distributors and television service providers. This consolidation reduces the number of distributors with whom we negotiate and increases the negotiating leverage and market power of the combined companies. Our competitors generally include companies with interests in multiple media businesses that are often vertically integrated, whereas our Cable Networks business generally relies on distribution relationships with third parties. As more cable and satellite operators, internet service providers, telecom companies and other content distributors, aggregators and search providers create or acquire their own content, they may have significant competitive advantages, which could adversely affect our ability to negotiate favorable terms for distribution or otherwise compete effectively in the delivery marketplace. Our competitors could also have preferential access to important technologies, customer data or other competitive information, as well as significant financial resources. This competition and consolidation could result in lower ratings and advertising, lower affiliate and other revenues, and increased content costs and promotional and other expenses, negatively affecting our ability to generate revenues and profitability. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors, or that competition or consolidation in the marketplace will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Because we derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of distributors, the loss of affiliation and distribution agreements, renewal on less favorable terms or adverse interpretations thereof could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations A significant portion of our revenues are attributable to agreements with a limited number of distributors. These agreements generally have fixed terms that vary by market and distributor, and there can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed in the future, or renewed on favorable terms, including those related to pricing I-22 and programming tiers. We may also be unable to modify existing agreements with terms that have become less favorable over time. The loss of existing packaging, positioning, pricing or other marketing opportunities and the loss of carriage or the failure to renew our agreements with any distributor, or renew or modify them on favorable terms, could reduce the distribution of our programming and program services and decrease the potential audience for our programs, thereby negatively affecting our growth prospects and revenues from both affiliate fees and advertising. CBS Television Network provides affiliated television stations regularly scheduled programming in return for the insertion of network commercials during that programming and the payment of reverse compensation. The loss of such station affiliation agreements could adversely affect our results of operations by reducing the reach of our programming and therefore our attractiveness to advertisers, and renewal of these affiliation agreements on less favorable terms may also adversely affect our results of operations. Consolidation among and vertical integration of distributors in the cable or broadcast network business has provided more leverage to these distributors and could adversely affect our ability to maintain or obtain distribution for our network programming or distribution and/or marketing of our subscription services on favorable or commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Also, consolidation among television station group owners could increase their negotiating leverage. Moreover, competitive pressures faced by MVPDs, particularly in light of the lower retail prices of streaming services, could adversely affect the terms of our renewals with MVPDs. In addition, MVPDs and streaming services continue to develop alternative offerings for consumers. To the extent these offerings do not include our programming and become widely accepted in lieu of traditional offerings, we could experience a decline in affiliate revenues. Our revenues are dependent on the compliance of major distributors with the terms of our affiliation or distribution agreements. As these agreements have grown in complexity, the number of disputes regarding their interpretation and even their validity has grown, resulting in greater uncertainty and, from time to time, litigation with respect to our rights and obligations. Some of our distribution agreements contain “most favored nation” (“MFN”) clauses, which provide that if we enter into an agreement with a distributor and such agreement includes terms that are more favorable than those held by a distributor holding an MFN right, we must offer some of those terms to the distributor holding the MFN right. Disagreements with a distributor on the interpretation or validity of an agreement could adversely impact our affiliate and advertising revenues, as well as our relationship with that distributor. We could suffer losses due to asset impairment charges for goodwill, intangible assets, FCC licenses and programming We test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, including FCC licenses, for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests if events or circumstances require an interim impairment assessment. Certain future events and circumstances, including deterioration of market conditions, higher cost of capital, a decline in advertising markets, a decrease in audience acceptance of our programming or films, a shift by advertisers to competing advertising platforms and/or changes in consumer behavior could result in a downward revision in the estimated fair value of a reporting unit or intangible assets, including FCC licenses, which could result in a non-cash impairment charge. Any such impairment charge for goodwill, intangible assets and/or programming could have a material adverse effect on our reported net earnings. Risks Relating to the Merger and Other Strategic Initiatives The integration of the CBS and Viacom businesses may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected . Synergies and other anticipated benefits may not be realized within the expected time frames, or at all. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate the businesses of the combined companies in a manner that facilitates growth opportunities and achieves projected standalone cost savings and revenue growth trends without adversely affecting revenues and investments in future growth. The failure to meet the challenges involved in combining CBS’ and Viacom’s businesses following the Merger and to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger, including expected synergies, could adversely affect the results of operations of ViacomCBS. The overall combination of our businesses may also result in material I-23 unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, and loss of customer and other business relationships. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: the diversion of management attention to integration matters; difficulties in integrating operations and systems, including administrative and information technology infrastructure and financial reporting and internal control systems; challenges in conforming standards, controls, procedures and accounting and other policies, business cultures and compensation structures between the two companies; difficulties in integrating employees and attracting and retaining key personnel, including talent; challenges in retaining existing, and obtaining new customers, viewers, suppliers, distributors, licensors, employees and others, including material content providers, studios, producers, directors, actors, authors and other talent, and advertisers; difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities, financing plans and growth prospects from the combination; difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company; challenges in continuing to develop valuable and widely accepted content and technologies; contingent liabilities that are larger than expected; and potential unknown liabilities, adverse consequences and unforeseen increased expenses associated with the Merger. Even if our operations are integrated successfully, the full benefits of the Merger, including anticipated synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities, may not be realized, and these benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame or at all. Further, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of our businesses. Many of these factors are outside of our control, and any one of them could result in lower revenues, higher costs and diversion of management time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have acquired and invested in, and expect to continue to acquire and invest in, new businesses, products, services and technologies as part of our ongoing strategic initiatives. Such acquisitions and strategic initiatives may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including the types described above, as well as insufficient revenues from such investments to offset any new liabilities assumed and expenses associated with the new investments; unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence that could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such investments and incur unanticipated liabilities; and a failure to successfully develop an acquired business or technology. Because new investments are inherently risky, and the anticipated benefits or value of these investments may not materialize, no assurance can be given that such investments and other strategic initiatives will not adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. If our streaming initiatives are unsuccessful, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected There can be no assurance that our streaming initiatives will be successful. The streaming market is intensely competitive and our ability to attract and retain subscribers to our pay streaming services, including Paramount+, SHOWTIME OTT and BET+, and MAUs on our FAST service, Pluto TV, as well as the corresponding subscription and advertising revenues they enable us to generate, will depend on our ability to consistently provide appealing and differentiated content, effectively market these services and provide a quality experience for selecting and viewing that content. Our success will also require significant investments to produce original content and acquire the rights to third-party content, including with respect to live sports, as well as the establishment and maintenance of key content and distribution partnerships. We will need to find the right balance between licensing our content to our own streaming services, forgoing traditional sources of content licensing revenues, and licensing our content to third parties. In addition, the relative service levels, content offerings, promotions, and pricing and related features of our competitors’ services may adversely impact our ability to attract and retain subscribers and MAUs. Competitors include MVPDs, vMVPDs and other content providers. If consumers do not consider our streaming services to be of value compared to our competitors’ services, including because we fail to introduce new features, increase our pricing, terminate or modify promotional or trial period offerings, experience technical issues, or change the mix of content in a manner that is not favorably received, we may not be able to attract and retain subscribers and MAUs. In addition, many subscribers and MAUs originate from word-of-mouth advertising from existing subscribers and MAUs. If we are not be able to attract subscribers and MAUs, or our subscribers or MAUs decide to not continue subscriptions on our services for a variety of reasons, including a perception that they do not use it I-24 sufficiently, the need to cut household expenses, unsatisfactory content, promotions or trial-period offers expire or are modified, competitive services or promotions provide a better value or experience or customer service or technical issues are not satisfactorily resolved, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. We must continually add new subscribers and MAUs both to replace canceled subscribers and to grow our business, including offsetting subscriber declines in our traditional linear distribution model. If we are unable to successfully compete with competitors in retaining and attracting new subscribers and MAUs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Relating to Business Continuity, Cybersecurity and Privacy and Data Protection Disruptions or failures of, or cybersecurity attacks upon, our or our service providers’ networks, information systems and other technologies, and a failure of our business continuity plans in response thereto, could result in the disclosure of confidential or valuable business or personal information, disruption of our businesses, damage to our brands and reputation, legal exposure and financial losses Cloud services, networks, information systems and other technologies we use or that are used by our third-party providers, including technology systems used in connection with the production and distribution of our content (“Systems”), are critical to our business activities, and shutdowns or disruptions of, and cybersecurity attacks on, these Systems pose increasing risks. We also use content delivery networks to help us stream programming, films and other content in high volume to viewers and users of our online, mobile and app offerings over the internet. Shutdowns, disruptions and attacks may be caused by third-party hacking of computers and Systems; dissemination of computer viruses, worms, malware, ransomware and other destructive or disruptive software; denial of service attacks and other bad acts; human error; and power outages, natural disasters, extreme weather, terrorist attacks or other similar events. Shutdowns, disruptions and attacks could have an adverse impact on us, our business partners, employees, advertisers, viewers and users of our content, including degradation or disruption of service, loss of data and damage to equipment and data. Steps we take to add software and hardware, upgrade our Systems and network infrastructure, and to otherwise improve the stability and efficiency of our Systems may not be sufficient to avoid shutdowns, disruptions and attacks. Significant events could result in a disruption of our operations and reduction of our revenues, the loss of or damage to the integrity of data used by management to make decisions and operate our businesses, viewer or advertiser dissatisfaction or a loss of viewers or advertisers, and damage to our reputation or brands. In addition, our recovery and business continuity plans may prove inadequate to address any such disruption, failure or cybersecurity attack. We are subject to risks caused by the misappropriation, misuse, falsification or intentional or accidental release or loss of business or personal data or programming content maintained in our or our third-party providers’ Systems, including proprietary and personal information (of third parties, employees and users of our online, mobile and app offerings), business information including intellectual property, or other confidential information. Outside parties may attempt to penetrate our Systems or those of our third-party providers or fraudulently induce employees, business partners or users of our online, mobile and app offerings to disclose sensitive or confidential information in order to gain access to our data or our subscribers’ or users’ data, or our programming. The number and sophistication of attempted and successful information security breaches in the U.S. and elsewhere have increased significantly in recent years, and because of our prominence, we and/or third-party providers we use may be a particularly attractive target for such attacks. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, or disable, degrade or sabotage, these Systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques, implement adequate security measures or remediate any intrusion on a timely or effective basis. Moreover, the development and maintenance of security measures is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. Despite our efforts, the possibility of these events occurring cannot be eliminated. If a material breach of our Systems or those of our third-party providers occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed, we could lose subscribers, viewers, revenues in the case of leaked content, advertisers and other business partners, and users of our online, mobile and app offerings; our I-25 reputation, brands and credibility could be damaged; and we could be required to expend significant amounts of money and other resources to repair or replace such Systems or to comply with regulatory requirements. We could also be subject to actions by regulatory authorities and claims asserted in private litigation. The costs relating to any data breach could be material, and we may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate us for any losses associated with such events. We are subject to complex, often inconsistent and potentially costly laws, rules, regulations, industry standards and contractual obligations relating to privacy and personal data protection We are subject to laws, rules and regulations in the U.S. and in other countries relating to privacy and the collection, use and security of personal data. In the E.U., for example, the GDPR mandates data protection compliance obligations and authorizes significant fines for noncompliance, requiring extensive compliance resources and efforts on our part. Further, a number of other regions where we do business have enacted or are considering new data protection regulations that may impact our business activities. In the U.S., the California Consumer Privacy Act, which went into effect on January 1, 2020, creates a host of new obligations for businesses regarding how they handle the personal information of California residents. We are also subject to laws and regulations intended specifically to protect the interests of children and the privacy of minors online, including COPPA in the U.S. and the GDPR in the E.U., and we have been required to limit some functionality on digital properties as a result of these regulations. Such regulations also restrict the types of advertising we are able to sell on these digital properties and impose strict liability on us for certain actions of ViacomCBS, advertisers and other third parties, which could affect advertising demand and pricing. Recently, laws in Brazil and China that govern the processing of children’s data also went into effect. These laws will likely have similar impacts to COPPA and GDPR, especially with respect to data collected in connection with advertising. We will continue to expend resources to comply with data protection and privacy standards imposed by law, industry standards or contractual obligations, which may be inconsistent with one another, and despite such efforts we may face regulatory and other legal actions. Each of these factors could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Relating to Intellectual Property Infringement of our content, including digital copyright piracy and other unauthorized uses of our content, reduces revenue received from legitimate distribution of our programming, films, books and other entertainment content and adversely affects our business, financial condition and results of operations The success of our businesses depends in part on our ability to maintain and monetize our intellectual property rights. We are fundamentally a content company and infringement of our content — specifically, the infringement of our films and home entertainment products, television programming, digital content, books and other intellectual property rights — affects the value of our content. Copyright infringement is particularly prevalent in many parts of the world that either lack effective laws and technical protection measures similar to those existing in the U.S. and Europe or lack effective enforcement of such measures, or both. Such foreign copyright infringement often creates a supply of pirated content for major markets as well. The interpretation of copyright, trademark and other intellectual property laws as applied to our content, and our infringement-detection and enforcement efforts, remain in flux, and some methods of enforcement have encountered political opposition. The failure to appropriately enforce and/or the weakening of existing intellectual property laws could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect and monetize our intellectual property and thus negatively affect its value. Copyright piracy is made easier by the wide availability of higher bandwidth and reduced storage costs, as well as tools that undermine encryption and other security features and enable infringers to disguise their identities online. We and our numerous production and distribution partners operate various technology systems in connection with the production and distribution of our programming and films, and intentional or unintentional acts could result in unauthorized access to our content. The continuing proliferation of digital formats and technologies heightens this risk. Internet-connected televisions, set-top boxes and mobile devices are ubiquitous, and many can support illegal retransmission platforms, illicit video-on-demand or streaming services and pre-loaded hardware, providing more accessible, versatile and legitimate-looking environments for consuming unlicensed film and television content. Unauthorized access to our content could result in the premature release of films, television programs or other I-26 content as well as a reduction in demand for authorized content, which would likely have significant adverse effects on the value of the affected content and our ability to monetize our content. Copyright infringement reduces the revenue that we are able to receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of our content, undermines lawful distribution channels, reduces the public’s and some affiliate partners’ perceived value of our content and inhibits our ability to recoup or profit from the costs incurred to create such content. We are actively engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property, and it is likely that we will continue to expend substantial resources in connection with these initiatives. Efforts to prevent the unauthorized reproduction, distribution and exhibition of our content may affect our profitability and may not be successful in preventing harm to our business. Risks Relating to Macroeconomic and Political Conditions COVID-19 and other pandemics could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The COVID-19 pandemic has negatively impacted, and is expected to continue to impact, the macroeconomic environment in the U.S. and globally. Federal, state and local governmental authorities in the U.S. and foreign governments around the world have implemented numerous orders, policies and initiatives to try to reduce the transmission of COVID-19, such as travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter-in-place orders and business shutdowns. The difficult macroeconomic environment, which has included increased and prolonged unemployment and a decline in consumer confidence, and any resulting recession or prolonged declines in economic growth, as well as changes in consumer behavior in response to the pandemic, have had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Other pandemics or widespread health emergencies may have similar effects. As a result of COVID-19, we experienced a material negative impact on our advertising revenues in 2020, particularly at the end of the first quarter and throughout the second quarter, as a result of weakness in the advertising market as advertisers sought to reduce costs in response to the pandemic’s impact on their businesses, the cancellation or postponement of sporting events for which we have broadcast rights, including the NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball Championship in the first quarter, and the delay of the 2020-21 television broadcast season as a result of production shutdowns. While the rate of decline improved in the second half of the year, we are not able to predict whether future sporting events will be canceled or postponed, or whether advertising revenues from these broadcasts, or advertising budgets and the advertising market generally, will return or be comparable to historical levels. Any prolonged decline in our advertising revenues would have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. COVID-19 had a negative effect on our content licensing revenues in 2020. Temporary television and film production shutdowns resulted in the abandonment of content that was not completed, delays in the delivery of programming to third parties, and fewer original programs and live events airing on our broadcast and cable networks. We also experienced lower demand for the licensing of our content from advertising-supported licensees. While production has resumed, we are not able to predict whether we will encounter future production delays or shutdowns or if and to what extent content licensing revenues will continue to be negatively impacted. Additionally, with the resumption of production we began incurring incremental costs related to health and safety protocols in response to COVID-19, which are expected to continue in 2021. Our theatrical revenues have been negatively impacted by the closure or reduction in capacity of movie theaters that show our films as a result of COVID-19, which has impacted our theatrical releases. Accordingly, we have rescheduled certain theatrical releases and licensed others to our owned or third-party streaming services. We are not able to predict when or whether movie theaters will reopen at scale, whether consumers will return at the same levels they previously did because of concerns related to COVID-19 or because of changes to viewing habits, or whether revenues from theatrical releases will be comparable to historical levels. In addition, COVID-19 could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations in a number of other ways, including: negatively impacting our affiliate and advertising revenues as consumers reduce I-27 discretionary spending by cancelling or forgoing subscriptions to MVPD or vMVPD services; negatively impacting our financial condition or our ability to fund operations, dividends or future investment opportunities due to an increase in the cost or difficulty in obtaining debt or equity financing, or refinancing our debt in the future, our ability to comply with the leverage covenant in our Credit Facility, or a decrease in our debt ratings; impairments of our programming and other inventory, goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets, and other long-lived assets; and increased cyber and payment fraud risk, as cybercriminals attempt to profit from the disruption, given increased online activity. The magnitude of the continuing impact of COVID-19, which could be material to our business, financial condition and results of operations, will depend on numerous evolving factors that we may not be able to accurately predict or control, including the duration and extent of the pandemic, the impact of federal, state, local and foreign governmental actions, consumer behavior in response to the pandemic and such governmental actions, and economic and operating conditions in the aftermath of COVID-19. Even after COVID-19 has subsided, we may experience materially adverse impacts to our business as a result of its global economic impact, including any recession that has occurred or may occur in the future. Due to the evolving and uncertain nature of the pandemic, we are not able to estimate the full extent of the impact that COVID-19 will have on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and that impact could also exacerbate the other risks described herein. Political and economic conditions in a variety of markets around the world could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations Our businesses operate and have audiences, customers and partners worldwide, and we are focused on expanding our international operations in key markets, some of which are emerging markets. For that reason, economic conditions in many different markets around the world affect a number of aspects of our businesses. Economic conditions in each market can also impact our audience’s discretionary spending and therefore their willingness to access our content, as well as the businesses of our partners who purchase advertising on our networks, causing them to reduce their spending on advertising. We may also be subject to longer payment cycles. In addition, as we have expanded our international operations, our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar has increased, and there is no assurance that downward trending currencies will rebound or that stable currencies will remain stable in any period. Such fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Also, volatility and weakness in the capital markets, the tightening of credit markets or a decrease in our debt ratings could adversely affect our ability to obtain cost-effective financing. Our businesses are also exposed to certain political risks inherent in conducting a global business, including retaliatory actions by governments reacting to changes in the U.S. and other countries, including in connection with trade negotiations; issues related to the presence of corruption in certain markets and enforcement of anti-corruption laws and regulations; increased risk of political instability in some markets as well as conflict and sanctions preventing us from accessing those markets; escalating trade, immigration and nuclear disputes; wars, acts of terrorism or other hostilities; and other political, economic or other uncertainties. These political and economic risks could create instability in any of the markets where our businesses derive revenues, which could result in a reduction of revenue or loss of investment that adversely affects our businesses, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Relating to Regulatory and Legal Matters Failures to comply with or changes in U . S . or foreign laws or regulations may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, both in the U.S. and/or in the foreign jurisdictions in which we or our partners operate, including laws and regulations relating to intellectual property, content regulation, user privacy, data protection, anti-corruption, repatriation of profits, tax regimes, quotas, tariffs or other trade barriers, currency exchange controls, operating license and permit requirements, restrictions on foreign ownership or I-28 investment, export and market access restrictions, and exceptions and limitations on copyright and censorship, among others. The television broadcasting and cable programming industries in the U.S. are highly regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC. For example, we are required to obtain licenses from the FCC to operate our television stations and periodically renew them. It cannot be assured that the FCC will approve our future renewal applications or that the renewals will be for full terms or will not include conditions or qualifications. The non-renewal, or renewal with substantial conditions or modifications, of one or more of our licenses could have a material adverse effect on our revenues. We must also comply with extensive FCC limits on the ownership and operation of our television stations and our television networks, which could restrict our ability to consummate future transactions and in certain circumstances could require us to divest some television stations. Our businesses could be adversely affected by new laws and regulations, changes in existing laws, changes in interpretations of existing laws by courts and regulators and the threat that additional laws or regulations may be forthcoming, as well as our ability to enforce our legal rights. We could be required to change or limit certain of our business practices, which could impact our ability to generate revenues. We could also incur substantial costs to comply with new and existing laws and regulations, or substantial fines and penalties or other liabilities if we fail to comply with such laws and regulations. Our liabilities related to discontinued operations and former businesses could adversely impact our financial conditions We have both recognized and potential liabilities and costs related to discontinued operations and former businesses, certain of which are unrelated to the media business, including leases, guarantees, environmental liabilities, liabilities related to the pensions and medical expenses of retirees, asbestos liabilities, contractual disputes and other pending and threatened litigation. We cannot be assured that our accruals for these matters are sufficient to cover these liabilities in their entirety or any one of these liabilities when it becomes due or at what point any of these liabilities may come due. Therefore, there can be no assurances that these liabilities will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating performance or cash flow. Risks Relating to Human Capital The loss of key talent could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations Our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our executive teams, and the various creative talent and entertainment personalities with whom we work. We compete for talented executives in a highly-specialized industry, and our ability to attract and retain such individuals may be impacted by our reputation, workplace culture, efforts with respect to diversity and inclusion, the compensation and benefits we provide, and our commitment to effectively managing executive succession. We also employ or contract with several entertainment personalities with loyal audiences and we produce films with highly regarded directors, producers, writers, actors and other talent. These individuals are important to attracting viewers of our content and achieving the success of our programs, films and other content. There can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us or will retain their current appeal, or that the costs associated with retaining them or new talent will be reasonable. If we fail to retain these individuals on current terms or if our entertainment personalities lose their current appeal or we fail to attract new talent, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, we and our business partners engage the services of writers, directors, actors, musicians and other talent, production crew members, trade employees, professional athletes and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Any labor disputes, including lockouts, strikes or work stoppages, may disrupt our operations and cause delays in the production of our programming, which could increase our costs and have an adverse effect on our revenues, cash flows and/or operating income. I-29 Risks Relating to our Ownership Structure NAI, through its voting control of ViacomCBS, is in a position to control actions that require stockholder approval NAI, through its direct and indirect ownership of our Class A Common Stock, has voting control of ViacomCBS. At December 31, 2020, NAI directly or indirectly owned approximately 79.4% of the shares of our Class A Common Stock outstanding, and approximately 10.2% of the shares of our Class A Common Stock and our Class B Common Stock outstanding on a combined basis. Shari E. Redstone, the Chairperson, CEO and President of NAI, serves as non-executive Chair of the ViacomCBS Board of Directors (the “ViacomCBS Board”). Until the death of Mr. Sumner M. Redstone on August 11, 2020, NAI was controlled by Mr. Redstone through the Sumner M. Redstone National Amusements Trust (the “SMR Trust”), which owned 80% of the voting interest of NAI, with such voting interest voted solely by Mr. Redstone. Upon Mr. Redstone’s death and in accordance with the terms of the trust agreement governing the SMR Trust and the Continuing Trusts (as defined below), the SMR Trust was succeeded by two continuing trusts (the “Continuing Trusts”), each of which holds 40% of the voting stock of NAI. Under the terms of the trust agreement governing the SMR Trust and the Continuing Trusts, the Continuing Trusts are required to share the same seven voting trustees, who have equal voting power, and each trustee is required to cause each Continuing Trust to vote the NAI shares held by that Continuing Trust in the same manner as the NAI shares held by the other Continuing Trust. Ms. Redstone is one of the seven voting trustees for each Continuing Trust and is one of two voting trustees who are beneficiaries of one of the Continuing Trusts. No member of our management, or other member of our the ViacomCBS Board, is a trustee of either of the Continuing Trusts. Subject to the terms of the Governance Agreement dated as of August 13, 2019, which is incorporated by reference as an exhibit in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, NAI is in a position to control the outcome of corporate actions that require, or may be accomplished by, stockholder approval, including amending ViacomCBS’ bylaws, the election or removal of directors and transactions involving a change of control. For example, the ViacomCBS bylaws provide that: • the affirmative vote of not less than a majority of the aggregate voting power of all outstanding shares of our capital stock then entitled to vote generally in an election of directors, voting together as a single class, is required for our stockholders to amend, alter, change, repeal or adopt any of our bylaws; • any or all of our directors may be removed from office at any time prior to the expiration of his or her term of office, with or without cause, only by the affirmative vote of the holders of record of outstanding shares representing at least a majority of all the aggregate voting power of outstanding shares of our Common Stock then entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class at a special meeting of our stockholders called expressly for that purpose; provided that during the two-year period following the closing date of the Merger, the removal of our Chief Executive Officer requires the approval of the ViacomCBS Board by the “Requisite Approval” (as defined in the ViacomCBS certificate of incorporation incorporated by reference as an exhibit in this Annual Report on Form 10-K); provided further, that during the two-year period following the closing date, NAI and NAI Entertainment Holdings LLC are not permitted to remove any other persons who were members of the ViacomCBS Board at the effective time of the Merger in accordance with the Merger Agreement or who otherwise become members the ViacomCBS Board (other than any of the NAI Affiliated Directors (as defined in the bylaws)) without the Requisite Approval; and • in accordance with the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, our stockholders may act by written consent without a meeting if such stockholders hold the number of shares representing not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such actions at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted. Accordingly, ViacomCBS stockholders who may have different interests are unable to affect the outcome of any such corporate actions for so long as NAI retains voting control. For more information, see the Governance Agreement incorporated by reference as an exhibit in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. I-30 Sales of NAI’s shares of ViacomCBS Common Stock, some of which are pledged to lenders, could adversely affect the stock price Based on information received from NAI, NAI has pledged to its lenders a portion of shares of our Class A Common Stock and our Class B Common Stock owned directly or indirectly by NAI. At December 31, 2020, the aggregate number of shares of our Common Stock pledged by NAI to its lenders represented approximately 4.1% of the total outstanding shares of our Class A Common Stock and our Class B Common Stock on a combined basis. If there is a default on NAI’s debt obligations and the lenders foreclose on the pledged shares, the lenders may not effect a transfer, sale or disposition of any pledged shares of our Class A Common Stock unless NAI and its affiliates beneficially own 50% or less of our Class A Common Stock then outstanding or such shares have first been converted into our Class B Common Stock. A sale of the pledged shares could adversely affect our Common Stock share price. In addition, there can be no assurance that at some future time NAI will not sell or pledge additional shares of our Common Stock, which could adversely affect our Common Stock share price.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis is intended to provide a summary of significant factors relevant to our financial performance and condition. The discussion and analysis should be read together with our consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Results for the fiscal year ended May 30, 2021 are not necessarily indicative of results that may be attained in the future. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The information contained in this report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements regarding our expected future financial performance or position, results of operations, business strategy, plans and objectives of management for future operations, and other statements that are not historical facts. You can identify forward-looking statements by their use of forward-looking words, such as "may", "will", "anticipate", "expect", "believe", "estimate", "intend", "plan", "should", "seek", or comparable terms. Readers of this report should understand that these forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance or results. Forward-looking statements provide our current expectations and beliefs concerning future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and factors relating to our business and operations, all of which are difficult to predict and could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements. These risks, uncertainties, and factors include, among other things: the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the acquisition of Pinnacle Foods Inc. (the "Pinnacle acquisition") may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; the risk that the Pinnacle acquisition may not be accretive within the expected timeframe or to the extent anticipated; the risks that the Pinnacle acquisition and related integration will create disruption to the Company and its management and impede the achievement of business plans; risks related to our ability to achieve the intended benefits of other recent acquisitions and divestitures; risks associated with general economic and industry conditions; risks associated with our ability to successfully execute our long-term value creation strategies; risks related to our ability to deleverage on currently anticipated timelines, and to continue to access capital on acceptable terms or at all; risks related to our ability to execute operating and restructuring plans and achieve targeted operating efficiencies from cost-saving initiatives and to benefit from trade optimization programs; risks related to the effectiveness of our hedging activities and ability to respond to volatility in commodities; risks related to the Company's competitive environment and related market conditions; risks related to our ability to respond to changing consumer preferences and the success of our innovation and marketing investments; risks related to the ultimate impact of any product recalls and litigation, including litigation related to the lead paint and pigment matters, as well as any securities litigation, including securities class action lawsuits; risk associated with actions of governments and regulatory bodies that affect our businesses, including the ultimate impact of new or revised regulations or interpretations; risks related to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, suppliers, consumers, customers, and employees; risks related to our forecasts of consumer eat-at-home habits as the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic abate; risks related to the availability and prices of supply chain resources, including raw materials, packaging and transportation, including any negative effects caused by changes in inflation rates, weather conditions, or health pandemics; disruptions or inefficiencies in our supply chain and/or operations, including from the COVID-19 pandemic; risks associated with actions by our customers, including changes in distribution and purchasing terms; risks and uncertainties associated with intangible assets, including any future goodwill or intangible assets impairment charges; risks related to a material failure in or breach of our or our vendors' information technology systems; the amount and timing of future dividends, which remain subject to Board approval and depend on market and other conditions; and other risks described in our reports filed from time to time with the SEC. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this report, which speak only as of the date of this report. We undertake no responsibility to update these statements, except as required by law. The discussion that follows should be read together with the consolidated financial statements and related notes contained in this report. Results for fiscal 2021 are not necessarily indicative of results that may be attained in the future. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW Conagra Brands, headquartered in Chicago, is one of North America's leading branded food companies. Guided by an entrepreneurial spirit, the Company combines a rich heritage of making great food with a sharpened focus on innovation. The Company's portfolio is evolving to satisfy people's changing food preferences. Its iconic brands such as Birds Eye ® , Duncan Hines ® , Healthy Choice ® , Marie Callender's ® , Reddi-wip ® , and Slim Jim ® , as well as emerging brands, including Angie's ® BOOMCHICKAPOP ® , Duke's ® , Earth Balance ® , Gardein ® , and Frontera ® , offer choices for every occasion. 22 Fiscal 2021 Results Fiscal 2021 performance compared to fiscal 2020 reflected an increase in net sales, with organic (excludes the impacts of foreign exchange, divested businesses, as well as the impact of the 53 rd week on fiscal 2020) increases in all of our operating segments with the exception of our Foodservice segment, in each case compared to fiscal 2020. Organic net sales for our retail segments (inclusive of Grocery & Snacks, Refrigerated & Frozen, and International) were positively impacted by the increase in at-home food consumption as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, with sales declines in our Foodservice segment due to lower traffic in away-from-home food outlets. Overall gross margin increased due to increased net sales, supply chain realized productivity, cost synergies associated with the Pinnacle acquisition, favorable margin mix, and fixed cost leverage. These benefits were partially offset by higher input cost inflation, higher transportation costs, lost profits due to divested businesses, COVID-19 related expenses, and the exclusion of the 53 rd week in fiscal 2020. Overall segment operating profit increased in all of our operating segments with the exception of our Foodservice segment. Corporate expenses were relatively flat year-over-year, but included various items impacting comparability as discussed below. We experienced an increase in equity method investment earnings, a decrease in interest expense, and a decrease in income tax expense, in each case compared to fiscal 2020. Diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2021 were $2.66. Diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2020 were $1.72. Diluted earnings per share were affected by higher net income as well as several significant items affecting the comparability of year-over-year results of continuing operations (see "Items Impacting Comparability" below). In the fourth quarter fiscal 2021, we experienced higher than expected input cost inflation, including higher transportation and supply chain costs, that negatively impacted gross margins. We expect input cost inflation to be materially higher in fiscal 2022. Supply chain realized productivity and pricing actions will mitigate some of the inflationary pressures, but we do not expect such benefits to occur in time to fully offset the incremental costs in fiscal 2022. As our estimates of inflation for fiscal 2022 continue to change, it is impractical to quantify the impact at this time. Items Impacting Comparability Items of note impacting comparability of results for continuing operations for fiscal 2021 included the following: Items of note impacting comparability of results from continuing operations for fiscal 2020 included the following: 23 In addition, fiscal 2020 earnings per share benefited by approximately $0.05 as a result of the fiscal year including 53 weeks. Segment presentation of gains and losses from derivatives used for economic hedging of anticipated commodity input costs and economic hedging of foreign currency exchange rate risks of anticipated transactions are discussed in the segment review below. Divestitures During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021, we completed the sale of our Egg Beaters ® business for net proceeds of $50.6 million, subject to final working capital adjustments. The results of operations of the divested Egg Beaters ® business were primarily included in our Refrigerated & Frozen segment, and to a lesser extent within our International and Foodservice segments, for the periods preceding the completion of the transaction. During the third quarter of fiscal 2021, we completed the sale of our Peter Pan ® peanut butter business for net proceeds of $101.5 million, including working capital adjustments but subject to final adjustments for certain tax benefits. The results of operations of the divested Peter Pan ® peanut butter business were primarily included in our Grocery & Snacks segment, and to a lesser extent within our International and Foodservice segments, for the periods preceding the completion of the transaction. During the third quarter of fiscal 2020, we completed the sale of our Lender's ® bagel business for net proceeds of $33.3 million, including working capital adjustments. The results of operations of the divested Lender’s ® bagel business were primarily included in our Refrigerated & Frozen segment, and to a lesser extent within our Foodservice segment, for the periods preceding the completion of the transaction. During the second quarter of fiscal 2020, we completed the sale of our Direct Store Delivery ("DSD") snacks business, for net proceeds of $137.5 million, including working capital adjustments. The results of operations of the divested DSD snacks business were included in our Grocery & Snacks segment for the periods preceding the completion of the transaction. Restructuring Plans In December 2018, our Board approved a restructuring and integration plan related to the ongoing integration of the operations of Pinnacle, which we acquired in October 2018 (the "Pinnacle Integration Restructuring Plan"), for the purpose of achieving significant cost synergies between the companies, as a result of which we expect to incur material charges for exit and disposal activities under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP"). We expect to incur approximately $358.0 million of charges ($283.5 million of cash charges and $74.5 million of non-cash charges) for actions identified to date under the Pinnacle Integration Restructuring Plan. The Board and/or our senior management have authorized incurrence of these charges. We recognized charges of $31.7 million, $73.8 million, and $168.2 million in connection with the Pinnacle Integration Restructuring Plan in fiscal 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively. We expect to incur costs related to the Pinnacle Integration Restructuring Plan over a multi-year period. In fiscal 2019, senior management initiated a restructuring plan (the "Conagra Restructuring Plan") for costs incurred in connection with actions taken to improve selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expense effectiveness and efficiencies and to optimize our supply chain network. Although we remain unable to make good faith estimates relating to the entire Conagra Restructuring Plan, we are reporting on actions initiated through the end of fiscal 2021, including the estimated amounts or range of amounts for each major type of cost expected to be incurred, and the charges that have resulted or will result in cash outflows. As of May 30, 2021, we had approved the incurrence of $172.2 million ($45.4 million of cash charges and $126.8 million of non- 24 cash charges) for several projects associated with the Conagra Restructuring Plan. We have incurred or expect to incur $ 1 57. 3 million of charges ($ 36.9 million of cash charges and $ 120.4 million of non-cash charges) for actions identified to date under the Conagra Restructuring Plan. W e recognized charges of $ 46.2 million , $ 64.4 million , and $2.2 million in connection with the Conagra Restructuring Plan in fiscal 202 1 , 2020, and 20 19 , respectively. We expect to incur costs related to the Conagra Restructuring Plan over a multi-year period. COVID-19 Pandemic We have continued to monitor the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on all aspects of our business. Throughout fiscal 2021, we experienced higher net sales for our products in both of our Grocery & Snacks and Refrigerated & Frozen segments until the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021, as we began to lap the initial surge in demand at the beginning of the pandemic. We have also experienced reduced demand for our foodservice products across all of our major markets as consumer traffic in away-from-home food outlets decreased as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, as states have reopened their economies during 2021, our foodservice net sales have improved compared to the initial months of the pandemic. As we progress through fiscal 2022, we generally expect retail demand levels to remain elevated versus pre-pandemic levels and we expect foodservice demand levels to return to more historical norms. However, there still remains uncertainty with the pandemic and such trends ultimately depend on the length and severity of the pandemic, inclusive of the introduction of new strains of the virus; the federal, state, and local government actions taken in response; continued vaccine availability and effectiveness; and the macroeconomic environment. In fiscal 2022, we also expect to see inflationary headwinds but anticipate that they will be partially mitigated by supply chain realized productivity and price increases that began to be introduced at the end of fiscal 2021. We also expect a decrease in costs related to the COVID-19 pandemic and a decrease in supply chain costs as we continue to recover our supply and service levels. We will continue to evaluate the extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will impact our business, consolidated results of operations, and financial condition. During fiscal 2021, our operating margins benefitted from fixed cost leverage, reduced travel expenses, and lower trade promotional activity on certain brands. That benefit was partially offset by several factors including higher transportation and warehousing costs, employee safety and sanitation costs, and employee compensation costs, which combined accounted for an estimated $143 million of additional incremental costs in fiscal 2021. Similar incremental costs starting in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020 were estimated to be approximately $40 million. While we expect these incremental costs to decrease in fiscal 2022, the timing and amount of such decrease is dependent upon the ultimate length and severity of the pandemic as outlined above. Beginning in February 2020 and over the course of the COVID-19 pandemic, we created COVID-19 pandemic, Return to Office, and Vaccine Preparedness teams, in order to review and assess the evolving COVID-19 pandemic, and to recommend risk mitigation actions for the health and safety of our employees. In order to enhance the safety of our employees during the COVID-19 pandemic, these teams have recommended and implemented various measures, including the installation of physical barriers between employees in production facilities, cleaning and sanitation protocols for both production and office spaces, execution of a phased return to office approach to enable in-person work for corporate personnel, implementation of work-from-home initiatives for certain office personnel, and increased access to vaccines for production facilities and corporate locations. The implementation of such safety measures has not resulted in any meaningful change to our financial control environment. All of our production facilities remain open and there has been minimal disruption to our supply chain network to date, including with respect to the supply of our ingredients, packaging, or other sourced materials. However, we cannot predict the ultimate COVID-19 impact on our suppliers, distributors, and manufacturers. SEGMENT REVIEW We reflect our results of operations in four reporting segments: Grocery & Snacks, Refrigerated & Frozen, International, and Foodservice. Grocery & Snacks The Grocery & Snacks reporting segment principally includes branded, shelf-stable food products sold in various retail channels in the United States. Refrigerated & Frozen The Refrigerated & Frozen reporting segment principally includes branded, temperature-controlled food products sold in various retail channels in the United States. 25 International The International reporting segment principally includes branded food products, in various temperature states, sold in various retail and foodservice channels outside of the United States. Foodservice The Foodservice reporting segment includes branded and customized food products, including meals, entrees, sauces, and a variety of custom-manufactured culinary products that are packaged for sale to restaurants and other foodservice establishments primarily in the United States. Presentation of Derivative Gains (Losses) from Economic Hedges of Forecasted Cash Flows in Segment Results Derivatives used to manage commodity price risk and foreign currency risk are not designated for hedge accounting treatment. We believe these derivatives provide economic hedges of certain forecasted transactions. As such, these derivatives are generally recognized at fair market value with realized and unrealized gains and losses recognized in general corporate expenses. The gains and losses are subsequently recognized in the operating results of the reporting segments in the period in which the underlying transaction being economically hedged is included in earnings. In the event that management determines a particular derivative entered into as an economic hedge of a forecasted commodity purchase has ceased to function as an economic hedge, we cease recognizing further gains and losses on such derivatives in corporate expense and begin recognizing such gains and losses within segment operating results, immediately. See Note 20 "Business Segments and Related Information" , to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report for further discussion. Presentation of Information Below is a detailed discussion and comparison of our results of operations for the fiscal years ended May 30, 2021 and May 31, 2020. For a discussion of changes from the fiscal year ended May 26, 2019 to the fiscal year ended May 31, 2020, refer to Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2020 (filed July 24, 2020). Fiscal 2021 compared to Fiscal 2020 Net Sales Grocery & Snacks net sales for fiscal 2021 included an increase in volumes of 4%, excluding the impact of divestitures and the 53 rd week in fiscal 2020, compared to the prior-year period. This result reflected an increase across multiple categories due to increased at-home eating and some replenishment of customer inventory levels that had been depleted in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic. Price/mix increased 2%, excluding the impact of divestitures, compared to the prior-year period due to favorable product mix, lower promotional trade activity, and the favorable impact of a $7.4 million change in estimate associated with our fiscal 2020 fourth quarter trade accrual. The inclusion of an additional week of results in fiscal 2020 accounted for an incremental 2% of net sales in the prior-year period. Fiscal 2021 and 2020 included $34.7 million and $113.9 million, respectively, of net sales related to our Peter Pan ® peanut butter business, which was sold in the third quarter of fiscal 2021. Fiscal 2021 and 2020 included $3.6 million and $8.0 million, respectively, of net sales related to our H.K. Anderson ® business, which was sold in the second quarter of fiscal 2021. Fiscal 2020 included $23.1 million of net sales related to our private label peanut butter business, which we exited in the third quarter of fiscal 2020. Fiscal 2020 also included $46.1 million of net sales related to our DSD snacks business, which was sold in the second quarter of fiscal 2020. Refrigerated & Frozen net sales for fiscal 2021 included an increase in volumes of 4%, excluding the impact of divestitures and the 53 rd week in fiscal 2020, compared to fiscal 2020. The increase in sales volumes was a result of increased at-home eating 26 and some replenishment of customer inventory levels that had been depleted in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic . Price/ mix increased 4 % for fiscal 2021, excluding the impact of divestitures, compared to fiscal 2020 due to favorable mix, lower promotional trade activity, favorable pricing, and the favorable impact of a $7.4 million change in estimate associated with our fiscal 2020 fourth quarter trade accrual . The inclusion of an additional week of results in fiscal 2020 accounted for an incremental 2% of net sales in the prior-year period . Fiscal 2021 and 2020 included $40.8 million and $41.0 million, respectively, of net sales related to our Egg Beaters ® business, which was sold in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021. Fiscal 2020 included $23.2 million of net sales related to our Lender's ® bagel business, which was sold in the third quarter of fiscal 2020. International net sales for fiscal 2021 included an increase in price/mix of 4% compared to fiscal 2020 due to lower promotional trade activity, inflation-justified pricing, favorable mix, and the favorable impact of a $2.8 million change in estimate associated with our fiscal 2020 fourth quarter trade accrual. Volumes, excluding the impact of divestitures and the 53 rd week in fiscal 2020, were flat when compared to the prior-year period. The inclusion of an additional week of results in fiscal 2020 accounted for an incremental 2% of net sales in the prior-year period. Fiscal 2021 and 2020 included $1.4 million and $5.2 million, respectively, of net sales related to our Peter Pan ® peanut butter business. Foodservice net sales for fiscal 2021 included a decrease in volumes of 13%, excluding the impact of divestitures and the 53 rd week in fiscal 2020, compared to the prior-year period. The decline in volume reflected lower traffic in away-from-home food outlets as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Price/mix, excluding the impact of divestitures, increased 3% in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020, reflecting inflation-related pricing and lower trade activity. The inclusion of an additional week of results in fiscal 2020 accounted for an incremental 1% of net sales in the prior-year period. Fiscal 2021 and 2020 included $1.0 million and $3.4 million, respectively, of net sales related to our Peter Pan ® peanut butter business. Fiscal 2021 and 2020 included $0.6 million and $2.4 million, respectively, of net sales related to our H.K. Anderson ® business. Fiscal 2020 included $6.6 million and $4.6 million of net sales related to our Lender's ® bagel and private label peanut butter businesses, respectively. SG&A Expenses (Includes general corporate expenses) SG&A expenses totaled $1.40 billion for fiscal 2021, a decrease of $219.5 million compared to fiscal 2020. SG&A expenses for fiscal 2021 reflected the following: Items impacting comparability of earnings Other changes in expenses compared to fiscal 2020 27 SG&A expenses for fiscal 2020 included the following items impacting the comparability of earnings: Segment Operating Profit (Earnings before general corporate expenses, pension and postretirement non-service income, interest expense, net, income taxes, and equity method investment earnings) Grocery & Snacks operating profit for fiscal 2021 reflected an increase in gross profits of $34.3 million compared to fiscal 2020. The higher gross profit was driven by the net sales growth discussed above, the benefits of supply chain realized productivity, favorable margin mix, fixed cost leverage, and cost synergies associated with the Pinnacle acquisition, partially offset by the impact of the 53 rd week of our prior fiscal year, the impacts of input cost inflation, higher transportation costs, a reduction in profit associated with the divestiture of our HK Anderson ® and Peter Pan ® peanut butter businesses and the exit of our private label peanut butter business, and pandemic-related costs. Pandemic-related costs included investments in employee safety protocols, bonuses paid to supply chain employees, and costs necessary to meet elevated levels of demand. Operating profit of the Grocery & Snacks segment was impacted by expense of $27.8 million and $58.4 million related to our restructuring plans in fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively. Fiscal 2021 and 2020 included certain brand intangible impairment charges of $13.0 million and $46.4 million, respectively. Fiscal 2021 included gains totaling $55.1 million related to the divestitures of certain businesses. Fiscal 2020 also included a charge of $31.4 million related to the impairment of a business held for sale, a benefit of $11.9 million related to a contract settlement, and costs of $3.0 million related to divestitures. Refrigerated & Frozen operating profit for fiscal 2021 reflected an increase in gross profits of $61.9 million compared to fiscal 2020 due to the net sales growth discussed above, the benefits of supply chain realized productivity, favorable margin mix, cost synergies associated with the Pinnacle acquisition, and fixed cost leverage, partially offset by the impact of the 53 rd week of our prior fiscal year, the impacts of input cost inflation, higher transportation costs, a reduction in profit associated with the divestiture of our Lender's ® bagel business, and pandemic-related costs. Operating profit of the Refrigerated & Frozen segment was impacted by charges of $76.9 million and $110.8 million related to the impairment of certain brand intangible assets during fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively. Fiscal 2021 and 2020 included $26.8 million and $15.8 million, respectively, of charges related to our restructuring plans. Fiscal 2021 also included a gain of $10.4 million related to the divestiture of our Egg Beater's ® business, reduced by a loss of $7.1 million related to the early exit of an unfavorable contract associated with the divestiture. In addition, operating profit of the Refrigerated & Frozen segment included $27.6 million related to the impairment of a business held for sale in fiscal 2020. Advertising and promotion expenses for fiscal 2021 increased by $23.8 million compared to fiscal 2020. 28 International operating profit for fiscal 2021 reflected an increase in g ross profits of $18.3 million compared to fiscal 2020 due to the net sales growth discussed above, the benefits of supply chain realized productivity, fixed cost leverage, and favorable product mix, partially offset by the impact of the 53 rd week of our prior fiscal year, the impacts of input cost inflation, higher transportation costs , and a reduction in profit associated with the divestiture of our Peter Pan ® peanut butter business . International gross profits also reflected a decrease of $ 5.8 million due to foreign exchange rates compared to the prior-year period. Operating profit of the International segment was impacted by charges of $1.0 million and $8.3 million related to the impairment of certain brand intangible assets during fiscal 202 1 and 20 20 , respectively. Foodservice operating profit for fiscal 2021 reflected a decrease in gross profits of $26.0 million compared to fiscal 2020, reflecting lower traffic in away-from-home food outlets due to the COVID-19 pandemic, input cost inflation, the impact of the 53 rd week of our prior fiscal year, pandemic-related costs, and a reduction in profit associated with the divestitures of our Lender's ® bagel, H.K. Anderson ® , and Peter Pan ® peanut butter businesses and the exit of our private label peanut butter business, partially offset by supply chain realized productivity and fixed cost leverage. Pension and Postretirement Non-service Income In fiscal 2021, pension and postretirement non-service income was $54.5 million, an increase of $44.6 million compared to fiscal 2020. The increase was driven by a charge of $44.8 million in fiscal 2020 compared to a charge of $0.8 million in fiscal 2021 related to the year-end write-off of actuarial losses in excess of 10% of our pension liability. The increase in losses outside of the 10% corridor in the prior year was driven by a reduction of the discount rate used to remeasure the pension obligations to present value and a reduction in asset values for certain plan assets. Interest Expense, Net In fiscal 2021, net interest expense was $420.4 million, a decrease of $66.7 million, or 14%, from fiscal 2020. The decrease was driven by an overall reduction of our debt balances. See Note 4, "Long-Term Debt" , to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report for further discussion. Income Taxes Our income tax expense was $193.8 million and $201.3 million in fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively. The effective tax rate (calculated as the ratio of income tax expense to pre-tax income from continuing operations, inclusive of equity method investment earnings) was approximately 13% and 19% for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively. See Note 14, "Pre-Tax Income and Income Taxes" , to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report for a discussion on the change in effective tax rates. In fiscal 2021, we completed a restructuring of our ownership interest in Ardent Mills that utilized a portion of our capital loss carryforward prior to its expiration. Also in fiscal 2021, we completed several other transactions related to retained assets in conjunction with the divestitures of the Peter Pan ® peanut butter and Egg Beaters ® businesses that we believe will utilize a portion of the remaining capital loss carryforward. These transactions are subject to certain elections and are currently under review by the Internal Revenue Service. We believe they may result in increases to the tax basis in those assets and if successful would result in tax benefits being realized in future periods. We expect our effective tax rate in fiscal 2022, exclusive of any unusual transactions or tax events, to be approximately 23%-24%. Equity Method Investment Earnings We include our share of the earnings of certain affiliates based on our economic ownership interest in the affiliates. Our most significant affiliate is the Ardent Mills joint venture. Our share of earnings from our equity method investment earnings were $84.4 million and $73.2 million for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively. Results for fiscal 2020 included a gain of $4.1 million from the sale of assets by the Ardent Mills joint venture. Ardent Mills earnings for fiscal 2021 reflected favorable market conditions. 29 Earnings Per Share Diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2021 and 2020 were $2.66 and $1.72, respectively. The increase in diluted earnings per share reflected higher net income. In addition, see "Items Impacting Comparability" above as several significant items affected the comparability of year-over-year results of operations. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Sources of Liquidity and Capital The primary objective of our financing strategy is to maintain a prudent capital structure that provides us flexibility to pursue our growth objectives. We use a combination of equity and short and long-term debt. We use short-term debt principally to finance ongoing operations, including our seasonal requirements for working capital (accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and other current assets, and inventories, less accounts payable, accrued payroll, and other accrued liabilities). We are committed to maintaining solid investment grade credit ratings. Management believes that existing cash balances, cash flows from operations, existing credit facilities, our commercial paper program, and access to capital markets will provide sufficient liquidity to meet our debt obligations, including any repayment of debt or refinancing of debt, working capital needs, planned capital expenditures, and payment of anticipated quarterly dividends for at least the next twelve months. Borrowing Facilities and Long-Term Debt At May 30, 2021, we had a revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Credit Facility") with a syndicate of financial institutions providing for a maximum aggregate principal amount outstanding at any one time of $1.6 billion (subject to increase to a maximum aggregate principal amount of $2.1 billion with the consent of the lenders). The Revolving Credit Facility matures on July 11, 2024 and is unsecured. The term of the Revolving Credit Facility may be extended for additional one-year or two-year periods from the then-applicable maturity date on an annual basis. We have historically used a credit facility principally as a back-up for our commercial paper program. As of May 30, 2021, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility. We had $705.7 million outstanding under our commercial paper program as of May 30, 2021, and no amounts outstanding as of May 31, 2020. The highest level of borrowings during fiscal 2021 was $1.05 billion. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021, we repaid the remaining outstanding $195.9 million aggregate principal amount of our 9.75% subordinated notes on their maturity date of March 1, 2021. The repayment was primarily funded by the issuance of commercial paper. A summary of our long-term debt balances as of May 30, 2021 can be found in Note 4, "Long-Term Debt" , to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report. The weighted-average coupon interest rate of the long-term debt obligations outstanding as of May 30, 2021, was approximately 4.6%. We expect to maintain or have access to sufficient liquidity to retire or refinance long-term debt upon maturity, from operating cash flows, our commercial paper program, access to the capital markets, and our Revolving Credit Facility. We continuously evaluate opportunities to refinance our debt; however, any refinancing is subject to market conditions and other factors, including financing options that may be available to us from time to time, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully refinance any debt on commercially acceptable terms at all. As of the end of fiscal 2021, our senior long-term debt ratings were all investment grade. A significant downgrade in our credit ratings would not affect our ability to borrow amounts under the Revolving Credit Facility, although borrowing costs would increase. A downgrade of our short-term credit ratings would impact our ability to borrow under our commercial paper program by negatively impacting borrowing costs and causing shorter durations, as well as making access to commercial paper more difficult, or impossible. Our most restrictive debt agreement (the Revolving Credit Facility) generally requires our ratio of EBITDA to interest expense not be less than 3.0 to 1.0 and our ratio of funded debt to EBITDA not to exceed certain decreasing specified levels, ranging from 4.75 through the first quarter of fiscal 2022 to 3.75 from the second quarter of fiscal 2023 and thereafter. Each ratio is to be calculated on a rolling four-quarter basis. As of May 30, 2021, we were in compliance with all financial covenants. 30 On July 13, 2021, subsequent to our fiscal year end, we entered into an amendment to the Revolving Credit Facility . The amendment modifies the ra tio of funded debt to EBITDA financial covenant to require a ratio of not greater than 4.50 on a rolling four-quarter basis. Equity and Dividends We repurchase shares of our common stock from time to time after considering market conditions and in accordance with repurchase limits authorized by our Board. Under the share repurchase authorization, we may repurchase our shares periodically over several years, depending on market conditions and other factors, and may do so in open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions. The share repurchase authorization has no expiration date. During fiscal 2021, we repurchased 8.8 million shares of our common stock under this authorization for an aggregate of $298.1 million. The Company’s total remaining share repurchase authorization as of May 30, 2021, was $1.12 billion. On April 16, 2021, we announced that our Board had authorized a quarterly dividend payment of $0.275 per share, which was paid on June 2, 2021, to stockholders of record as of the close of business on April 30, 2021. Subsequent to our fiscal year end, our Board approved a 14% increase to our annualized dividend rate. The Board approved a quarterly dividend of $0.3125 per share to be paid on September 2, 2021 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on August 3, 2021. Contractual Obligations As part of our ongoing operations, we enter into contractual arrangements that obligate us to make future cash payments. These obligations impact our liquidity and capital resource needs. In addition to principal and interest payments on our outstanding long-term debt and notes payable balances, discussed above, our contractual obligations primarily consist of leases payments, income taxes, pension and postretirement benefits, and unconditional purchase obligations. A summary of our operating and finance lease obligations as of May 30, 2021 can be found in Note 15, "Leases" , to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report. The liability for gross unrecognized tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions was $33.0 million as of May 30, 2021. See Note 14, "Pre-Tax Income and Income Taxes" , to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report for information related to income taxes. As of May 30, 2021, we had an aggregate funded pension asset of $109.6 million and an aggregate unfunded postretirement benefit obligation totaling $78.2 million. We expect to make payments totaling approximately $12.3 million and $9.0 million in fiscal 2022 to fund our pension and postretirement plans, respectively. See Note 18, "Pension and Postretirement Benefits" , to the Consolidated Financial Statements and "Critical Accounting Estimates – Employment-Related Benefits" contained in this report for further discussion of our pension obligation and factors that could affect estimates of these obligations. As of May 30, 2021, our unconditional purchase obligations (i.e., obligations to transfer funds in the future for fixed or minimum quantities of goods or services at fixed or minimum prices, such as "take-or-pay" contracts) totaled approximately $2.51 billion. Approximately $1.82 billion of this balance is due in fiscal 2022. Included in this amount are open purchase orders and other supply agreements totaling approximately $1.53 billion, which are generally settleable in the ordinary course of business in less than one year. Some are not legally binding and/or may be cancellable. Warehousing service agreements totaling approximately $400 million and obligations for leases that have not yet commenced totaling $272.2 million as of May 30, 2021, make up a majority of our remaining unconditional purchase obligations with various terms of up to 20 years. Capital Expenditures We continue to make investments in our business and operating facilities. Our preliminary estimate of capital expenditures for fiscal 2022 is approximately $475 million. Supplier Arrangements In fiscal 2017, we began a program to offer certain suppliers access to a third-party service that allows them to view our scheduled payments online. The third-party service also allows suppliers to finance advances on our scheduled payments at the sole discretion of the supplier and the third party. We have no economic interest in these financing arrangements and no direct 31 relationship with the suppliers, the third party, or any financial institutions concerning this service. All balances remain as obligations to our suppliers as stated in our supplier agreements and are reflected in a ccounts payable within our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The associated payments are included in net cash flows from operating activities within our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows . As of May 30, 2021 and May 31, 2020, $ 279.3 million and $258.7 million, respectively, of our total accounts payable was payable to suppliers who utilize this third-party service. The program commenced at about the same time that we began an initiative to negotiate extended payment terms with our suppliers. Although difficult to predict, we generally expect the incremental cash flow benefits associated with these extended payment terms to increase at a slower rate in the future. A number of factors may impact our future payment terms , including our relative creditworthiness, overall market liquidity, and changes in interest rates and other general economic conditions. Cash Flows In fiscal 2021, we used $474.1 million of cash, which was the net result of $1.47 billion generated from operating activities, $340.3 million used in investing activities, $1.61 billion used in financing activities, and an increase of $7.7 million due to the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Cash generated from operating activities totaled $1.47 billion in fiscal 2021, as compared to $1.84 billion generated in fiscal 2020. Operating cash flows for fiscal 2021 reflected increased net sales in our retail segments from COVID-19 pandemic-related demand as well as decreased interest payments. This was partially offset by increased tax payments compared to fiscal 2020. Tax payments for fiscal 2021 included approximately $47.0 million of fourth quarter fiscal 2020 tax payments, which were deferred due to the extension of the deadline for certain federal cash tax payments. Comparative changes in working capital balances were most notably impacted by inventory rebuilding in fiscal 2021, as certain brands had previously been on allocation due to high demand through the pandemic. Further, our inventory balances also have experienced recent input cost inflation which is giving rise to larger inventory amounts period over period. Operating cash flows benefited from the continued deferral of employer payroll taxes under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act, which totaled $33.9 million for fiscal 2021. Payment of such amounts will occur in fiscal 2022 and 2023. Cash used in investing activities totaled $340.3 million in fiscal 2021 compared to $153.8 million in fiscal 2020. Investing activities in fiscal 2021 consisted primarily of capital expenditures totaling $506.4 million, partially offset by net proceeds totaling $160.9 million from the sale of our Egg Beaters ® , Peter Pan ® peanut butter, and H.K. Anderson ® businesses. Investing activities in fiscal 2020 consisted mainly of capital expenditures of $369.5 million and the net proceeds from divestitures totaling $194.6 million, including the sales of our DSD snacks and Lender's ® bagel businesses. Cash used in financing activities totaled $1.61 billion in fiscal 2021 compared to $1.37 billion in fiscal 2020. Financing activities in fiscal 2021 principally reflect repayments of long-term debt of $2.51 billion, the issuance of long-term debt totaling $988.2 million, net short-term borrowings of $706.3 million, cash dividends paid of $474.6 million, and common stock repurchases of $298.1 million. Financing activities in fiscal 2020 consisted principally of the repayment of long-term debt totaling $947.5 million and cash dividends paid of $413.6 million. Cash Held by International Subsidiaries The Company had cash and cash equivalents of $79.2 million at May 30, 2021, and $553.3 million at May 31, 2020, of which $72.4 million at May 30, 2021, and $80.5 million at May 31, 2020, was held in foreign countries. We believe that our foreign subsidiaries have invested or will invest any undistributed earnings indefinitely, or that any undistributed earnings will be remitted in a tax-neutral transaction, and, therefore, do not provide deferred taxes on the cumulative undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The process of preparing financial statements requires the use of estimates on the part of management. The estimates used by management are based on our historical experiences combined with management's understanding of current facts and circumstances. Certain of our accounting estimates are considered critical as they are both important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results and require significant or complex judgment on the part of management. The following is a summary of certain accounting estimates considered critical by management. Our Audit/Finance Committee has reviewed management's development, selection, and disclosure of the critical accounting estimates. 32 Marketing Costs —We offer various forms of trade promotions which are mostly recorded as a reduction in revenue. The methodologies for determining these provisions are dependent on local customer pricing and promotional practices, which range from contractually fixed percentage price reductions to provisions based on actual occurrence or performance. Our promotional activities are conducted either through the retail trade or directly with consumers and included activities such as in-store displays and events, feature price discounts, consumer coupons, and loyalty programs. The costs of these activities are recognized as a reduction of revenue at the time the related revenue is recorded, which normally precedes the actual cash expenditure. The recognition of these costs therefore requires management judgment regarding the volume of promotional offers that will be redeemed by either the retail trade or consumer. These estimates are made using various techniques including historical data on performance of similar promotional programs. Differences between estimated expense and actual redemptions are recognized as a change in management estimate in a subsequent period. We have recognized trade promotion liabilities of $146.8 million as of May 30, 2021. Changes in the assumptions used in estimating the cost of any individual customer marketing program would not result in a material change in our results of operations or cash flows. Income Taxes —Our income tax expense is based on our income, statutory tax rates, and tax planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and respective governmental taxing authorities. Significant judgment is required in determining our income tax expense and in evaluating our tax positions, including evaluating uncertainties. Management reviews tax positions at least quarterly and adjusts the balances as new information becomes available. Deferred income tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable on taxable income in future years. Such assets arise because of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in our consolidated balance sheets, as well as from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Management evaluates the recoverability of these future tax deductions by assessing the adequacy of future expected taxable income from all sources, including reversal of taxable temporary differences, forecasted operating earnings, and available tax planning strategies. These estimates of future taxable income inherently require significant judgment. Management uses historical experience and short and long-range business forecasts to develop such estimates. Further, we employ various prudent and feasible tax planning strategies to facilitate the recoverability of future deductions. To the extent management does not consider it more likely than not that a deferred tax asset will be recovered, a valuation allowance is established. Further information on income taxes is provided in Note 14, "Pre-tax Income and Income Taxes" , to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report. Environmental Liabilities —Environmental liabilities are accrued when it is probable that obligations have been incurred and the associated amounts can be reasonably estimated. Management works with independent third-party specialists in order to effectively assess our environmental liabilities. Management estimates our environmental liabilities based on evaluation of investigatory studies, extent of required clean-up, our known volumetric contribution, other potentially responsible parties, and our experience in remediating sites. Environmental liability estimates may be affected by changing governmental or other external determinations of what constitutes an environmental liability or an acceptable level of clean-up. Management's estimate as to our potential liability is independent of any potential recovery of insurance proceeds or indemnification arrangements. Insurance companies and other indemnitors are notified of any potential claims and periodically updated as to the general status of known claims. We do not discount our environmental liabilities as the timing of the anticipated cash payments is not fixed or readily determinable. To the extent that there are changes in the evaluation factors identified above, management's estimate of environmental liabilities may also change. We have recognized a reserve of approximately $61.5 million for environmental liabilities as of May 30, 2021. The reserve for each site is determined based on an assessment of the most likely required remedy and a related estimate of the costs required to effect such remedy. Employment-Related Benefits —We incur certain employment-related expenses associated with pensions and postretirement health care benefits. In order to measure the annual expense associated with these employment-related benefits, management must make a variety of estimates including, but not limited to, discount rates used to measure the present value of certain liabilities, assumed rates of return on assets set aside to fund these expenses, compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated health care costs. The estimates used by management are based on our historical experience as well as current facts and circumstances. We use third-party specialists to assist management in appropriately measuring the expense associated with these employment-related benefits. Different estimates used by management could result in us recognizing different amounts of expense over different periods of time. 33 T he Company use s a split discount rate (the "spot-rate approach") for the U.S. plans and certain foreign plans. The spot-rate approach applies separate discount rates for each projected benefit payment in the calculation of pension service and interest cost. We have recognized a pension liability of $135.4 million and $254.5 million and a postretirement liability of $81.2 million and $89.3 million as of the end of fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively. We also have recognized a pension asset of $245.0 million and $202.4 million as of the end of fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively, as certain individual plans of the Company had a positive funded status. We recognize cumulative changes in the fair value of pension plan assets and net actuarial gains or losses in excess of 10% of the greater of the fair value of plan assets or the plan's projected benefit obligation ("the corridor") in current period expense annually as of our measurement date, which is our fiscal year-end, or when measurement is required otherwise under U.S. GAAP. We recognized pension expense (benefit) from Company plans of $(38.3) million, $5.9 million, and $(22.7) million in fiscal 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively. Such amounts reflect the year-end write-off of actuarial losses in excess of 10% of our pension liability of $0.8 million, $44.8 million, and $5.1 million in fiscal 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively. This also reflected expected returns on plan assets of $140.0 million, $170.2 million, and $174.4 million in fiscal 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively. We contributed $27.6 million, $17.5 million, and $14.7 million to the pension plans of our continuing operations in fiscal 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively. We anticipate contributing approximately $12.3 million to our pension plans in fiscal 2022. One significant assumption for pension plan accounting is the discount rate. We use a spot-rate approach, discussed above. This approach focuses on measuring the service cost and interest cost components of net periodic benefit cost by using individual spot rates derived from a high-quality corporate bond yield curve and matched with separate cash flows for each future year instead of a single weighted-average discount rate approach. Based on this information, the discount rate selected by us for determination of pension expense was 2.98% for fiscal 2021, 3.88% for fiscal 2020, and 4.15% for fiscal 2019. We selected a weighted-average discount rate of 3.50% and 2.29% for determination of service and interest expense, respectively, for fiscal 2022. A 25-basis point increase in our discount rate assumption as of the end of fiscal 2021 would increase our annual pension expense for our pension plans in fiscal 2022 by $5.2 million. A 25-basis point decrease in our discount rate assumption as of the end of fiscal 2021 would decrease our annual pension expense for our pension plans in fiscal 2022 by $5.7 million. For our year-end pension obligation determination, we selected discount rates of 3.04% and 2.98% for fiscal years 2021 and 2020, respectively. Another significant assumption used to account for our pension plans is the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. In developing the assumed long-term rate of return on plan assets for determining pension expense, we consider long-term historical returns (arithmetic average) of the plan's investments, the asset allocation among types of investments, estimated long-term returns by investment type from external sources, and the current economic environment. Based on this information, we selected 3.74% for the weighted-average expected long-term rate of return on plan assets for determining our fiscal 2021 pension expense. A 25-basis point increase/decrease in our weighted-average expected long-term rate of return assumption as of the beginning of fiscal 2021 would decrease/increase annual pension expense for our pension plans by $9.3 million. We selected a weighted-average expected rate of return on plan assets of 3.87% to be used to determine our pension expense for fiscal 2022. A 25-basis point increase/decrease in our expected long-term rate of return assumption as of the beginning of fiscal 2022 would decrease/increase annual pension expense for our pension plans by $9.4 million. We also provide certain postretirement health care benefits. We recognized postretirement benefit income of $4.4 million, $4.2 million, and $1.3 million in fiscal 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively. We anticipate contributing approximately $9.0 million to our postretirement health care plans in fiscal 2022. The postretirement benefit expense and obligation are also dependent on our assumptions used for the actuarially determined amounts. These assumptions include discount rates (discussed above), health care cost trend rates, inflation rates, retirement rates, mortality rates (also discussed above), and other factors. The health care cost trend assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook, and an assessment of likely long-term trends. Assumed inflation rates are based on an evaluation of external market indicators. Retirement and mortality rates are based primarily on actual plan experience. The discount rate we selected for determination of postretirement expense was 2.39% for fiscal 2021, 3.48% for fiscal 2020, and 3.81% for fiscal 2019. We have selected a weighted-average discount rate of 2.51% for determination of postretirement expense for fiscal 2022. A 25-basis point increase/decrease in our discount rate assumption would not have resulted in a material change to postretirement expense for our plans. We have assumed the initial year increase in cost of health care to be 6.53%, with the trend rate decreasing to 4.44% by 2029. 34 Business Combinations, Impairment of Long-Lived Assets (including property, plant and equipment), Identifiable Intangible Assets, and Goodwill —We use the acquisition method in accounting for acquired businesses. Under the acquisition method, our financial statements reflect the operations of an acquired business starting from the closing of the acquisition. The assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded at their respective estimated fair values at the date of the acquisition. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Significant judgment is often required in estimating the fair value of assets acquired, particularly intangible assets. As a result, in the case of significant acquisitions we normally obtain the assistance of a third-party valuation specialist in estimating fair values of tangible and intangible assets. The fair value estimates are based on available historical information and on expectations and assumptions about the future, considering the perspective of marketplace participants. While management believes those expectations and assumptions are reasonable, they are inherently uncertain. Unanticipated market or macroeconomic events and circumstances may occur, which could affect the accuracy or validity of the estimates and assumptions. We reduce the carrying amounts of long-lived assets (including property, plant and equipment) to their fair values when their carrying amount is determined to not be recoverable. We generally compare undiscounted estimated future cash flows of an asset or asset group to the carrying values of the asset or asset group. If the undiscounted estimated future cash flows exceed the carrying values of the asset or asset group, no impairment is recognized. If the undiscounted estimated future cash flows are less than the carrying values of the asset or asset group, we write-down the asset or assets to their estimated fair values. The estimates of fair value are generally in the form of appraisal, or by discounting estimated future cash flows of the asset or asset group. Determining the useful lives of intangible assets also requires management judgment. Certain brand intangibles are expected to have indefinite lives based on their history and our plans to continue to support and build the acquired brands, while other acquired intangible assets (e.g., customer relationships) are expected to have determinable useful lives. Our estimates of the useful lives of definite-lived intangible assets are primarily based upon historical experience, the competitive and macroeconomic environment, and our operating plans. The costs of definite-lived intangibles are amortized to expense over their estimated life. We reduce the carrying amounts of indefinite-lived intangible assets, and goodwill to their fair values when the fair value of such assets is determined to be less than their carrying amounts (i.e., assets are deemed to be impaired). Fair value is typically estimated using a discounted cash flow analysis, which requires us to estimate the future cash flows anticipated to be generated by the particular asset being tested for impairment as well as to select a discount rate to measure the present value of the anticipated cash flows. When determining future cash flow estimates, we consider historical results adjusted to reflect current and anticipated operating conditions. Estimating future cash flows requires significant judgment by management in such areas as future economic conditions, industry-specific conditions, product pricing, and necessary capital expenditures. The use of different assumptions or estimates for future cash flows could produce different impairment amounts (or none at all) for long-lived assets and identifiable intangible assets. In assessing other intangible assets not subject to amortization for impairment, we have the option to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of such an intangible asset is less than its carrying amount. If we determine that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of such an intangible asset is less than its carrying amount, then we are not required to perform any additional tests for assessing intangible assets for impairment. However, if we conclude otherwise or elect not to perform the qualitative assessment, then we are required to perform a quantitative impairment test that involves a comparison of the estimated fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying value. If the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. If we perform a quantitative impairment test in evaluating impairment of our indefinite lived brands/trademarks, we utilize a "relief from royalty" methodology. The methodology determines the fair value of each brand through use of a discounted cash flow model that incorporates an estimated "royalty rate" we would be able to charge a third party for the use of the particular brand. When determining the future cash flow estimates, we estimate future net sales and a fair market royalty rate for each applicable brand and an appropriate discount rate to measure the present value of the anticipated cash flows. Estimating future net sales requires significant judgment by management in such areas as future economic conditions, product pricing, and consumer trends. In determining an appropriate discount rate to apply to the estimated future cash flows, we consider the current interest rate environment and our estimated cost of capital. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment of value and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may be impaired. A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining if an indicator of impairment has occurred. Such indicators may include deterioration in general economic conditions, adverse changes in the markets in which an entity operates, increases in input costs that have negative effects on earnings and cash flows, or a trend of negative or 35 declining cash flows over multiple periods, among others. The fair value that could be realized in an actual transaction may differ from that used to evaluate the impairment of goodwill. In testing goodwill for impairment, we have the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not (more than 50%) that the estimated fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If we elect to perform a qualitative assessment and determine that an impairment is more likely than not, we are then required to perform a quantitative impairment test, otherwise no further analysis is required. We also may elect not to perform the qualitative assessment and, instead, proceed directly to the quantitative impairment test. Under the qualitative assessment, various events and circumstances that would affect the estimated fair value of a reporting unit are identified (similar to impairment indicators above). Furthermore, management considers the results of the most recent quantitative impairment test completed for a reporting unit and compares the weighted average cost of capital between the current and prior years for each reporting unit. Under the quantitative impairment test, the evaluation involves comparing the current fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. Fair value is typically estimated using a discounted cash flow analysis, which requires us to estimate the future cash flows anticipated to be generated by the reporting unit being tested for impairment as well as to select a risk-adjusted discount rate to measure the present value of the anticipated cash flows. When determining future cash flow estimates, we consider historical results adjusted to reflect current and anticipated operating conditions. We estimate cash flows for the reporting unit over a discrete period (typically five years) and the terminal period (considering expected long term growth rates and trends). Estimating future cash flows requires significant judgment by management in such areas as future economic conditions, industry-specific conditions, product pricing, and necessary capital expenditures. The use of different assumptions or estimates for future cash flows or significant changes in risk-adjusted discount rates due to changes in market conditions could produce substantially different estimates of the fair value of the reporting unit. As of May 30, 2021, we have goodwill of $11.37 billion, indefinite-lived intangibles of $3.30 billion and definite-lived intangibles of $856.4 million. The amount of goodwill and intangibles increased significantly during fiscal 2019 as a result of the Pinnacle acquisition. In the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we reorganized our reporting segments to incorporate the Pinnacle business into our legacy reporting segments, to reflect how the business is now being managed. We tested goodwill for impairment both prior to and subsequent to the reallocation of Pinnacle goodwill and there were no impairments of goodwill. Historically, we have experienced impairments in brand intangibles and goodwill as a result of declining sales and other economic conditions. For instance, in fiscal 2021 and 2020, we recorded total intangibles impairments of $90.9 million and $165.5 million respectively, primarily related to our recently acquired Pinnacle brands. In fiscal 2019, we recorded total intangibles impairments of $89.6 million, primarily related to our Chef Boyardee ® brand intangible. With the addition of Pinnacle intangibles that were recorded at fair value in fiscal 2019, we continue to be more susceptible to impairment charges in the future if our long-term sales forecasts, royalty rates, and other assumptions change as a result of lower than expected performance or other economic conditions. We will monitor these assumptions as management continues to achieve expected synergies, gross margin improvement, and long-term sales growth on certain key brands acquired in the acquisition including, but not limited to, Birds Eye ® , Duncan Hines ® , Gardein ® and Vlasic ® .