********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

A wide range of risks may affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, now and in the future. We consider the risks described below to be the most significant. There may be other currently unknown or unpredictable factors that could have adverse effects on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry If our streaming business is unsuccessful, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected Streaming is intensely competitive and cash intensive and there can be no assurance our streaming business will be profitable or otherwise successful. Our ability to continue to attract, engage and retain streaming subscribers and active users (together, “users”), as well as generate the corresponding subscription and advertising revenues, depends on a number of factors, including our ability to consistently provide appealing and differentiated content that resonates globally, effectively market our content and services, and provide a quality experience for selecting and viewing that content. Our success will require significant investments to produce original content and acquire the rights to third-party content, including sports, as well as the establishment and maintenance of key content and distribution partnerships. If we are unable to manage costs or maintain such partnerships, we may fail to meet our profitability goals. We must continually add new users, including through expansion into new markets and converting promotional subscribers, while also meaningfully engaging existing users with new and exciting content to manage “churn” and maximize our advertising and subscription revenues. If we are unable to successfully compete with competitors in attracting, engaging and retaining users, as well as creative talent, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. If consumers do not consider our streaming services to be of value compared to competing services, including because we fail to introduce compelling new content and features, do not maintain competitive pricing, terminate or modify promotional or trial period offerings, or change the mix of content in a manner that is unfavorably received, or because they experience technical issues or do not think that they use our streaming services sufficiently, we may not be able to attract, engage and retain users, and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Our advertising revenues have been and may continue to be adversely impacted by changes in consumer viewership, advertising market conditions and deficiencies in audience measurement We derive substantial revenues from the sale of advertising, and a decline in advertising revenues could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The evolution of consumer preferences toward streaming and other digital services and the increasing number of entertainment choices has intensified audience fragmentation and reduced content viewership through traditional linear distribution models, which has caused and may continue to cause ratings and viewer declines for our television networks. This evolution has also given rise to new ways of purchasing advertising, as well as a general shift in total advertising expenditures toward streaming and digital, some of which may not be as beneficial to us as traditional advertising methods. In addition, a number of other streaming services have introduced advertising-supported tiers, which creates competition for advertising expenditures for our own advertising-supported streaming services. There can be no assurance that we can successfully navigate the evolving streaming and digital advertising market or that the advertising revenues we generate in that market will replace the declines in advertising revenues generated from our traditional linear business. The strength of the advertising market can fluctuate, reflecting factors that include general macroeconomic conditions as well as the economic prospects and spending priorities of specific advertisers or industries. Natural and other disasters, pandemics, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or hostilities could also lead to a reduction in domestic and international advertising expenditures as a result of disrupted programming and services, I-15 uninterrupted news coverage and economic uncertainty. Our ability to generate advertising revenue is also dependent on demand for our content, the consumers in our targeted demographics, advertising rates and results observed by advertisers. Major sports events, such as the Super Bowl and the NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball Tournament and state, congressional and presidential elections cycles may cause our advertising revenues to vary substantially from year to year. Political advertising expenditures are impacted by the ability and willingness of candidates and political action campaigns to raise and spend funds on advertising and the competitive nature of the elections affecting viewers in markets featuring our content. Advertising sales are also largely dependent on audience measurement and could be negatively affected if measurement methodologies do not accurately reflect viewership levels. Nielsen’s statistical sampling method is the primary measurement technique used in our television advertising sales; however, it does not fully measure viewership across streaming and digital. We measure and monetize across our streaming services using census-based advertising-server data establishing the number of impressions served, combined with third-party data providing demographic composition estimates. Multiplatform campaign verification remains in its infancy and is still not measured by any one consistently applied method. While we expect innovation and standards around multiplatform measurement to benefit us as the advertising market continues to evolve, we are nevertheless partially dependent on third parties to deliver those solutions. Our ability to target and measure audiences is also limited by an increasing number of global laws and regulations. We operate in highly competitive industries We face substantial and increasing competition to attract creative talent, produce and acquire the rights to high-quality content, and for distribution on a variety of third-party platforms. Competition for talent, content, audiences, subscribers, service providers, production infrastructure, advertising and distribution is intense and comes from other television networks and stations, streaming services (including those that provide pirated content), social media, film studios and independent film producers and distributors, consumer products companies and other entertainment outlets and platforms, as well as from “second screen” applications. We also compete with additional entrants into the market for the production of original content. These competitive pressures have increased, and may continue to increase. Accordingly, the prices we pay for talent and intellectual property rights have resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant cost increases. We invest significant resources to produce, market and distribute original content. We also acquire content and ancillary rights and pay related rights fees, license fees, royalties and/or contingent compensation. We license various music rights from major record companies, music publishers and performing rights organizations. If these competitive pressures continue to increase, we may not be able to produce or acquire content in a cost-effective manner. We may be outbid by our competitors for the rights to new, popular content or in connection with the renewals of popular rights we currently hold. Accordingly, there can be no assurance we will realize anticipated returns on our investments. Consolidation among our competitors and other market participants has increased, and may continue to increase, also resulting in increased competitive pressures. Our competitors include companies with interests in multiple media businesses that are often vertically integrated, as well as companies in adjacent sectors with significant financial, marketing and other resources, greater efficiencies of scale, fewer regulatory burdens and more competitive pricing. Such competitors could also have preferential access to important technologies, such as artificial intelligence, customer data or other competitive information. Our competitors may also enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. This competition could result in a decrease in users, lower ratings and advertising revenues, lower affiliate and other revenues, and increased content costs and promotional and other expenses, negatively affecting our ability to generate revenues and profitability. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors, or that competition in the marketplace will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. I-16 Our success depends on our ability to maintain attractive brands and to offer popular content Our ability to maintain attractive brands and to create, distribute and/or license popular content are key to our success and ability to generate revenues. The revenues we generate primarily depend on our ability to consistently anticipate and satisfy consumer tastes and expectations, both in the U.S. and internationally. Consumer tastes and behavior change frequently, and it is a challenge to anticipate what will be successful at any point in time. The popularity of our original content and the content we acquire from third parties is affected by our ability to develop and maintain strong reputation and brand awareness; our ability to target key audiences; the quality and attractiveness of competing content; and the availability and popularity of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure activities. A shortfall in the expected popularity of content we distribute, including sports for which we have acquired rights, could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in consumer behavior, as well as evolving technologies and distribution models, may negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations Our success depends on our ability to anticipate and adapt to shifting content consumption patterns. The ways in which viewers consume content, and technology and business models in our industry, continue to evolve, and new distribution platforms, as well as increased competition from new entrants and emerging technologies, have added to the complexity of maintaining predictable revenues. Technological advancements have empowered consumers to seek more control over how they consume content and have affected the options available to advertisers for reaching target audiences. This trend has impacted certain traditional distribution models, as demonstrated by industrywide declines in broadcast and cable ratings, declines in cable subscribers, the development of alternative distribution platforms for broadcast and cable programming and reduced theatergoing. Declines in linear viewership are expected to continue and possibly accelerate, which could adversely affect our advertising and affiliate revenues. To respond to these developments, we regularly adopt or develop new technologies and consider, and from time to time implement, changes to our business models and strategies to remain competitive, such as our increased investment in streaming. There can be no assurance that we will successfully anticipate or respond to these developments, that we will not experience disruption, even as we respond to such developments, or that the new technologies or business models we develop will be as successful or as profitable as historic or existing ones. The loss of affiliation and distribution agreements, renewal of these agreements on less favorable terms or adverse interpretations thereof could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations A significant portion of our revenues are attributable to agreements with a limited number of distributors. These agreements generally have fixed terms that vary by market and distributor, and there can be no assurance that they will be renewed in the future, or renewed on favorable terms, including those related to pricing and programming tiers. The loss of existing packaging, positioning, pricing or other marketing opportunities and the loss of carriage or the failure to renew our agreements with any distributor, or renew them on favorable terms, could reduce the distribution of our programming and program services and decrease the potential audience for our programs, thereby negatively affecting our growth prospects and revenues from both affiliate fees and advertising. The CBS Network provides affiliated television stations regularly scheduled programming in return for the insertion of network commercials during that programming and the payment of reverse compensation. The loss of such station affiliation agreements could adversely affect our results of operations by reducing the reach of our programming and therefore our attractiveness to advertisers, and renewal of these affiliation agreements on less favorable terms may also adversely affect our results of operations. Consolidation among and vertical integration of distributors in the cable or broadcast network business has provided more leverage to these distributors and could adversely affect our ability to maintain or obtain distribution for our network programming or distribution and/or marketing of our subscription services on favorable or commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Also, consolidation among television station group owners I-17 could increase their negotiating leverage. Competitive pressures faced by MVPDs, particularly in light of evolving consumer consumption patterns and new distribution models, could adversely affect the terms of our renewals with MVPDs. In addition, MVPDs continue to develop alternative offerings for consumers. To the extent these offerings do not include our content and become widely accepted in lieu of traditional offerings, we could experience a decline in affiliate revenues. Our revenues are dependent on the compliance of major distributors with the terms of our affiliation or distribution agreements. As these agreements have grown in complexity, the number of disputes regarding their interpretation and even their validity has grown, resulting in greater uncertainty and, from time to time, litigation with respect to our rights and obligations. Some of our distribution agreements contain “most favored nation” (“MFN”) clauses, which provide that if we enter into an agreement with a distributor and such agreement includes terms that are more favorable than those held by a distributor holding an MFN right, we must offer some of those terms to the distributor holding the MFN right. Disagreements with a distributor on the interpretation or validity of an agreement could adversely impact our affiliate and advertising revenues, as well as our relationship with that distributor. Damage to our reputation or brands may negatively impact us across businesses and regions Our reputation and globally recognized brands are critical to our success. Our reputation depends on a number of factors, including the quality of our offerings, the level of trust we maintain with our customers and our ability to successfully innovate. Because our brands engage consumers across our businesses, damage to our reputation or brands in one business may have an impact on our others and, because some of our brands are recognized around the world, brand damage may not be locally contained. Significant negative claims or publicity regarding Paramount or its operations, content, products, management, employees, practices, business partners, business decisions, social responsibility and culture, including individuals associated with the content we create and/or license, as well as our inability to adequately prepare for or respond to such negative claims or publicity, may damage our brands or reputation, even if such claims are untrue. Damage to our reputation or brands could impact our sales, number of viewers and users, business opportunities, profitability, retention, recruiting and the trading price of our securities. Our ongoing investments in new businesses, products, services, technologies and other strategic activities present many risks, and we may not realize intended financial and strategic goals We have invested in, and may continue to invest in, new businesses, products, services, technologies and other strategic initiatives, including through acquisitions, strategic partnerships and investments, restructurings and transformation initiatives. These investments may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including: difficulty integrating acquired businesses; failure to realize anticipated benefits; unanticipated problems, expenses and liabilities; potential disruption to our business and operations; diversion of management’s attention; difficulty managing expanded operations; the loss or inability to retain key employees and creative talent; unanticipated challenges to or loss of our relationship with new or existing customers, viewers, advertisers, suppliers, distributors, licensors; insufficient revenues from such investments to offset any new liabilities assumed and expenses associated with new investments; and failure to successfully develop an acquired business or technology. Many of these factors are outside of our control, and because new investments are inherently risky, and the anticipated benefits or value of these investments may not materialize, there can be no assurance that such investments and other strategic initiatives will not adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We could suffer losses due to asset impairment charges for goodwill, intangible assets, FCC licenses and programming Certain future events and circumstances, including deterioration of market conditions, higher cost of capital, a decline in advertising markets, a decrease in audience acceptance of our content, a shift by advertisers to competing advertising platforms and/or changes in consumer behavior could result in a downward revision in the estimated fair value of a reporting unit, intangible assets, including FCC licenses, and/or programming assets, I-18 which could result in a noncash impairment charge. Any such impairment charge for goodwill, intangible assets and/or programming could have a material adverse effect on our reported net earnings. Environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters may impact our business We are committed to advancing and strengthening our approach to addressing ESG-related matters and we have announced a number of ESG initiatives and goals, but such initiatives, and our response to new ESG-related laws and regulations, will require additional investments, as well as the attention of our management team in connection with implementation and oversight of new practices and reporting processes, which will impose additional compliance risk. Our ability to implement these new initiatives and requirements and achieve the targets we may be expected to reach will be dependent on a number of factors, and there can be no assurance that we will achieve our goals or that our initiatives will achieve their intended outcomes. In addition, consumers’ perceptions of our initiatives, the goals that we set and our efforts to achieve them may present risks to our reputation and brands. If we are unable to meet the ESG goals we set or if our goals are not aligned with expectations of our stakeholders, we may lose employees and creative talent, and have difficulty recruiting or attracting new employees, talent, partners or investors, all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Relating to Business Continuity, Cybersecurity and Privacy and Data Protection Disruptions or failures of, or cybersecurity attacks on, our or our service providers’ networks, information systems and other technologies could result in the disclosure of confidential or valuable business or personal information, disruption of our businesses, damage to our brands and reputation, and legal exposure and financial losses; and our business continuity plans may prove inadequate to address any such disruption, failure or attack Cloud services, networks, software, information systems and other technologies we use or that are used by our third-party service providers and our product suppliers (“Providers”), including technology systems used by us and our Providers in connection with the production and distribution of our content (including content delivery networks to stream programming, films and other content in high volume to viewers and users of our online, mobile and app offerings over the internet) and that otherwise perform important functions (“Systems”), are critical to our business activities. Shutdowns, disruptions and attacks on our or our Providers’ Systems pose increasing risks to our business and may be caused by third-party hacking; dissemination of computer viruses, worms, malware, ransomware and other destructive or disruptive software; denial-of-service attacks and other bad acts; human error; and power outages, natural disasters, extreme weather, terrorist attacks or other similar events. Shutdowns, disruptions and attacks could have an adverse impact on us, our business partners, advertisers and other Providers, employees, viewers and users of our content, including degradation or disruption of service, loss of data and damage to equipment and data. Steps we or our Providers take to enhance, improve or upgrade Systems may not be sufficient to avoid shutdowns, disruptions and attacks. Significant events could result in a disruption of our operations and reduction of our revenues, the loss of or damage to the integrity of data used by management to make decisions and operate our businesses, viewer or advertiser dissatisfaction or a loss of viewers or advertisers, and damage to our reputation or brands. In addition, our recovery and business continuity plans may prove inadequate to address any such disruption, failure or cybersecurity attack. We are subject to risks caused by the misappropriation, misuse, falsification or intentional or accidental release or loss of business or personal data or programming content maintained in our or our Providers’ Systems, including proprietary and personal information (of third parties, employees and users of our online, mobile and app offerings), business information, including intellectual property, or other confidential information. Outside parties may attempt to penetrate our or our Providers’ Systems, or fraudulently induce employees, business partners or users of our online, mobile and app offerings to disclose sensitive or confidential information, in order to gain access to our own proprietary data or the data of our subscribers’ or users’, our programming or our intellectual property. The number and sophistication of attempted and successful phishing, information security breaches or disruptive ransomware or denial-of-service attacks have increased significantly in recent years, and because of our I-19 prominence, we and/or Providers we use may be a particularly attractive target for such attacks. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, or disable, degrade or sabotage, networks and Systems change frequently, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques, implement adequate security measures or remediate flaws or detect intrusion on a timely or effective basis. Despite our efforts, the possibility of these adverse events occurring cannot be eliminated. If a material breach of our Systems or those of our Providers occurs, the perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed, we could lose subscribers, viewers, revenues, advertisers and other business partners, and users of our online, mobile and app offerings; our reputation, brands and credibility could be damaged; and we could be required to expend significant amounts of money and other resources to repair, replace or recover such Systems. We could also be subject to actions by regulatory authorities and claims asserted in private litigation. The costs relating to any data breach could be material, and we may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate us for any losses associated with such events. We are subject to complex, often inconsistent and potentially costly laws, rules, regulations, industry standards and contractual obligations relating to privacy and personal data protection We are subject to laws, rules, regulations, industry standards and contractual obligations in the U.S. and in other countries relating to privacy and the collection, use, transfer, storage and security of personal data. In the E.U., for example, the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) mandates data protection compliance obligations and authorizes significant fines for noncompliance, requiring extensive compliance resources and efforts on our part. Further, a number of other regions where we do business have enacted or are considering new data protection regulations that may impact our business activities. In the U.S., the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”) mandates a host of new obligations for businesses regarding how they handle the personal information of California residents. There are also several new state laws in the U.S. that will go into effect in 2023, including the new California Privacy Right Act that will amend the CCPA in early 2023, as well as comprehensive privacy laws in Colorado, Connecticut, Utah and Virginia, all of which will expand the consumer rights provided under the CCPA to other states and create even more onerous obligations, including a requirement to implement mechanisms to allow consumers to opt out of personal data sharing with third parties in the context of digital advertising. In addition, beginning in 2023, California will also offer equivalent privacy rights in the employment and business-to-business context, similar to what already exists under GDPR in the E.U. We are also subject to laws and regulations intended specifically to protect the interests of children and the online safety and privacy of minors, including the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA) in the U.S., the GDPR in the E.U., and codes of conduct and rules relating to the design of digital products and services likely to be accessed by children including the U.K.’s Age Appropriate Design Code and the California Age Appropriate Design Code Act, which goes into effect in 2024. As a result, we have been required to limit some functionality on digital properties and may be limited relative to our abilities to leverage new media with respect to children’s programming or services. Such regulations also restrict the types of advertising we are able to sell on these digital properties and how we perform measurement for advertising purposes and impose strict liability on us for certain of our actions, as well as certain actions of our advertisers and other third parties, which could affect advertising demand and pricing. Compliance with privacy and data protection rules, regulations, industry standards and contractual obligations, which may be inconsistent with one another, and noncompliance could result in regulatory investigations and enforcement, significant monetary fines, breaches of contractual obligations and private litigation. Any actual or perceived noncompliance could also lead to harm to our reputation and market position. See “Business — Regulation — Global Data Protection Laws and Children’s Privacy Laws .” Risks Relating to Intellectual Property Infringement of our content reduces revenue received from the distribution of our programming, films, books, interactive games and other entertainment content Our success depends in part on our ability to maintain and monetize our intellectual property rights. We are fundamentally a content company and infringement of our content — specifically, the infringement of our films, I-20 television programming, digital content, books, interactive games and other intellectual property rights — adversely affects the value of our content. Copyright infringement is particularly prevalent in many parts of the world that lack effective laws and technical protection measures similar to those existing in the U.S. and Europe or lack effective enforcement of such measures, or both. Such foreign copyright infringement can also create a supply of pirated content for major markets. The interpretation of copyright, trademark and other intellectual property laws as applied to our content, and our infringement-detection and enforcement efforts, remain in flux, and some methods of enforcement have encountered political or commercial opposition. The failure to appropriately enforce and/or the weakening of existing intellectual property laws could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect and monetize our intellectual property and thus negatively affect its value. Copyright infringement is made easier by the wide availability of higher bandwidth and reduced storage costs, as well as tools that undermine encryption and other security features and enable infringers to disguise their identities online. We and our production and distribution partners operate various technology systems in connection with the production and distribution of our programming and films, and intentional or unintentional acts could result in unauthorized access to our content. The continuing proliferation of digital formats and technologies heightens this risk. Internet-connected televisions, set-top boxes and mobile devices are ubiquitous, and many can support illegal retransmission platforms, illicit video-on-demand or streaming services and pre-loaded hardware, providing more accessible, versatile and legitimate-looking environments for consuming unlicensed film and television content. Unauthorized access to our content could result in the premature release of films, television programs or other content as well as a reduction in demand for authorized content, which would likely have significant adverse effects on the value of the affected content and our ability to monetize it. Copyright infringement reduces the revenue that we are able to generate from the legitimate sale and distribution of our content, undermines lawful distribution channels, reduces the public’s and some affiliate partners’ perceived value of our content and inhibits our ability to recoup or profit from the costs incurred to create such content. We are actively engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property, and it is likely that we will continue to expend substantial resources in connection with these initiatives. Efforts to prevent the unauthorized reproduction, distribution and exhibition of our content may affect our profitability and may not be successful in preventing harm to our business. Risks Relating to Macroeconomic and Political Conditions Economic and political conditions in a variety of markets around the world could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations Our businesses operate and have audiences, customers and partners worldwide, and we are focused on expanding our international operations in key markets, some of which are emerging markets. Accordingly, the economic conditions in many different markets around the world affect a number of aspects of our businesses. The global financial markets have experienced significant recent volatility, marked by declining economic growth, diminished liquidity and availability of credit, declines in consumer confidence, significant concerns for increasing and persistently high inflation and uncertainty about economic stability. The global financial markets have also been adversely affected by current geopolitical events, including Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. The sanctions imposed against Russia in response to the invasion may also adversely impact the financial markets and the global economy. There can be no assurance that further deterioration in credit and financial markets and confidence in economic conditions will not occur. Volatility and weakness in the capital markets, the tightening of credit markets or a decrease in our debt ratings could adversely affect our ability to obtain cost-effective financing. Increasing inflation in the U.S. raises our costs for labor and services and other costs required to operate our business. Economic conditions in each market (such as current high inflation or global supply chain issues) can also impact our audience’s discretionary spending and therefore their willingness to access our content, as well as the businesses of our partners who purchase advertising on our networks, causing them to reduce their spending on advertising. We may also be subject to longer payment cycles. In addition, as we have expanded our international I-21 operations, our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar has increased, and there is no assurance that downward trending currencies will rebound or that stable currencies will remain stable in any period. We may also be impacted by broader supply chain delays, such as those currently impacting global distribution. Our businesses are also exposed to certain political risks inherent in conducting a global business, including retaliatory actions by governments reacting to changes in the U.S. and other countries, including in connection with trade negotiations; issues related to the presence of corruption in certain markets and enforcement of anticorruption laws and regulations; increased risk of political instability in some markets as well as conflict and sanctions preventing us from accessing those markets; escalating trade, immigration and nuclear disputes; wars, acts of terrorism or other hostilities (such as the conflict between Russia and Ukraine); and other political, economic or other uncertainties. These political and economic risks could create instability in any of the markets where our businesses derive revenues, which could result in a reduction of revenue or loss of investment that adversely affects our businesses, financial condition or results of operations. COVID-19 and other pandemics could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations The COVID-19 pandemic continues to negatively impact the global macroeconomic environment. COVID-19 and the governmental measures to control its spread such as restrictions on travel and business operations, temporary closures of businesses, social distancing measures, restrictions on large gatherings of people and quarantine and shelter-in-place orders have contributed to a difficult macroeconomic environment, including a decline in consumer confidence, global supply chain issues and inflation, prolonged declines in economic growth, and changes in consumer behavior. Other pandemics or widespread health emergencies may have similar effects. As a result of COVID-19, our advertising revenues were negatively impacted due to weakness in the advertising market, the cancellation or postponement of sporting events, and the delay of the broadcast television season as a result of production shutdowns. COVID-19 also had a negative effect on our licensing revenues due to production shutdowns, delays in our delivery of content to third parties, and fewer original programs and live events airing on our networks. Our theatrical revenues were negatively impacted by the closure or reduced capacity of movie theaters, and we experienced lower demand for the licensing of our content from advertising-supported licensees. The magnitude of the continuing impact of COVID-19 and new and emerging variants, which could be material to our business, financial condition and results of operations, will depend on numerous evolving factors that we are not be able to accurately predict or control, including the duration and extent of the pandemic; the extent, duration and impact of governmental measures; consumer behavior in response to the pandemic and such measures; and economic and operating conditions in the aftermath of COVID-19. A resurgence of COVID-19, an increase in infection rates or the effect of new variants could trigger a renewal of government restrictions and other precautionary actions that could again negatively impact our businesses as described above. Due to the evolving and uncertain nature of the COVID-19 pandemic and the risk of new variants, we are not able to estimate the full extent of the impact that COVID-19 will have on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and that impact could also exacerbate the other risks described herein. Risks Relating to Legal and Regulatory Matters Failures to comply with or changes in U . S . or foreign laws or regulations may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, both in the U.S. and/or in the foreign jurisdictions in which we or our partners operate, including laws and regulations relating to intellectual property, content regulation, privacy, data protection, anticorruption, repatriation of profits, tax regimes, quotas, tariffs or other trade barriers, I-22 currency exchange controls, operating license and permit requirements, restrictions on foreign ownership or investment, anticompetitive conduct, export and market access restrictions. The broadcast and cable industries in the U.S. are highly regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC. For example, we are required to obtain licenses from the FCC to operate our television stations and periodically renew them. It cannot be assured that the FCC will approve our future renewal applications or that the renewals will be for full terms or will not include conditions or qualifications. The nonrenewal, or renewal with substantial conditions or modifications, of one or more of our licenses could have a material adverse effect on our revenues. We must also comply with extensive FCC limits on the ownership and operation of our television stations and the CBS Television Network, which could restrict our ability to consummate future transactions and in certain circumstances could require us to divest some television stations. Our businesses could be adversely affected by new laws and regulations, changes in existing laws, changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws by courts and regulators and the threat that additional laws or regulations may be forthcoming, as well as our ability to enforce our legal rights. We could be required to change or limit certain of our business practices, which could impact our ability to generate revenues. We could also incur substantial costs to comply with new and existing laws and regulations, or face substantial fines and penalties or other liabilities, or be subjected to increased scrutiny from regulators and stakeholders, if we fail to comply with such laws and regulations. Our liabilities related to discontinued operations and former businesses could adversely impact our financial conditions We have both recognized and potential liabilities and costs related to discontinued operations and former businesses, certain of which are unrelated to our existing business, including leases, guarantees, environmental liabilities, liabilities related to the pensions and medical expenses of retirees, asbestos liabilities, contractual disputes and other pending and threatened litigation. We cannot be assured that our accruals for these matters are sufficient to cover these liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, if and/or when they become due. Therefore, there can be no assurances that these liabilities will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating performance or cash flows. Risks Relating to Human Capital The loss of existing or inability to hire new key employees or secure creative talent could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations Our business depends on the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our executives and other employees and the creative talent with whom we work. We compete for executives in highly specialized and evolving industries and our ability to attract, retain and engage such individuals may be impacted by our reputation, workplace culture, the training, development, compensation and benefits we provide, our commitment to effectively managing executive succession, and our efforts with respect to DEI and ESG matters. We also employ or contract with entertainment personalities with loyal audiences and produce films and other content with highly regarded directors, producers, writers, actors and other creative talent in highly competitive markets. These individuals are important to attracting viewers and the success of our programs, films and other content, and our ability to attract and retain them may similarly be impacted by our reputation, culture and DEI and ESG efforts. There can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us or will retain their current appeal, or that the costs associated with retaining them or new talent will be reasonable. If we fail to retain or attract new key employees or creative talent, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, we and our business partners engage the services of writers, directors, actors, musicians and other creative talent, production crew members, trade employees, professional athletes and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Any labor disputes, including lockouts, strikes or work stoppages, may disrupt I-23 our operations and cause delays in the production of our programming, which could increase our costs and have an adverse effect on our revenues, cash flows and/or operating income. Risks Relating to Ownership of our Common Stock We have experienced, and may continue to experience, volatility in the price of our Common Stock We have experienced, and may continue to experience, volatility in the price of our Common Stock. Various factors have impacted, and may continue to impact, the price of our Common Stock, including variations in our operating results; changes in our estimates, guidance or business plans; variations between our actual results and expectations of securities analysts, and changes in recommendations by securities analysts; market sentiment about our business, including the viability of our streaming business and views related to its profitability; the activities, operating results or stock price of our competitors or other industry participants in the industries in which we operate; changes in management; the announcement or completion of significant transactions by us or a competitor; events affecting the stock market generally; and the broader macroeconomic and political environment in the U.S. and internationally, as well as other factors and risks described in this section. Some of these factors may adversely impact the price of our Common Stock, regardless of our operating performance. NAI, through its voting control of the Company, is in a position to control actions that require stockholder approval NAI, through its direct and indirect ownership of our Class A Common Stock, has voting control of the Company. As of December 31, 2022, NAI directly or indirectly owned approximately 77.4% of our voting Class A Common Stock, representing approximately 9.8% of our Common Stock. NAI is controlled by the Sumner M. Redstone National Amusements Part B General Trust (the “General Trust”), which owns 80% of the voting interest of NAI and acts by majority vote of seven voting trustees (subject to certain exceptions), including with respect to the NAI shares held by the General Trust. Shari E. Redstone, Chairperson, CEO and President of NAI and non-executive Chair of our Board of Directors , is one of the seven voting trustees for the General Trust and is one of two voting trustees who are beneficiaries of the General Trust. No member of our management or other member of our Board of Directors is a trustee of the General Trust. NAI is in a position to control the outcome of corporate actions that require, or may be accomplished by, stockholder approval, including amending our bylaws, the election or removal of directors and transactions involving a change of control. For example, our bylaws provide that: • the affirmative vote of not less than a majority of the aggregate voting power of all outstanding shares of our capital stock then entitled to vote generally in an election of directors, voting together as a single class, is required for our stockholders to amend, alter, change, repeal or adopt any of our bylaws; • any or all of our directors may be removed from office at any time prior to the expiration of his or her term of office, with or without cause, only by the affirmative vote of the holders of record of outstanding shares representing at least a majority of all the aggregate voting power of outstanding shares of our Common Stock then entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class at a special meeting of our stockholders called expressly for that purpose; and • in accordance with the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, our stockholders may act by written consent without a meeting if such stockholders hold the number of shares representing not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such actions at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted. Accordingly, our stockholders who may have different interests are unable to affect the outcome of any such corporate actions for so long as NAI retains voting control. I-24 Sales of NAI’s shares of our Common Stock, some of which are pledged to lenders, could adversely affect the stock price Based on information received from NAI, NAI has pledged to its lenders a portion of shares of our Class A Common Stock and our Class B Common Stock owned directly or indirectly by NAI. As of December 31, 2022, the aggregate number of shares pledged by NAI to its lenders represented approximately 4.5% of the total outstanding shares of our Common Stock. If there is a default on NAI’s debt obligations and the lenders foreclose on the pledged shares, the lenders may not effect a transfer, sale or disposition of any pledged shares of our Class A Common Stock unless NAI and its affiliates beneficially own 50% or less of our Class A Common Stock then outstanding or such shares have first been converted into our Class B Common Stock. A sale of the pledged shares could adversely affect our Common Stock share price. In addition, there can be no assurance that at some future time NAI will not sell or pledge additional shares of our Common Stock, which could adversely affect our Common Stock share price.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

INDEX TO MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS GENERAL Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, referred to as the “Financial Review,” is intended to assist the reader in the understanding and assessment of significant changes and trends related to the results of operations and financial position of McKesson Corporation together with its subsidiaries (collectively, the “Company,” “McKesson,” “we,” “our,” or “us” and other similar pronouns). This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying financial notes in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Annual Report”). Our fiscal year begins on April 1 and ends on March 31. Unless otherwise noted, all references to a particular year shall mean our fiscal year. Our Financial Review within this Annual Report generally discusses fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022 results and year-over-year comparisons between fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022. For a discussion of our year-over-year comparisons between fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021, refer to Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2022, previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 9, 2022. Certain statements in this Annual Report constitute forward-looking statements. See Item 1 - Business - Forward-Looking Statements in Part I of this Annual Report for additional factors relating to these statements and Item 1A - Risk Factors in Part I of this Annual Report for a list of certain risk factors applicable to our business, financial condition and liquidity, and results of operations. Overview of Our Business: We are a diversified healthcare services leader dedicated to advancing health outcomes for patients everywhere. Our teams partner with biopharma companies, care providers, pharmacies, manufacturers, governments, and others to deliver insights, products, and services to help make quality care more accessible and affordable. 30 McKESSON CORPORATION FINANCIAL REVIEW (Continued) We report our financial results in four reportable segments: U.S. Pharmaceutical, Prescription Technology Solutions (“RxTS”), Medical-Surgical Solutions, and International. Our organizational structure also includes Corporate, which consists of income and expenses associated with administrative functions and projects as well as the results of certain investments. The factors for determining the reportable segments include the manner in which management evaluates the performance of the Company combined with the nature of individual business activities. We evaluate the performance of our operating segments on a number of measures, including revenues and operating profit (loss) before interest expense and income taxes. The following summarizes our four reportable segments. Refer to Financial Note 20, “Segments of Business,” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for further information regarding our reportable segments. • U.S. Pharmaceutical is a reportable segment that distributes branded, generic, specialty, biosimilar, and over-the-counter pharmaceutical drugs and other healthcare-related products. This segment also provides practice management, technology, clinical support, and business solutions to community-based oncology and other specialty practices. In addition, the segment sells financial, operational, and clinical solutions to pharmacies (retail, hospital, alternate site) and provides consulting, outsourcing, technological, and other services. • Prescription Technology Solutions is a reportable segment that combines automation and our ability to navigate the healthcare ecosystems to connect patients, pharmacies, providers, pharmacy benefit managers, health plans, and biopharma companies to address patients’ medication access, affordability, and adherence challenges. RxTS also offers prescription price transparency, benefit insight, dispensing support services, third-party logistics, and wholesale distribution support across various therapeutic categories and temperature ranges to biopharma customers throughout the product lifecycle. • Medical-Surgical Solutions is a reportable segment that provides medical-surgical supply distribution, logistics, and other services to healthcare providers in the United States (“U.S.”), including physician offices, surgery centers, nursing homes, hospital reference labs, and home health care agencies. This segment offers national brand medical-surgical products as well as McKesson’s own line of high-quality products through a network of distribution centers within the U.S. • International is a reportable segment that includes our operations in Europe and Canada, bringing together non-U.S.-based drug distribution services, specialty pharmacy, retail, and infusion care services. During fiscal 2023, we completed transactions to sell certain of our businesses in the European Union (“E.U.”) and our retail and distribution businesses in the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), and during fiscal 2022, we completed the sale of our Austrian business. These divestitures are further described in the “European Divestiture Activities” section below. Our remaining operations in Europe provide distribution and services to wholesale, institutional, and retail customers in Norway where we own, partner, or franchise with retail pharmacies. Our operations in Canada deliver vital medicines, supplies and information technology solutions throughout Canada and includes Rexall Health pharmacies. Business Acquisitions and Divestitures Rx Savings Solutions, LLC On November 1, 2022, we completed the acquisition of 100% of the shares of Rx Savings Solutions, LLC (“RxSS”), a privately-owned company headquartered in Overland Park, Kansas, to further connect our biopharma and payer services to patients. RxSS is a prescription price transparency and benefit insight company that offers affordability and adherence solutions to health plans and employers. The purchase consideration included a payment of $600 million in cash made upon closing and a maximum of $275 million of contingent consideration based on RxSS’ operational and financial performance through calendar year 2025. The payment made upon closing was funded from cash on hand, and we recorded a liability of $92 million as of the acquisition date representing the estimated fair value of the contingent consideration. As of March 31, 2023, the current portion of $83 million is included within “Other accrued liabilities” and the long-term portion of $9 million is included within “Other non-current liabilities” in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The financial results of RxSS are included in our RxTS segment as of the acquisition date. The transaction was accounted for as a business combination. 31 McKESSON CORPORATION FINANCIAL REVIEW (Continued) SCRI Oncology, LLC On October 31, 2022, we completed a transaction with HCA to form SCRI Oncology, LLC (“SCRI Oncology”), an oncology research business, combining our U.S. Oncology Research (“USOR”) and HCA’s Sarah Cannon Research Institute (“SCRI”) based in Nashville, Tennessee, to advance cancer care and increase access to oncology clinical research. Upon consummation of the transaction, we own a 51% controlling interest in the combined business, and the financial results are consolidated and reported within our U.S. Pharmaceutical segment as of the acquisition date. Transaction consideration included the transfer of full ownership interest in USOR to the combined business and $173 million of cash paid to HCA, which was funded from cash on hand. The transaction was accounted for as a business combination. European Divestiture Activities On October 31, 2022, we completed the previously announced transaction to sell certain of our businesses in the E.U. located in France, Italy, Ireland, Portugal, Belgium, and Slovenia, along with our German headquarters and wound-care business, part of a shared services center in Lithuania, and our ownership stake in a joint venture in the Netherlands (“E.U. disposal group”) to the PHOENIX Group. As part of the transaction, we received cash proceeds of $892 million and divested net assets of $1.3 billion, including cash of $319 million, derecognized the carrying value of the noncontrolling interest held by minority shareholders of McKesson Europe AG (“McKesson Europe”) of $382 million, and released $153 million of net accumulated other comprehensive loss. We recorded net gains of $66 million and net charges of $438 million for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, in “Selling, distribution, general, and administrative expenses” in the Consolidated Statements of Operations to remeasure the assets and liabilities of our E.U. disposal group to fair value less costs to sell. The fiscal 2022 charges also included impairments of certain internal-use software that will not be utilized in the future, prior to adjusting the E.U. disposal group as a whole, and net losses of $151 million related to the accumulated other comprehensive loss balances associated with our E.U. disposal group, driven by declines in the Euro. On April 6, 2022, we completed the previously announced sale of our retail and distribution businesses in the U.K. (“U.K. disposal group”) to Aurelius Elephant Limited for a purchase price of £110 million (or, approximately $144 million), including certain adjustments. As part of the transaction, we divested net assets of $615 million and released $731 million of accumulated other comprehensive loss. During the year ended March 31, 2022, we recorded charges totaling $1.2 billion within “Selling, distribution, general, and administrative expenses” in our Consolidated Statement of Operations to remeasure the U.K. disposal group to fair value less costs to sell. The remeasurement adjustment included a $734 million loss related to the accumulated other comprehensive loss balances associated with the U.K. disposal group, driven by declines in the British pound sterling. On January 31, 2022, we completed the sale of our Austrian business to Quadrifolia Management GmbH in a management-led buyout for a purchase price of €244 million (or, approximately $276 million), including certain adjustments. During the year ended March 31, 2022, we recognized a loss of $32 million related to this divestiture which was recorded within “Selling, distribution, general, and administrative expenses” in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. As of March 31, 2023, we had no assets or liabilities related to these completed European divestiture activities that met the classification of held for sale in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Subsequent to the divestiture activities discussed above, the Company’s European operations primarily consist of its retail and distribution businesses in Norway. Refer to Financial Note 2, “Business Acquisitions and Divestitures,” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for more information regarding these acquisition and divestiture transactions. Executive Summary: The following summary provides highlights and key factors that impacted our business, operating results, financial condition, and liquidity for the year ended March 31, 2023: • For the year ended March 31, 2023 compared to the prior year, revenues increased by 5%, gross profit decreased by 6%, total operating expenses decreased by 28%, and other income, net increased by 92%. Refer to the “Overview of Consolidated Results” section below for an analysis of these changes; • Diluted earnings per common share from continuing operations attributable to McKesson Corporation increased to $25.05 in fiscal 2023 from $7.26 in the prior year, primarily driven by lower remeasurement charges of the U.K. and E.U. disposal groups recorded in fiscal 2023 compared to the prior year, and a lower share count due to the cumulative effect of share repurchases; 32 McKESSON CORPORATION FINANCIAL REVIEW (Continued) • In fiscal 2023, we extended our pharmaceutical distribution partnership with CVS to June 2027; • On November 1, 2022, we completed our acquisition of RxSS. The purchase consideration included a payment of $600 million in cash made upon closing and a maximum of $275 million of contingent consideration, as discussed in further detail in the “Business Acquisitions and Divestitures” section above; • On October 31, 2022, we completed a transaction with HCA to form SCRI Oncology. The transaction consideration included the transfer of full ownership interest in USOR to the combined business and $173 million of cash paid to HCA as discussed in further detail in the “Business Acquisitions and Divestitures” section above; • On October 31, 2022, we completed the sale of our E.U. disposal group and received cash proceeds of $892 million, as discussed in further detail in the “Business Acquisitions and Divestitures” section above; • In October 2022, we received $129 million related to our share of an antitrust settlement. This amount was recorded as a gain within “Cost of sales” in the Consolidated Statement of Operations within our U.S. Pharmaceutical segment; • In October 2022, we received $126 million due to early termination of a tax receivable agreement (“TRA”) with Change Healthcare Inc. (“Change”). This amount was recorded as a gain within “Other income, net” in the Consolidated Statement of Operations within Corporate; • During the third quarter of fiscal 2023, we terminated our $500 million notional forward starting fixed interest rate swaps and recognized a gain on the termination of $97 million within “Other income, net” in the Consolidated Statement of Operations within Corporate; • In July 2022, we exited one of our investments in equity securities for proceeds of $179 million and recognized a gain of $142 million within “Other income, net” in the Consolidated Statement of Operations within our U.S. Pharmaceutical segment; • On March 15, 2023, we retired our $360 million outstanding principal amount of 2.85% Notes due 2023 (the “2.85% Notes”) upon maturity. These notes were repaid using cash on hand; • On February 15, 2023, we completed a public offering of 5.25% Notes due 2026 (the “5.25% Notes”) in a principal amount of $500 million. Proceeds received from this note issuance, net of discounts and offering expenses, were $497 million; • On December 15, 2022, we retired our $400 million outstanding principal amount of 2.70% Notes due 2022 (the “2.70% Notes”) upon maturity. These notes were repaid using cash on hand; • On November 7, 2022, we entered into a syndicated $4.0 billion five-year senior unsecured credit facility (the “2022 Credit Facility”) which matures in November 2027 and replaced our previous syndicated senior unsecured credit facility which was scheduled to mature in September 2024; • Concurrent with our entry into the 2022 Credit Facility, on November 7, 2022, we entered into a $500 million unsecured delayed draw term loan facility (the “2022 Term Loan Credit Facility”). We drew $500 million of cash on the term loan in December 2022 which was used for general corporate purposes and was repaid in February 2023 using proceeds from the 5.25% Notes issuance described above; • We returned $3.9 billion of cash to shareholders through $3.6 billion of common stock repurchases under accelerated share repurchase (“ASR”) programs and open market transactions and through $292 million of dividend payments during fiscal 2023. The total remaining authorization outstanding for repurchase of the Company’s common stock at March 31, 2023 was $3.6 billion. In July 2022, we raised our quarterly dividend to $0.54 from $0.47 per common share; and • McKesson continued to play a leading role in the fight against the disease caused by the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus (“COVID-19”). In fiscal 2021, we began distributing certain COVID-19 vaccines under the direction of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (“CDC”). Since then, and through the end of fiscal 2023, we distributed over 480 million COVID-19 vaccine doses to administration sites all across the U.S. and in support of the U.S. government’s international donation mission. Although contributions from sales of COVID-19 tests and our COVID-19 vaccine and related ancillary supply kit distribution programs were favorable to our results for the year ended March 31, 2023, they were less favorable compared to fiscal 2022 as the recovery from the pandemic continued. For a more in-depth discussion of how COVID-19 impacted our business, operations, financial results, and outlook, refer to the COVID-19 section of "Trends and Uncertainties" included below. 33 McKESSON CORPORATION FINANCIAL REVIEW (Continued) Trends and Uncertainties: Legislative Developments On August 16, 2022, the U.S. government enacted the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (the “IR Act”). Among other provisions, the IR Act includes a 15% corporate minimum tax, a 1% excise tax on certain repurchases of an entity’s own common stock after December 31, 2022, and various drug pricing reforms. Based on our preliminary assessment, we do not currently expect the IR Act to have a material impact on our results of operations, our financial position, or cash flows in the foreseeable future. We will continue to evaluate the full impact of these legislative changes as they are implemented. The Impact of Inflationary and Global Events Our business and our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity are impacted by broad economic conditions including rising interest rates, inflation, increased competition for talent, and disruption of the supply chain, as well as by political or civil unrest or military action. Cost inflation generally affects us by increasing transportation, operational, and other administrative costs associated with our business operations which we might not be able to fully pass along to our customers. Although it is difficult to predict the impact that these factors may have on our business in the future, they did not have a material impact on our results of operations, our financial condition, or liquidity for the year ended March 31, 2023. COVID-19 COVID-19 has continued to evolve since it was declared a global pandemic by the World Health Organization on March 11, 2020. We continue to evaluate the nature and extent of the ongoing impacts of COVID-19, including the impacts from the continued pandemic recovery, on our business, operations, and financial results. The disclosures below include significant updates that occurred during fiscal 2023 and the financial impacts of COVID-19 in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022. Our Role in the Distribution of COVID-19 Vaccines and Ancillary Supply Kits As a diversified healthcare services leader, we have been well positioned to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic in the U.S. and Canada, and in Europe prior to the divestiture of the E.U. and U.K. disposal groups. We work closely with national and local governments, agencies, and industry partners to ensure that available supplies, including personal protective equipment (“PPE”), and medicine reach our customers and their patients. Since December 2020, we have supported the U.S. government as a centralized distributor of COVID-19 vaccines and ancillary supplies used to administer vaccines through a contract with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (“CDC”) and, in July 2022, we renewed our relationship with the CDC under this agreement. The results of operations related to this program are reflected in our U.S. Pharmaceutical segment. We also continue to operate under a contract to manage the assembly, storage, and distribution of ancillary supply kits needed to administer COVID-19 vaccines as directed by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”), the results of which are reflected in our Medical-Surgical Solutions segment. Our contracts with the CDC and HHS will continue into July 2023. McKesson Canada, and McKesson Europe prior to the divestiture of the E.U. and U.K. disposal groups, support governments and public health entities through distributing COVID-19 vaccines and administering them in pharmacies as well as distributing COVID-19 tests and certain PPE. 34 McKESSON CORPORATION FINANCIAL REVIEW (Continued) Trends in our Business We observed growth in prescription volumes within our U.S. Pharmaceutical segment and stability in patient visits in our primary care business within our Medical-Surgical Solutions segment during the year ended March 31, 2023, compared to the prior year as the recovery from COVID-19 continued. While the U.S. distribution of COVID-19 vaccines and related ancillary kits combined with higher sales for COVID-19 tests, corresponding to increased demand from the spike in positive COVID-19 cases as a result of the Delta and Omicron variants favorably impacted our results during the year ended March 31, 2022, the contributions from COVID-19 tests and our vaccine and related kitting distribution programs decreased year over year in fiscal 2023 primarily driven by lower demand as the pandemic recovery continued. Impact to our Supply Chain We continue to monitor and address the impacts on our supply chain which were initially related to the COVID-19 pandemic. Although the availability of various products is dependent on our suppliers, their locations, and the extent to which they continue to be impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, we proactively work with manufacturers, industry partners, and government agencies to meet the needs of our customers. Overall, during fiscal 2023, we had an increase in supply chain costs primarily related to transportation and labor; however, this did not materially impact our results of operations for the year ended March 31, 2023. As potential shortages or disruptions of any products are identified, we address supply continuity, which includes securing additional products when available, sourcing back-up products when needed, and following allocation procedures to maintain and protect supply as much as possible. We utilize business continuity action planning to maintain and protect operations across all locations and facilities. Impact to our Results of Operations, Financial Condition, and Liquidity The distribution of COVID-19 vaccines in our U.S. Pharmaceutical segment decreased during fiscal 2023 when compared to the same prior year period. The contribution was less than 10% to segment operating profit for each of the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022. The financial impacts from our COVID-19 response efforts in the International segment during fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022 were not material to our consolidated or segment operating results. For the year ended March 31, 2023, COVID-19 tests and the kitting and distribution of ancillary supplies for COVID-19 vaccines in our Medical-Surgical Solutions segment contributed approximately $765 million and $216 million to segment revenues and segment operating profit, respectively. For the year ended March 31, 2022, the contribution was approximately $1.8 billion to segment revenues and, including total inventory charges as further described below, increased our segment operating profit by approximately $208 million. These COVID-19 related items had a net unfavorable impact on consolidated income from continuing operations before income taxes for fiscal 2023 compared to the same prior year period, primarily driven by lower demand for COVID-19 tests as well as COVID-19 vaccines and related ancillary supply kits. During the year ended March 31, 2022 we recorded inventory charges totaling $164 million on certain PPE and other related products in our Medical-Surgical Solutions segment. We have taken measures to mitigate risks for market price volatility and changes to anticipated customer demand that may require additional write-downs in future periods of other PPE and related product categories. During fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022, we maintained appropriate labor and overall vendor supply levels and experienced no material impacts to our liquidity or net working capital due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Opioid-Related Litigation and Claims We are a defendant in many legal proceedings asserting claims related to the distribution of controlled substances (opioids) in federal and state courts throughout the U.S., and in Puerto Rico and Canada. The plaintiffs in these actions have included state attorneys general, county and municipal governments, tribal nations, hospitals, health and welfare funds, third-party payors, and individuals. 35 McKESSON CORPORATION FINANCIAL REVIEW (Continued) The Company and two other national pharmaceutical distributors (collectively “Distributors”) settled with 48 of 49 eligible states and their participating subdivisions, as well as the District of Columbia and all eligible territories (collectively, “Settling Governmental Entities”) effective on April 2, 2022 (the “Settlement”). Under the Settlement, the Distributors will pay the Settling Governmental Entities up to approximately $20.3 billion over 18 years, with up to approximately $7.8 billion to be paid by the Company for its 38.1% portion. Consent judgments have been entered in all participating states and territories, and approximately 2,300 cases have been dismissed pursuant to the Settlement. A minimum of 85% of the Settlement payments must be used by state and local governmental entities to remediate the opioid epidemic. Most of the remaining percentage relates to plaintiffs’ attorneys’ fees and costs, and is payable over a shorter time period. Under the Settlement, the Distributors will establish a clearinghouse to consolidate their controlled-substance distribution data, which will be available to the settling U.S. states to use as part of their anti-diversion efforts. The Settlement provides that the Distributors do not admit liability or wrongdoing and do not waive any defenses. The Settlement only addresses the claims of attorneys general of U.S. states and territories and political subdivisions in participating states and territories. Governmental entities not participating in the Settlement may continue to pursue their claims. The state of Alabama chose not to participate in the Settlement, and West Virginia was not eligible to participate. We have reached separate agreements to settle the claims of these states and their participating subdivisions. The Distributors also settled the claims of federally recognized Native American Tribes. Our total estimated liability for opioid-related claims was $7.2 billion as of March 31, 2023, of which $548 million was included in “Other accrued liabilities” for the amount estimated to be paid prior to March 31, 2024, and the remaining liability was included in “Long-term litigation liabilities” in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Although the vast majority of opioid claims have been brought by governmental entities in the U.S., the Company is also a defendant in cases brought in the U.S. by private plaintiffs, such as hospitals, health and welfare funds, third-party payors, and individuals, as well as four cases brought in Canada (three by governmental or tribal entities and one by an individual). These claims, and those of private individuals or entities generally, are not included in the Settlement or in the charges recorded by the Company, described above. The Company believes it has valid legal defenses in these matters and intends to mount a vigorous defense. Because of the many uncertainties associated with ongoing opioid-related litigation matters, we are not able to reasonably estimate the upper or lower ends of the range of ultimate possible loss for all opioid-related litigation matters. In light of the uncertainty, the amount of any ultimate loss may differ materially from the amount accrued. Notwithstanding the Settlement, we also continue to prepare for trial in pending matters. We believe that we have valid defenses to the claims pending against us and, absent an acceptable settlement, intend to vigorously defend against all such claims. An adverse judgment or negotiated resolution in any of these matters could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, cash flows or liquidity, or results of operations. Refer to Financial Note 17, “Commitments and Contingent Liabilities,” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for more information. Risks and Forward-Looking Information Key assumptions and estimates about future performance and values, including those used in our impairment assessments, can be affected by a variety of factors, including the impacts of socio-political events on industry and economic trends, as well as on our business strategy and internal forecasts. Recent such events include the COVID-19 pandemic and the war between Russia and Ukraine, and the associated economic impacts, which have disrupted aspects of the global economy over the last several years. We have experienced and may experience difficulties in sourcing products and changes in costs and pricing due to the effects of various socio-political events on supply chains. We periodically review our intangible and other long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Material changes to key assumptions and estimates could decrease the projected cash flows or increase the discount rates that could potentially result in future impairment charges, or otherwise adversely impact our financial position, cash flows or liquidity, or results of operations. Refer to Item 1A - Risk Factors in Part I of this Annual Report for a discussion of risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our projections. 36 McKESSON CORPORATION FINANCIAL REVIEW (Continued) RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview of Consolidated Results: bp - basis points 37 McKESSON CORPORATION FINANCIAL REVIEW (Continued) Revenues Revenues increased for the year ended March 31, 2023 compared to the prior year largely due to market growth in our U.S. Pharmaceutical segment. Market growth includes growing drug utilization, price increases, and newly launched products, partially offset by price deflation associated with branded to generic drug conversion. This revenue growth was partially offset by lower revenues in our International segment driven by the completed divestitures of our U.K. and E.U. disposal groups and our Austrian business, and unfavorable effects of foreign currency exchange fluctuations. Gross Profit Gross profit decreased for the year ended March 31, 2023 compared to the prior year primarily in our International segment driven by the completed divestitures of our U.K. and E.U. disposal groups, our Austrian business, and unfavorable effects of foreign currency exchange fluctuations, partially offset by growth of specialty pharmaceuticals and increased contributions from our generics programs in our U.S. Pharmaceutical segment and an increase in gross profit in our Medical-Surgical Solutions segment from prior year inventory charges on certain PPE and other related products and favorability in our core primary care business. Gross profit in fiscal 2023 was also favorably impacted by increased volumes with new and existing customers in our RxTS segment. Gross profit for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 included net cash proceeds received of $129 million and $46 million, respectively, representing our share of antitrust legal settlements. Gross profit for the year ended March 31, 2023 also included last-in, first-out (“LIFO”) inventory charges of $1 million and LIFO credits of $23 million in 2022. The LIFO charges in fiscal 2023 compared to LIFO credits in fiscal 2022 are primarily due to higher brand inflation and lower generics deflation, offset by significantly higher off patent launch activity in fiscal 2023. Refer to the “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” section included in this Financial Review for further information regarding use of the LIFO method of accounting within our U.S. Pharmaceutical business. Total Operating Expenses A summary and description of the components of our total operating expenses for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 was as follows: • Selling, distribution, general, and administrative expenses (“SDG&A”): SDG&A consists of personnel costs, transportation costs, depreciation and amortization, lease costs, professional fee expenses, administrative expenses, remeasurement charges to the lower of carrying value or fair value less costs to sell, and other general charges. • Claims and litigation charges, net: These charges and credits include adjustments for estimated probable settlements related to our controlled substance monitoring and reporting, and opioid-related claims, as well as any applicable income items or credit adjustments due to subsequent changes in estimates. Legal fees to defend claims, which are expensed as incurred, are included within SDG&A. • Restructuring, impairment, and related charges, net: Charges recorded under this component include those incurred for programs in which we change our operations, the scope of a business undertaken by our business units, or the manner in which that business is conducted, as well as long-lived asset impairments. bp - basis points 38 McKESSON CORPORATION FINANCIAL REVIEW (Continued) Total operating expenses and total operating expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased for the year ended March 31, 2023 compared to the prior year. Total operating expenses for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 were affected by the following significant items: 2023 • SDG&A reflects lower operating expenses due to the completed divestitures of our U.K. and E.U. disposal groups in April 2022 and October 2022, respectively; • SDG&A includes net credits of $66 million associated with the divestiture of our E.U. disposal group in October 2022; • Claims and litigation charges, net was not material. Refer to the Opioid-Related Litigation and Claims section of the “Trends and Uncertainties” section above for further discussion; • Restructuring, impairment, and related charges, net primarily includes charges related to Corporate expenses, net, as well as our RxTS segment. Refer to the “Restructuring Initiatives and Long-Lived Asset Impairments” section below as well as Financial Note 3, “Restructuring, Impairment, and Related Charges, Net,” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for more information; and • Total operating expenses were favorably impacted by foreign currency exchange fluctuations. 2022 • SDG&A includes charges totaling $1.2 billion to remeasure our U.K. disposal group to fair value less costs to sell. The remeasurement adjustment includes a $734 million loss related to the accumulated other comprehensive loss balances associated with the U.K. disposal group, driven by declines in the British pound sterling. Of the total charges recorded during the period, $1.1 billion are included within our International segment and $42 million are included within Corporate expenses, net; • SDG&A includes charges of $438 million to remeasure assets and liabilities of our E.U. disposal group held for sale to fair value less costs to sell and to impair certain internal-use software that will not be utilized in the future. The remeasurement adjustment includes a $151 million loss related to the accumulated other comprehensive loss balances associated with the E.U. disposal group, driven by declines in the Euro. Of the total charges recorded during the period, $383 million are included within our International segment and $55 million are included within Corporate expenses, net; • SDG&A reflects a cost reduction of $142 million related to the cessation of depreciation and amortization of long-lived assets and operating lease right-of-use assets classified as held for sale for our European divestiture disposal groups; • SDG&A includes opioid-related charges of $130 million, primarily litigation expenses; • SDG&A includes a gain of $59 million related to the sale of our Canadian health benefit claims management and plan administrative services business; • Claims and litigation charges, net includes a charge of $274 million related to our estimated liability for opioid-related claims as previously discussed in the “Trends and Uncertainties” section above; • Restructuring, impairment, and related charges, net includes charges related to Corporate expenses, net, as well as our International segment. Refer to the “Restructuring Initiatives and Long-Lived Asset Impairments” and “ Segment Operating Profit (Loss) and Corporate Expenses, Net” sections below as well as Financial Note 3, “Restructuring, Impairment, and Related Charges, Net,” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for more information; and • Total operating expenses were unfavorably impacted by foreign currency exchange fluctuations. 39 McKESSON CORPORATION FINANCIAL REVIEW (Continued) Goodwill Impairments We evaluate goodwill for impairment on an annual basis and at an interim date if indicators of potential impairment exist. During the first quarter of fiscal 2023, we voluntarily changed our annual goodwill impairment testing date from October 1 st to April 1 st to align with the change in timing of our annual long-term planning process. This change was not material to our consolidated financial statements as it did not delay, accelerate, or avoid any potential goodwill impairment charge. The annual impairment testing performed in fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022 did not indicate any impairment of goodwill. However, other risks, expenses, and future developments, such as additional government actions, increased regulatory uncertainty, and material changes in key market assumptions limit our ability to estimate projected cash flows, which could adversely affect the fair value of various reporting units in future periods, including our McKesson Canada reporting unit within the International segment, where the risk of material goodwill impairment is higher than other reporting units. Refer to “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” included in this Financial Review for further information. At March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022, the balance of goodwill in our International segment primarily relates to our McKesson Canada reporting unit. Restructuring Initiatives and Long-Lived Asset Impairments During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023, we approved a broad set of initiatives to drive operational efficiencies and increase cost optimization efforts, with the intent of simplifying our infrastructure and realizing long-term sustainable growth. These initiatives include headcount reductions and the exit or downsizing of certain facilities. We anticipate total charges of approximately $125 million across our RxTS and U.S. Pharmaceutical segments as well as Corporate, consisting primarily of employee severance and other employee-related costs, facility and other exit-related costs, as well as long-lived asset impairments. We recorded charges of $60 million for the year ended March 31, 2023 related to this program, which reflects severance and other employee-related costs within our RxTS segment as well as asset impairments and accelerated depreciation, including certain asset impairments primarily within our U.S. Pharmaceutical segment and real estate charges within Corporate. This restructuring program is anticipated to be substantially complete by the end of fiscal 2024. During the first quarter of fiscal 2022, we approved an initiative to increase operational efficiencies and flexibility by transitioning to a partial remote work model for certain employees. This initiative primarily included the rationalization of our office space in North America. Where we ceased using office space, we exited the portion of the facility no longer used. We also retained and repurposed certain other office locations. We recorded charges of $124 million for the year ended March 31, 2022 primarily related to lease right-of-use and other long-lived asset impairments, lease exit costs, and accelerated depreciation and amortization. This initiative was substantially completed in fiscal 2022 after which immaterial charges will continue to be incurred through the termination date of certain leases. In fiscal 2022, we recognized charges totaling $36 million to impair certain long-lived assets within our International segment related to our operations in Denmark and our retail pharmacy businesses in Canada. Refer to Financial Note 3 , “Restructuring, Impairment, and Related Charges, Net,” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for more information. Other Income, Net Other income, net increased for the year ended March 31, 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 primarily due to: • a gain of $142 million related to the exit of one of our investments in equity securities held within our U.S. Pharmaceutical segment; • a gain of $126 million due to the cash received for the early termination of the TRA entered into as part of the formation of the joint venture with Change, from which McKesson has now exited. This gain was recorded within Corporate expenses, net; • a gain of $97 million from the termination of certain forward starting fixed interest rate swaps within Corporate expenses, net; and • an increase of $97 million in interest income driven by higher interest rates on certain of our cash balances compared to the prior year. 40 McKESSON CORPORATION FINANCIAL REVIEW (Continued) These gains were partially offset by net losses of $36 million recognized for the year ended March 31, 2023 compared to net gains of $98 million recognized for the year ended March 31, 2022 from our equity investments held within Corporate. These amounts primarily reflect mark-to-market net gains and impairments on certain of our investments in U.S. growth stage companies in the healthcare industry and realized net gains on the exit of some of these investments as further described in Financial Note 15, “Fair Value Measurements,” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. In future periods, fair value adjustments recognized in our operating results for these types of investments may be adversely impacted by market volatility. Other income, net for the year ended March 31, 2022 also includes a gain of $42 million related to the sale of our 30% interest in our German pharmaceutical wholesale joint venture with Walgreens Boots Alliance (“WBA”). Loss on Debt Extinguishment The loss on debt extinguishment recorded for the year ended March 31, 2022 of $191 million includes premiums of $182 million as well as the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs and transaction fees incurred of $9 million, and was driven by our July 2021 tender offer to redeem a portion of our existing debt. Refer to Financial Note 11, “Debt and Financing Activities,” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for more information. Interest Expense Interest expense increased in 2023 compared to the prior year primarily due to the unfavorable impacts of higher interest rates and changes in our derivative portfolio primarily as a result of our European divestiture activities. This was partially offset by a decrease in interest expense driven by lower existing debt due to our tender offer in late July 2021. Interest expense may fluctuate based on timing, amounts, and interest rates of term debt repaid and new term debt issued, as well as amounts incurred associated with financing fees. Income Tax Expense We recorded income tax expense of $905 million and $636 million for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Our reported income tax expense rates were 19.5% and 33.0% in 2023 and 2022, respectively. Fluctuations in our reported income tax rates are primarily due to non-cash charges related to remeasuring the value of our E.U. and U.K. disposal groups held for sale to fair value less costs to sell in fiscal 2022, changes in our business mix of earnings between various taxing jurisdictions, and discrete tax benefits recognized during 2023 and 2022. Refer to Financial Note 6, “Income Taxes,” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for more information. Significant judgments and estimates are required in determining the consolidated income tax provision and evaluating income tax uncertainties. Although our major taxing jurisdictions include the U.S. and Canada, we are subject to income taxes in numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and uncertain tax liabilities reflect management’s best assessment of estimated current and future taxes to be paid. We believe that we have made adequate provision for all income tax uncertainties. Loss from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax, was $3 million and $5 million for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests primarily represents ClarusONE Sourcing Services LLP, Vantage Oncology Holdings, LLC, and the accrual of the annual recurring compensation amount of €0.83 per McKesson Europe share that McKesson was obligated to pay to the noncontrolling shareholders of McKesson Europe under the December 2014 domination and profit and loss transfer agreement (the “Domination Agreement”) through its divestiture in October 2022. For fiscal 2023, noncontrolling interests also includes the proportionate results of SCRI Oncology from its acquisition date in October 2022. Noncontrolling interests with redemption features, such as put rights, that are not solely within our control are considered redeemable noncontrolling interests. Refer to the “Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of this Financial Review and Financial Note 7, “Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests and Noncontrolling Interests,” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for additional information on changes to our redeemable and noncontrolling interests that occurred during the third quarter of fiscal 2023 and the first quarter of 2022. 41 McKESSON CORPORATION FINANCIAL REVIEW (Continued) Net Income Attributable to McKesson Corporation Net income attributable to McKesson Corporation was $3.6 billion and $1.1 billion for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Diluted earnings per common share attributable to McKesson Corporation was $25.03 and $7.23 for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Our diluted earnings per share reflects the cumulative effects of share repurchases during each period. Weighted-Average Diluted Common Shares Outstanding Diluted earnings per common share was calculated based on a weighted-average number of shares outstanding of 142.2 million and 154.1 million for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The weighted-average diluted common shares outstanding was impacted by the cumulative effect of share repurchases and exercise and settlement of share-based awards. 42 McKESSON CORPORATION FINANCIAL REVIEW (Continued) Overview of Segment Results: Segment Revenues: U.S. Pharmaceutical U.S. Pharmaceutical revenues for the year ended March 31, 2023 increased $28.5 billion or 13% compared to the prior year. Within the segment, sales to pharmacies and institutional healthcare providers increased $27.0 billion and sales to specialty practices and other increased $1.5 billion. Overall, these increases were primarily due to market growth, including growth in specialty pharmaceuticals driven by higher volumes from retail national account customers, branded pharmaceutical price increases, and higher volumes from other existing customers. These increases were partially offset by branded to generic drug conversions and decreased distribution of COVID-19 vaccines. Prescription Technology Solutions RxTS revenues for the year ended March 31, 2023 increased $523 million or 14% compared to the prior year due to increased volume with new and existing customers primarily in our third-party logistics and wholesale distribution services as well as higher technology service revenues. Medical-Surgical Solutions Medical-Surgical Solutions revenues for the year ended March 31, 2023 decreased $498 million or 4% compared to the prior year. Within the segment, sales to primary care customers decreased $307 million driven by lower sales of COVID-19 tests, partially offset by underlying core business growth including higher sales of flu test kits. Sales to extended care customers increased $7 million. Other sales declined $198 million driven by lower contribution from the kitting and distribution of ancillary supplies used to administer COVID-19 vaccines. International International revenues for the year ended March 31, 2023 decreased $15.7 billion or 43% compared to the prior year which included $1.9 billion unfavorable effects of foreign currency exchange fluctuations. Within the segment, sales in Europe declined by $14.8 billion largely due to the completed divestitures of our U.K. and E.U. disposal groups, and Austrian business. This was partially offset by increased sales in Canada of $1.0 billion largely driven by higher pharmaceutical distribution volumes. 43 McKESSON CORPORATION FINANCIAL REVIEW (Continued) Segment Operating Profit (Loss) and Corporate Expenses, Net: bp - basis points (1) Segment operating profit (loss) includes gross profit, net of total operating expenses, as well as other income (expense), net, for our reportable segments. (2) Operating profit for our U.S. Pharmaceutical segment includes the following: • cash receipts for our share of antitrust legal settlements of $129 million and $46 million for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively; • charges of $1 million and credits of $23 million for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively; related to the LIFO method of accounting for inventories; and • a gain of $142 million for the year ended March 31, 2023 related to the exit of one of our investments in equity securities. (3) Operating profit for our RxTS segment for the year ended March 31, 2023 includes restructuring charges of $43 million primarily for severance and employee-related costs, as well as asset impairments and accelerated depreciation. (4) Operating profit for our Medical-Surgical Solutions segment for the year ended March 31, 2022 includes charges totaling $164 million on certain PPE and other related products due to inventory impairments and excess inventory. (5) Operating profit (loss) for our International segment includes the following: • charges of $1.1 billion for the year ended March 31, 2022 to remeasure our U.K. disposal group held for sale to fair value less costs to sell; • charges of $240 million and $383 million for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, to remeasure our E.U. disposal group held for sale to fair value less costs to sell and, in fiscal 2022, to impair certain internal-use software that will not be utilized in the future; • a gain of $59 million for the year ended March 31, 2022 related to the sale of our Canadian health benefit claims management and plan administrative services business; and • a gain of $42 million for the year ended March 31, 2022 related to the sale to WBA of our 30% interest in our German pharmaceutical wholesale joint venture. (6) Corporate expenses, net includes the following: • credits of $306 million and charges of $55 million for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, primarily related to the effect of accumulated other comprehensive loss components from our E.U. disposal group; • a gain of $126 million for the year ended March 31, 2023 related to the cash payment received for the early termination of our TRA with Change; • a gain of $97 million for the year ended March 31, 2023 related to the termination of certain forward starting fixed interest rate swaps; 44 McKESSON CORPORATION FINANCIAL REVIEW (Continued) • restructuring charges of $83 million and $100 million for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, primarily due to costs for business transformation and optimization efforts related to the Company’s technology organization and the transition to a partial remote work model for certain employees. • net losses of $36 million and net gains of $98 million for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, associated with certain of our equity investments; • charges of $42 million for the year ended March 31, 2022 primarily related to the effect of accumulated other comprehensive loss components from our U.K. disposal group; • charges of $274 million for the year ended March 31, 2022 related to our estimated liability for opioid-related claims; • charges of $130 million for the year ended March 31, 2022 of opioid-related costs, primarily litigation expenses; and (7) Loss on debt extinguishment for the year ended March 31, 2022 consists of a charge of $191 million on debt extinguishment related to our July 2021 tender offer to redeem a portion of our existing debt. U.S. Pharmaceutical Operating profit increased for the year ended March 31, 2023 compared to the prior year primarily due to growth in specialty pharmaceuticals, increased contributions from our generics programs, a gain recognized from the exit of one of our investments in equity securities in July 2022, and higher cash proceeds received representing our share of antitrust legal settlements. This was partially offset by an increase in operating expenses to support higher volumes, and a decrease in the contribution from our COVID-19 vaccine distribution program. Prescription Technology Solutions Operating profit increased for the year ended March 31, 2023 compared to the prior year primarily driven by increased volumes with new and existing customers due to growth in our access, affordability, and adherence solutions. Medical-Surgical Solutions Operating profit increased for the year ended March 31, 2023 compared to the prior year primarily due to favorability in our core primary care business, including favorable illness season testing and sourcing activities, and prior year inventory charges on certain PPE and other related products, partially offset by lower sales of COVID-19 tests and a lower contribution from kitting and distribution of ancillary supplies for COVID-19 vaccines. International Operating profit for this segment for the year ended March 31, 2023 compared to an operating loss for the prior year was primarily a result of higher remeasurement charges recorded in the prior year related to our divestitures of the U.K. and E.U. disposal groups and our Austrian business, as well as lower restructuring expenses for optimization programs in Canada. This was partially offset by a gain recognized in the prior year from the sale of our Canadian health benefit claims management and plan administrative services business. Corporate Corporate expenses, net decreased for the year ended March 31, 2023 compared to the prior year primarily due to: • year-over-year favorability from lower fair value remeasurement adjustments of our E.U. and U.K. disposal groups compared to fiscal 2022; • lower charges related to our estimated liability for opioid-related claims; • a gain related to the cash payment received for the early termination of our TRA with Change; • a gain related to the termination of certain forward starting fixed interest rate swaps; • a decrease in opioid-related costs, primarily litigation expenses; • prior year restructuring charges for the transition to a partial remote work model for certain employees; and • a favorable impact to interest income from higher interest rates on certain of our cash balances compared to the prior year period. These were partially offset by net losses from our equity investments compared to net gains in the prior year period. 45 McKESSON CORPORATION FINANCIAL REVIEW (Continued) FOREIGN OPERATIONS Our foreign operations represented approximately 7% and 14% of our consolidated revenues in fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022, respectively. Foreign operations are subject to certain risks, including currency fluctuations. Refer to Item 1A - Risk Factors in Part I of this Annual Report for a risk factor related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We monitor our operations and adopt strategies responsive to changes in the economic and political environment in each of the countries in which we operate. We conduct our business worldwide in local currencies, including the Canadian dollar and, more significantly prior to our European divestiture activities discussed above, Euro and British pound sterling. As a result, the comparability of our results reported in U.S. dollars can be affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. In discussing our operating results, we may use the term “foreign currency exchange fluctuations,” which refers to the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates used to convert the local currency results of our operations in foreign countries where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar. We present this information to provide a framework for assessing how our business performed excluding the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. In computing the foreign currency exchange fluctuations, we translate our current year results of our operations in foreign countries recorded in local currencies into U.S. dollars by applying their respective average foreign currency exchange rates of the corresponding prior year periods, and we subsequently compare those results to the previously reported results of the comparable prior year periods reported in U.S. dollars. In July 2021, we announced our intention to exit our businesses in Europe. In fiscal 2023, we completed the previously announced sale of our E.U. and U.K. disposal groups and in fiscal 2022 we completed the previously announced sale of our Austrian business. Refer to Financial Note 2, “Business Acquisitions and Divestitures,” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for more information on these European divestitures. Additional information regarding our foreign operations is also included in Financial Note 20, “Segments of Business,” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Refer to Financial Note 2, “Business Acquisitions and Divestitures,” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for additional information. FISCAL 2024 OUTLOOK Information regarding the Company’s fiscal 2024 outlook is contained in the release of our fourth quarter fiscal 2023 financial results included as an exhibit to our Form 8-K furnished to the SEC on May 8, 2023, which is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. That Form 8-K should be read in conjunction with the forward-looking statements in the "Trends and Uncertainties" section of this Financial Review, as well as the cautionary statements in Item 1 - Business - Forward-Looking Statements, and Item 1A - Risk Factors, in Part I of this Annual Report. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if the estimate requires us to make assumptions about matters based upon past experience and management’s judgment that were uncertain at the time the accounting estimate was made and if different estimates that we reasonably could have used in the current period, or changes in the accounting estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, could have a material impact on our financial condition or results from operations. Below are the estimates that we believe are critical to the understanding of our operating results and financial condition. Other accounting policies are described in Financial Note 1, “Significant Accounting Policies,” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these estimates. 46 McKESSON CORPORATION FINANCIAL REVIEW (Continued) Allowances for Credit Losses: Our receivables primarily consist of short-term trade accounts receivable from customers that result from the sale of goods and services. We also provide customer financing arrangements to customers who purchase our products and services. Customer financing primarily relates to guarantees provided to our customers, or their creditors, regarding the repurchase of inventories. We also provide financing to certain customers related to the purchase of pharmacies, which serve as collateral for the loans. We estimate the receivables for which we do not expect full collection based on historical collection rates and specific knowledge regarding the current creditworthiness of our customers and record an allowance in our consolidated financial statements for these amounts. The Company considers historical credit losses, the current economic environment, customer credit ratings, collections on past due amounts, legal disputes, and bankruptcies, as well as reasonable and supportable forecasts to develop its allowance for credit losses. Management reviews these factors quarterly to determine if any adjustments are needed to the allowance. Sales to the Company’s ten largest customers, including group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”), accounted for approximately 68% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2023 and comprised approximately 42% of total trade accounts receivable at March 31, 2023. Sales to our largest customer, CVS Health Corporation (“CVS”), accounted for approximately 27% of our total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2023 and comprised approximately 21% of total trade accounts receivable at March 31, 2023. As a result, our sales and credit concentration is significant. We also have agreements with GPOs, each of which functions as a purchasing agent on behalf of member hospitals, pharmacies and other healthcare providers, as well as with government entities and agencies. The accounts receivable balances are with individual members of the GPOs, and therefore no significant concentration of credit risk exists. A material default in payment, a material reduction in purchases from these or any other large customers, or the loss of a large customer or GPO could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. Reserve methodologies are assessed annually based on historical losses and economic, business, and market trends. In addition, reserves are reviewed quarterly and updated if unusual circumstances or trends are present. We believe the reserves maintained and expenses recorded in fiscal 2023 are appropriate and consistent in the context of historical methodologies employed, as well as assessment of trends currently available. At March 31, 2023, trade and notes receivables were $17.5 billion prior to allowances of $114 million. Our provision for bad debts was $45 million, $29 million, and $4 million in fiscal 2023, fiscal 2022, and fiscal 2021, respectively. At March 31, 2023 and 2022, the allowance as a percentage of trade and notes receivables was 0.7% and 0.6%, respectively. An increase or decrease of a hypothetical 0.1% in the fiscal 2023 allowance as a percentage of trade and notes receivables would result in an increase or decrease in the provision for bad debts of approximately $17 million. The selected 0.1% hypothetical change does not reflect what could be considered the best or worst-case scenarios. Additional information concerning our allowances for credit losses may be found in Schedule II included in this Annual Report. Inventories: Inventories consist of merchandise held for resale. We report inventories at the lower of cost or net realizable value, except for inventories determined using the LIFO method which are valued at the lower of LIFO cost or market. LIFO method presumes that the most recent inventory purchases are the first items sold and the inventory cost under LIFO approximates market. The majority of the cost of domestic inventories is determined using the LIFO method. The majority of the cost of inventories held in foreign and certain domestic locations is based on the first-in, first-out (“FIFO”) method and weighted-average purchase prices. Rebates, cash discounts, and other incentives received from vendors relating to the purchase or distribution of inventory are considered product discounts and are accounted for as a reduction in the cost of inventory and are recognized when the inventory is sold. In determining whether an inventory valuation allowance is required, we consider various factors including estimated quantities of slow-moving inventory by reviewing on-hand quantities, outstanding purchase obligations, and forecasted sales. Shifts in market trends and conditions, changes in customer preferences due to the introduction of generic drugs or new pharmaceutical products, or the loss of one or more significant customers are factors that could affect the value of our inventories. We write down inventories which are considered excess and obsolete as a result of these reviews. These factors could make our estimates of inventory valuation differ from actual results. 47 McKESSON CORPORATION FINANCIAL REVIEW (Continued) At March 31, 2023 and 2022, total inventories, net were $19.7 billion and $18.7 billion, respectively, in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The LIFO method was used to value approximately 64% and 63% of our inventories at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. If we had used the moving average method of inventory valuation, inventories would have been approximately $384 million and $383 million higher than the amounts reported at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. These amounts are equivalent to our LIFO reserves. A LIFO charge is recognized when the net effect of price increases on pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical products held in inventory exceeds the impact of price declines, including the effect of branded pharmaceutical products that have lost market exclusivity. A LIFO credit is recognized when the net effect of price declines exceeds the impact of price increases on pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical products held in inventory. We recognized a LIFO charge of $1 million in fiscal 2023 and LIFO credits of $23 million and $38 million in fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021, respectively, all within “Cost of Sales” in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. The LIFO charge in fiscal 2023 compared to LIFO credits in fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021 are primarily due to higher brand inflation and lower generics deflation, offset by significantly higher off patent launch activity in fiscal 2023. Our LIFO valuation amount includes both pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical products. We believe that the moving average inventory costing method provides a reasonable estimation of the current cost of replacing inventory (i.e., “market”). As such, our LIFO inventory is valued at the lower of LIFO or market. As of March 31, 2023 and 2022, inventories at LIFO did not exceed market. Business Combinations: We account for business combinations using the acquisition method of accounting whereby the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired business, including contingent consideration, as well as any noncontrolling interest in the acquired business, are recorded at their estimated fair values as of the date that we obtain control of the acquired business. Any purchase consideration in excess of the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Acquisition-related expenses and related restructuring costs are expensed as incurred. Several valuation methods may be used to determine the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. For intangible assets, we typically use a variation of the income approach, whereby a forecast of future cash flows attributable to the asset is discounted to present value using a risk-adjusted discount rate. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in the income approach include the amount and timing of projected future cash flows, the discount rate selected to measure the risks inherent in the future cash flows, and the assessment of the asset’s expected useful life. Refer to Financial Note 2, “Business Acquisitions and Divestitures,” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for additional information regarding our acquisitions. Certain business combinations involve the potential for future payments of consideration that is contingent upon the achievement of performance milestones or other agreed-upon events. The liability for the contingent consideration is measured at its fair value as of the acquisition date using unobservable inputs. These inputs include the estimated amount and timing of projected operational and financial information, the probability of achievement of performance milestones or other agreed-upon events, and the risk-adjusted discount rate used to calculate the present value of the probability-weighted projected financial information . Contingent liabilities are remeasured to fair value at each reporting date until the liability is resolved with changes in fair value being recognized within “Selling, distribution, general, and administrative expenses” in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Changes in any of the inputs may result in a significant adjustment to the fair value. Goodwill and Long-Lived Assets: Goodwill As a result of acquiring businesses, we have $9.9 billion and $9.5 billion of goodwill at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, and $2.3 billion and $2.1 billion of intangible assets, net at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. During the first quarter of fiscal 2023, we voluntarily changed our annual goodwill impairment testing date from October 1 st to April 1 st to align with a change in the timing of our annual long-term planning process. This change was not material to our consolidated financial statements as it did not delay, accelerate, or avoid any potential goodwill impairment charge. We perform an impairment test on goodwill balances annually in the first fiscal quarter and more frequently if indicators for potential impairment exist. Indicators that are considered include significant declines in performance relative to expected operating results, significant changes in the use of the assets, significant negative industry or economic trends, or a significant decline in the Company’s stock price and/or market capitalization for a sustained period of time. 48 McKESSON CORPORATION FINANCIAL REVIEW (Continued) Goodwill impairment testing is conducted at the reporting unit level, which is generally defined as an operating segment or a component, one level below our operating segments, for which discrete financial information is available and where segment management regularly reviews the operating results of that reporting unit. We apply the goodwill impairment test by comparing the estimated fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying value and an impairment charge is recorded equal to the amount of excess carrying value above the estimated fair value, if any, but not to exceed the amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. To estimate the fair value of our reporting units, we generally use a combination of the market approach and the income approach. Under the market approach, we estimate fair value by comparing the business to similar businesses, or guideline companies whose securities are actively traded in public markets. Under the income approach, we use a discounted cash flow model in which cash flows anticipated over several periods, plus a terminal value at the end of that time horizon, are discounted to their present value using an appropriate rate that is commensurate with the risk inherent within the reporting unit. In addition, we compare the aggregate of the reporting units’ fair values to our market capitalization as further corroboration of the reasonableness of our concluded fair values. Estimates of fair value result from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and rely heavily on estimates and assumptions at a point in time. Judgments made in determining an estimate of fair value may materially impact our results of operations. The valuations are based on information available as of the impairment testing date and are based on expectations and assumptions that have been deemed reasonable by management. Any material changes in key assumptions, including failure to meet business plans, negative changes in government reimbursement rates, deterioration in the U.S. and global financial markets, an increase in interest rates, or an increase in the cost of equity financing by market participants within the industry, or other unanticipated events and circumstances may decrease the projected cash flows or increase the discount rates and could potentially result in an impairment charge. Under the market approach, significant estimates and assumptions also include the selection of appropriate guideline public companies and the determination of appropriate valuation multiples to apply to the reporting unit. Under the income approach, significant estimates and assumptions also include the determination of discount rates. The discount rates represent the weighted-average cost of capital measuring the reporting unit’s cost of debt and equity financing, which are weighted by the percentage of debt and percentage of equity in a company’s target capital structure. Included in the estimate of the weighted-average cost of capital is the assumption of an unsystematic risk premium to address incremental uncertainty related to the reporting units’ future cash flow projections. The annual impairment testing performed for fiscal 2023, fiscal 2022, and fiscal 2021 did not indicate any impairment of goodwill. The segment change in the second quarter of fiscal 2021 prompted changes in multiple reporting units across the Company and as a result, goodwill included in impacted reporting units was reallocated using a relative fair value approach and assessed for impairment both before and after the reallocation. We recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $69 million in fiscal 2021 as the estimated fair value of the Europe Retail Pharmacy reporting unit was lower than its reassigned carrying value based on changes in the composition of the Europe Retail Pharmacy reporting unit within the International segment. At March 31, 2023 and 2022, the balance of goodwill in the International segment primarily relates to our McKesson Canada reporting unit. The estimated fair value of our McKesson Canada reporting unit in our International segment exceeded the carrying value of the reporting unit by approximately 30% in fiscal 2023. The goodwill balance of this reporting unit was $1.4 billion at March 31, 2023, or approximately 14% of the consolidated goodwill balance. A decline in estimated future cash flows in excess of approximately 22% for McKesson Canada or an increase in the discount rate in excess of approximately 2% could result in an indication of goodwill impairment for this reporting unit in future reporting periods under the income approach. Other risks, expenses, and future developments, such as additional government actions, increased regulatory uncertainty, and material changes in key market assumptions may require us to further revise the projected cash flows, which could adversely affect the fair value of our other reporting units in future periods. Refer to Financial Note 10, “Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net,” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for additional information. 49 McKESSON CORPORATION FINANCIAL REVIEW (Continued) Long-Lived Assets Currently, all of our intangible and other long-lived assets are amortized or depreciated based on the pattern of their economic consumption or a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, ranging from one to 25 years. We review intangible and other long-lived assets for impairment at an asset group level whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. Determination of recoverability of intangible and other long-lived assets is based on the lowest level of identifiable estimated future undiscounted cash flows resulting from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition. Measurement of any impairment loss is based on the excess of the carrying value of the asset group over its fair value. Assumptions and estimates about future values and the remaining useful lives of our purchased intangible assets are complex and subjective. They can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors such as industry and economic trends, and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy and our internal forecasts. Our ongoing consideration of all the factors described previously could result in further impairment charges in the future, which could adversely affect our net income. Refer to Financial Note 3, “Restructuring, Impairment, and Related Charges, Net,” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for additional information on our long-lived asset impairments. Long-lived assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell and are not depreciated or amortized. Fair value is determined based on the total consideration expected to be received by the Company. The fair value of a disposal group, less any costs to sell, is assessed each reporting period it remains classified as held for sale and any remeasurement to the lower of carrying value or fair value less costs to sell is reported as an adjustment to the carrying value of the disposal group. When the net realizable value of a disposal group increases during a period, a gain can be recognized to the extent that it does not increase the value of the disposal group beyond its original carrying value when the disposal group was reclassified as held for sale. Restructuring Charges: We have certain restructuring reserves which require significant estimates related to the timing and amount of future employee severance and other exit-related costs to be incurred when the restructuring actions take place. We generally recognize employee severance costs when payments are probable and amounts are estimable. Costs related to contracts without future benefit or contract termination are recognized at the earlier of the contract termination or the cease-use dates. Other exit-related costs are recognized as incurred. In connection with these restructuring actions, we also assess the recoverability of long-lived assets used in the business, and as a result, we may recognize accelerated depreciation and amortization reflecting shortened useful lives of the underlying assets. Income Taxes: Our income tax expense and deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect management’s best assessment of estimated current and future taxes to be paid. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgments and estimates are required in determining the consolidated income tax provision and in evaluating income tax uncertainties, including those used to conclude on the tax-free nature of the separation of the Change Healthcare JV and the unrecognized tax position related to opioid-related litigation and claims, and may differ from the actual amounts of tax benefit recognized. We review our tax positions at the end of each quarter and adjust the balances as new information becomes available. Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets, we consider all available positive and negative evidence including our past operating results, the existence of cumulative net operating losses in the most recent years, and our forecast of future taxable income. In estimating future taxable income, we develop assumptions including the amount of future federal, state, and foreign pre-tax operating income, the reversal of temporary differences, and the implementation of feasible and prudent tax planning strategies. These assumptions require significant judgment about the forecasts of future taxable income and are consistent with the plans and estimates we use to manage the underlying businesses. Changes in tax laws and rates could also affect recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities in the future. Should tax laws change, our tax expense and cash flows could be materially impacted. In addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities includes estimates for uncertainties in the application of complex new tax regulations across multiple global jurisdictions where we conduct our operations. 50 McKESSON CORPORATION FINANCIAL REVIEW (Continued) We recognize liabilities for tax and related interest for issues in the U.S. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and related interest will be due. If our current estimate of tax and interest liabilities is less than the ultimate settlement, an additional charge to income tax expense may result. If our current estimate of tax and interest liabilities is more than the ultimate settlement, a reduction to income tax expense may be recognized. Refer to Financial Note 6, “Income Taxes,” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for additional information on income tax matters. Loss Contingencies: We are subject to various claims, including claims with customers and vendors, pending and potential legal actions for damages, investigations relating to laws and regulations and other matters arising out of the normal conduct of our business. When a loss is considered probable and reasonably estimable, we record a liability in the amount of our best estimate for the ultimate loss. However, the likelihood of a loss with respect to a particular contingency is often difficult to predict, and determining a meaningful estimate of the loss or a range of loss may not be practicable based on the information available and the potential effect of future events and decisions by third parties that will determine the ultimate resolution of the contingency. Moreover, it is not uncommon for such matters to be resolved over many years, during which time relevant developments and new information must be reevaluated at least quarterly to determine both the likelihood of potential loss and whether it is possible to reasonably estimate a range of possible loss. When a material loss is reasonably possible or probable but a reasonable estimate cannot be made, disclosure of the proceeding is provided. Legal fees are recognized as incurred when the legal services are provided. We review all contingencies at least quarterly to determine whether the likelihood of loss has changed and to assess whether a reasonable estimate of the potential loss or range of the loss can be made. As discussed above, development of a meaningful estimate of loss or a range of potential loss is complex when the outcome is directly dependent on future negotiations with or decisions by third parties, such as regulatory agencies, the court system, and other interested parties. In conjunction with the preparation of the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report, we considered matters related to ongoing controlled substances claims to which we are a party. At March 31, 2023, our estimated accrued liability for the opioid-related claims of governmental entities was $7.2 billion. Because of the many uncertainties associated with the remaining opioid-related litigation matters, we are not able to reasonably estimate the upper or lower ends of the range of ultimate possible losses for all opioid-related litigation matters. We are not able to predict the outcome in these matters, and an adverse judgment or negotiated resolution in any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows or liquidity. Refer to the “Opioid-Related Litigation and Claims” section of the “Trends and Uncertainties” section of this Financial Review and Financial Note 17, “Commitments and Contingent Liabilities,” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for additional information. FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY, AND CAPITAL RESOURCES We expect our available cash generated from operations and our short-term investment portfolio, together with our existing sources of liquidity through access to the debt market generally and from our credit facilities and commercial paper program, will be sufficient to fund our short-term and long-term capital expenditures, working capital, and other cash requirements. We remain well-capitalized with access to liquidity from our $4.0 billion 2022 Credit Facility. At March 31, 2023, we were in compliance with all debt covenants, and believe we have the ability to continue to meet our debt covenants in the future. 51 McKESSON CORPORATION FINANCIAL REVIEW (Continued) The following table summarizes the net change in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash for the periods shown: (1) The fiscal 2023 change reflects a reversal of cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash previously classified within assets held for sale at March 31, 2022 as part of the U.K. disposal group and is offset by cash outflows primarily related to the settlement of liabilities which is reflected in operating activities. Refer to Financial Note 2, “Business Acquisitions and Divestitures,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for further information. Operating Activities Operating activities provided cash of $5.2 billion and $4.4 billion for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Cash flows from operations can be significantly impacted by factors such as the timing of receipts from customers, inventory receipts, and payments to vendors. Additionally, working capital is primarily a function of sales and purchase volumes, inventory requirements, and vendor payment terms. Operating activities for the year ended March 31, 2023 were affected by net income of $3.7 billion adjusted for non-cash items, and an increase in drafts and accounts payable of $3.8 billion offset by increases in inventories and receivables of $1.3 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively, were primarily driven by higher revenues and timing. Our litigation liabilities decreased by $1.1 billion due to payments made during fiscal 2023 associated with the Settlement and separate settlement agreements of opioid-related claims of participating states, subdivisions, and Native American tribes. Other non-cash items within operating activities for the year ended March 31, 2023 includes stock-based compensation of $162 million. Operating activities for the year ended March 31, 2022 were affected by net income adjusted for non-cash items, including the losses on our European businesses held for sale and our classifications of receivables, drafts and accounts payables, and inventories as held for sale. Refer to Financial Note 2, “Business Acquisitions and Divestitures,” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for further information. Excluding the aforementioned classifications, operating activities for the year ended March 31, 2022 were affected by increases in inventory of $1.2 billion and drafts and accounts payable of $2.8 billion due to timing of purchases, and an increase in receivables of $1.8 billion resulting from timing of collections and higher revenues. Other non-cash items within operating activities for the year ended March 31, 2022 includes an adjustment to net income of $191 million related to loss on debt extinguishment, non-cash inventory charges totaling $164 million on certain PPE and other related products in our Medical-Surgical Solutions segment, and stock-based compensation of $161 million. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $542 million and $89 million for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Investing activities for the year ended March 31, 2023 includes $867 million of net cash payments for acquisitions, including $600 million for our acquisition of RxSS and $173 million for our formation of SCRI Oncology with HCA. Investing activities for the year ended March 31, 2023 also includes $390 million and $168 million in capital expenditures for property, plant, and equipment and capitalized software, respectively, and reflects proceeds from sales of businesses and investments of $1.1 billion, including cash proceeds, net of cash divested, of $573 million from the completed divestiture of our E.U. disposal group, $202 million of net cash from the completed divestiture of our U.K. disposal group, and $179 million of cash from the exit of one of our investments in equity securities in July 2022. 52 McKESSON CORPORATION FINANCIAL REVIEW (Continued) Investing activities for the year ended March 31, 2022 includes $388 million and $147 million in capital expenditures for property, plant, and equipment and capitalized software, respectively. Investing activities for the year ended March 31, 2022 also includes net cash proceeds of $578 million from sales of businesses and investments, primarily driven by our European divestiture activities described above, including the disposal of our Austria business, and the sale of certain of our equity investments. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $4.4 billion and $6.3 billion for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Financing activities for the year ended March 31, 2023 includes $3.6 billion of cash paid for share repurchases and $292 million of cash paid for dividends. Financing activities also includes cash receipts of $8.5 billion and payments of $8.5 billion for short-term borrowings of commercial paper in fiscal 2023. In November 2022, we entered into the 2022 Term Loan Credit Facility which provided an unsecured term loan facility of up to $500 million, which we drew upon in full in December 2022 and which we subsequently repaid in February 2023. The proceeds of this loan were used for general corporate purposes. In February 2023, we completed a public offering of the 5.25% Notes with net proceeds of $497 million, which were used to repay existing debt. In December 2022, we retired our $400 million outstanding principal amount of the 2.70% Notes and on March 15, 2023, we retired our $360 million outstanding principal amount of the 2.85% Notes, both upon maturity using cash on hand. Cash used for other financing activities generally includes shares surrendered for tax withholding and payments to noncontrolling interests. Financing activities for the year ended March 31, 2022 includes cash receipts of $11.2 billion and payments of $11.2 billion from short-term borrowings of commercial paper. Financing activities for the year ended March 31, 2022 includes a cash tender offer of $1.1 billion to redeem certain notes with a principal amount of $922 million and the redemption of our 0.63% Euro-denominated notes with a principal amount of €600 million (or, approximately $709 million) prior to the maturity date of August 17, 2021 using cash on hand. This resulted in total repayments of long-term debt during the year ended March 31, 2022 of $1.8 billion, including $184 million of cash paid for premiums and transaction fees. This was partially offset by the issuance of long-term debt in August 2021 pursuant to a public offering of 1.30% Notes due 2026 for net proceeds of $498 million, which was utilized for general corporate purposes. Financing activities for the year ended March 31, 2022 also includes $3.5 billion of cash paid for share repurchases and $277 million of cash paid for dividends. Additionally, financing activities for the year ended March 31, 2022 includes payments of $1.0 billion to purchase shares of McKesson Europe through exercises of a put right option by noncontrolling shareholders. Cash used for other financing activities for the year ended March 31, 2022 includes payments to noncontrolling interests, and funds temporarily held on behalf of unaffiliated medical practice groups. Share Repurchase Plans The Board has authorized the repurchase of McKesson’s common stock from time to time in open market transactions, privately negotiated transactions, accelerated share repurchase (“ASR”) programs, or by combinations of such methods, any of which may use pre-arranged trading plans that are designed to meet the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The timing of any repurchases and the actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors, including our stock price, corporate and regulatory requirements, tax implications, restrictions under our debt obligations, and other market and economic conditions. During the last two years, our share repurchases were transacted through both open market transactions and ASR programs with third-party financial institutions. The ASR programs discussed below were designed to comply with Rule 10b5-1(c). 53 McKESSON CORPORATION FINANCIAL REVIEW (Continued) Information regarding the share repurchase activity over the last two fiscal years was as follows: (1) This table does not include the value of equity awards surrendered to satisfy tax withholding obligations or forfeitures of equity awards. (2) The number of shares purchased reflects rounding adjustments. (3) In February 2022, we entered into an ASR program with a third-party financial institution to repurchase $1.5 billion of the Company’s common stock. The total number of shares repurchased under this ASR program was 5.1 million shares at an average price per share of $295.16. We received 4.8 million shares as the initial share settlement in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022 based on an initial share purchase price, and in May 2022, we received an additional 0.3 million shares upon the completion of this ASR program. (4) Of the total dollar value, $27 million was accrued within “Other accrued liabilities” in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2023 for share repurchases that were executed in late March 2023 and settled in early April 2023. We believe that our future operating cash flow, financial assets, and current access to capital and credit markets, including our existing credit facilities, will give us the ability to meet our financing needs for the foreseeable future. However, there can be no assurance that an increase in volatility or disruption in the global capital and credit markets will not impair our liquidity or increase our costs of borrowing. 54 McKESSON CORPORATION FINANCIAL REVIEW (Continued) Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources (1) Based on year-end balances and sales or cost of sales for the last 90 days of the year. (2) This ratio describes the relationship and changes within our capital resources, and is computed as the sum of total debt divided by the sum of total debt and McKesson stockholders’ deficit, which excludes noncontrolling interests and accumulated other comprehensive loss. Cash equivalents, which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash, are carried at fair value. Cash equivalents are primarily invested in AAA-rated U.S. government money market funds, short-term deposits with financial institutions, and short-term commercial papers issued by non-financial institutions. Deposits with financial institutions are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars and the functional currencies of our foreign subsidiaries, including Canadian dollars, Euro, and British pounds sterling. Deposits could exceed the amounts insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in the U.S. and similar deposit insurance programs in other jurisdictions. We mitigate the risk of our short-term investment portfolio by depositing funds with reputable financial institutions and monitoring risk profiles and investment strategies of money market funds. Our cash and cash equivalents balance as of March 31, 2023 and 2022 included approximately $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion of cash held by our subsidiaries outside of the U.S., respectively. Our primary intent is to utilize this cash for foreign operations for an indefinite period of time. Although the vast majority of cash held outside the U.S. is available for repatriation, doing so could subject us to foreign withholding taxes and state income taxes. We may remit foreign earnings to the U.S. to the extent it is tax efficient to do so. We do not expect the tax impact from remitting these earnings to be material. Following enactment of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the repatriation of cash to the U.S. is generally no longer taxable for federal income tax purposes. Working capital primarily includes cash and cash equivalents, receivables, and inventories, net of drafts and accounts payable, short-term borrowings, current portion of long-term debt, and other accrued liabilities. Working capital also includes net assets and liabilities classified as held for sale which have decreased in fiscal 2023 as a result of the divestiture of our E.U. and U.K. disposal groups. Our businesses require substantial investments in working capital that are susceptible to large variations during the year as a result of inventory purchase patterns and seasonal demands. Inventory purchase activity is a function of sales activity and other requirements. Consolidated working capital decreased at March 31, 2023 compared to the prior year primarily due to an increase in drafts and accounts payable, partially offset by an increase in cash and cash equivalents, inventory and receivables, driven by higher revenues and timing. Our debt to capital ratio increased for the year ended March 31, 2023 primarily due to share repurchases and net repayments of long-term debt, partially offset by net income attributable to McKesson for the year. In July 2022, we raised our quarterly dividend from $0.47 to $0.54 per common share for dividends declared on or after such date by the Board. Dividends were $2.09 per share in fiscal 2023 and $1.83 per share in fiscal 2022. We anticipate that we will continue to pay quarterly cash dividends in the future. However, the payment and amount of future dividends remain within the discretion of the Board and will depend upon our future earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, and other factors. In fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022, we paid total cash dividends of $292 million and $277 million, respectively. 55 McKESSON CORPORATION FINANCIAL REVIEW (Continued) Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests Our previously recognized redeemable noncontrolling interests primarily related to our consolidated subsidiary, McKesson Europe. Under the Domination Agreement, the noncontrolling shareholders of McKesson Europe had a right to put (“Put Right”) their shares at €22.99 per share, increased annually for interest in the amount of five percentage points above a base rate published semi-annually by the German Bundesbank, less any compensation amount or guaranteed dividend already paid by McKesson. During fiscal 2022, we paid $1.0 billion to purchase 34.5 million shares of McKesson Europe through exercises of the Put Right by the noncontrolling shareholders, which reduced the balance of our redeemable noncontrolling interests. The Put Right expired on June 15, 2021, at which point the remaining shares owned by the minority shareholders, valued at $287 million, were transferred from redeemable noncontrolling interests to noncontrolling interests and as a result, we no longer have redeemable noncontrolling interests presented in our consolidated balance sheets at March 31, 2023 or 2022. Our noncontrolling interest in McKesson Europe was included in the sale of our E.U. disposal group in October 2022, as discussed in more detail in Financial Note 2, “Business Acquisitions and Divestitures.” Additionally, prior to the sale of our E.U. disposal group in October 2022, we were obligated to pay an annual recurring compensation of €0.83 per McKesson Europe share (the “Compensation Amount”) to the noncontrolling shareholders of McKesson Europe under the Domination Agreement. The Compensation Amount was recognized ratably during the applicable annual period through the October 31, 2022 divestiture. The Domination Agreement did not expire, but it may be terminated at the end of any fiscal year by giving at least six months’ advance notice. Refer to Financial Note 7, “Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests and Noncontrolling Interests,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for additional information regarding redeemable noncontrolling interests. Material Cash Requirements: The table and information below presents our significant financial obligations and commitments as of March 31, 2023: (1) Represents maturities of the Company’s long-term obligations, including finance lease obligations. Refer to Financial Note 11, “Debt and Financing Activities,” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for more information. (2) Represents undiscounted minimum operating lease obligations under non-cancelable operating leases having an initial remaining term over one year and is not adjusted for imputed interest. Refer to Financial Note 9, “Leases,” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for more information. (3) Includes estimated benefit payments for our unfunded benefit plans and minimum funding requirements for our pension plans as well as the contingent consideration liability related to our acquisition of RxSS in November 2022. (4) Represents interest that will become due on our fixed rate long-term debt obligations. (5) Primarily relates to the expected purchase of goods and services, including inventory and capital commitments, from vendors in the normal course of business. (6) Includes agreements under which we have guaranteed the repurchase of our customers’ inventory and our customers’ debt in the event these customers are unable to meet their obligations to those financial institutions. Refer to Financial Note 16, “Financial Guarantees and Warranties,” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for more information. 56 McKESSON CORPORATION FINANCIAL REVIEW (Concluded) The material cash requirements table above excludes the following obligations: At March 31, 2023, the Company had accrued liabilities of $7.2 billion related to the settlement of opioid-related litigation claims with U.S. governmental entities, including Native American tribes, as described in the “Trends and Uncertainties” section of this Financial Review and Financial Note 17, “Commitments and Contingent Liabilities,” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. The majority of this amount relates to a global settlement payable in annual installments through 2038 pursuant to the schedule set forth in the agreement. As of March 31, 2023, $548 million is estimated to be paid within the next twelve months. At March 31, 2023, the liability recorded for uncertain tax positions, excluding associated interest and penalties, was approximately $974 million. The ultimate amount and timing of any related future cash settlements cannot be predicted with reasonable certainty. Refer to Financial Note 6, “Income Taxes,” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for additional information on income tax matters. At March 31, 2023, our banks and insurance companies have issued $206 million of standby letters of credit and surety bonds. These were issued on our behalf and are mostly related to our customer contracts and to meet the security requirements for statutory licenses and permits, court and fiduciary obligations, pension obligations in Europe, and our workers’ compensation and automotive liability programs. Credit Resources We fund our working capital requirements primarily with cash and cash equivalents as well as short-term borrowings from our commercial paper issuances. Funds necessary for future debt maturities and our other cash requirements, including any future payments that may be made related to our total estimated litigation liability of $7.2 billion as of March 31, 2023 payable under the terms of various settlement agreements for opioid-related claims, are expected to be met by existing cash balances, cash flow from operations, existing credit sources, and other capital market transactions. Long-term debt markets and commercial paper markets, our primary sources of capital after cash flow from operations, are open and accessible to us should we decide to access those markets. Detailed information regarding our debt and financing activities is included in Financial Note 11, “Debt and Financing Activities,” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. RELATED PARTY BALANCES AND TRANSACTIONS Information regarding our related party balances and transactions is included in Financial Note 19, “Related Party Balances and Transactions,” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS New accounting pronouncements that we have recently adopted, as well as those that have been recently issued but not yet adopted by us, are included in Financial Note 1, “Significant Accounting Policies,” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. 57 McKESSON CORPORATION