********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Our future results of operations are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical and current results, and from our projections. The following risk factors represent our current view of some of the most important risks facing our business and are important to understanding our business. These are not the only risks we face. Additional factors not presently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may adversely affect, possibly to a material extent, our business, cash flows, financial condition, or results of operations in future periods. In addition, refer to the cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements at the beginning of Part I of this Form 10-K. Business and Operational Risks We may not be able to keep pace with changes in technology or provide timely enhancements to our solutions and support. The market for our solutions is characterized by rapid technological advancements, changes in customer requirements, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, and changing industry standards. To maintain our growth strategy, we must adapt and respond to technological advances and technological requirements of our clients. Our future success will depend on our ability to: enhance our current solutions and introduce new solutions in order to keep pace with solutions offered by our competitors, including the successful utilization of AI and machine learning solutions; enhance capabilities and increase the performance of our internal systems, particularly our systems that meet our clients’ requirements; and adapt to technological advancements and changing industry standards. We continue to make significant investments related to the development of new technology. If our systems become outdated, it may negatively impact our ability to meet performance expectations related to quality, time to market, cost and innovation relative to our competitors. The failure to provide a more efficient and user-friendly customer-facing digital experience across internet and mobile platforms as well as in physical locations may adversely impact our business and operating results. There can be no assurance that our efforts to update and integrate systems will be successful. If we do not integrate and update our systems in a timely manner, or if our investments in technology fail to provide the expected results, there could be a material adverse effect to our business and results of operations. The failure to continually develop enhancements and use of technologies such as robotics and other workflow automation tools, natural language processing, and AI/machine learning may impact our ability to increase the efficiency of and reduce costs associated with operational risk management and compliance activities. We may experience software defects, undetected errors, and development delays, which could damage our relationship with clients, decrease our potential profitability and expose us to liability. Our solutions rely on software and computing systems that can encounter development delays, and the underlying software may contain undetected errors, bias, viruses, or defects. Defects in our solutions and errors or delays caused by our solutions could result in additional development costs, diversion of technical and other resources from our other development efforts, loss of credibility with current or potential clients, harm to our reputation and exposure to liability. In addition, we rely on technologies and software supplied by third parties that may also contain undetected errors, bias, viruses, or defects that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We could be subject to reduced revenues, increased costs, liability claims, or harm to our competitive position as a result of cyberattacks, security vulnerabilities or Internet disruptions. We rely upon information technology (“IT”) networks, cloud-based platforms, and systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information, and to support a variety of business processes, some of which are provided by third-party vendors. Cyberattacks and security threats are a risk to our business and reputation. A cyberattack, unauthorized intrusion, malicious software infiltration, network disruption or outage, corruption of data, or theft of personal or other sensitive information, could have a material adverse effect on our business operations or that of our clients, result in liability or regulatory sanction, or cause harm to our business and reputation and result in a loss in confidence in our ability to serve clients all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The increasing velocity of disruptive innovations involving cyberattacks, security vulnerabilities, and Internet disruptions enabled by new and emerging technologies, such as advancements in AI and machine learning, may outpace our organization's ability to compete and/or manage the risk appropriately. In addition, threat actors may seek to engage in payment-related fraud or by more frequently attempting to gain access to our systems through phishing or other means. Furthermore, security industry experts and government officials have warned about the risks of threat actors and cyberattacks targeting IT products and businesses. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. 11 Data Security and Privacy Leaks : We collect, use, and retain increasingly large amounts of personal information about our clients, employees of our clients, and our employees, including: bank account, credit card, and social security numbers, tax return information, health care information, retirement account information, payroll information, system and network passwords, and other sensitive personal and business information. At the same time, the continued occurrence of high-profile cyber and ransomware attacks and data breaches provides evidence of an external environment increasingly hostile to information security. We may be particularly targeted for cyberattack because of the amount and type of personal and business information that we collect, use, and retain. Vulnerabilities, threats, and more sophisticated and targeted computer crimes pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks, and the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of our data. Furthermore, if any of our solutions contain a software vulnerability, the vulnerability may be exploited to obtain access to our data or our clients’ data. Our service platforms enable our clients to store and process personal data on premises or, increasingly, in a cloud-based environment that we host. The security of our IT infrastructure is an important consideration in our customers’ purchasing decisions. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently, are increasingly more complex and sophisticated and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable or fail to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate or timely preventative or responsive measures. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we are focused on ensuring that our operating environments safeguard and protect personal and business information. We may be required to invest significant additional resources to comply with evolving cybersecurity regulations and to modify and enhance our information security and controls, and to investigate and remediate any security vulnerabilities. While we have security systems and IT infrastructure in place designed to detect and protect against unauthorized access to such information, including our Cyber Fusion Center, if our security measures are breached, either internally or externally, our business could be substantially harmed, and we could incur significant liabilities. Any such breach or unauthorized access could negatively affect our ability to attract new clients, cause existing clients to terminate their agreements with us, result in reputational damage, and subject us to lawsuits, regulatory fines, or other actions or liabilities which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Third-parties, including vendors that provide services for our operations, could also be a source of security risk to us in the event of a failure of their own security systems and infrastructure. Data Loss and Business Interruption: If our systems are disrupted or fail for any reason, including Internet or systems failure, or if our systems are infiltrated by unauthorized persons, both the Company and our clients could experience data loss, financial loss, harm to reputation, or significant business interruption. Hardware, applications, and services, including cloud-based services, that we develop or procure from third-party vendors may contain defects in design or other problems that could compromise the integrity and availability of our services. Any delays or failures caused by network outages, software or hardware failures, or other data processing disruptions, could result in our inability to provide services in a timely fashion or at all. The speed to closure of significant cybersecurity incidents may be influenced by the cooperation of governmental or law enforcement agencies. We may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by disruptions or security breaches in the future. Such events may expose us to unexpected liability, litigation, regulatory investigation and penalties, loss of clients’ business, unfavorable impact to business reputation, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In the event of a catastrophe, our business continuity plan may fail, which could result in the loss of client data and adversely interrupt operations. Our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our infrastructure against damage from catastrophe or natural disaster, unauthorized security breach, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attack or act of war, public health emergency, pandemic, or other events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. Climate-related weather disasters, including hurricanes, flooding, snowstorms, and severe rainstorms, could also threaten the business continuity of our operations. We have a business continuity plan in place in the event of system failure due to any of these events. Our business continuity plan has been tested in the past by circumstances of severe weather, including hurricanes, floods, snowstorms, and rainstorms and has been successful. However, these past successes are not an indicator of success in the future. If the business continuity plan is unsuccessful in a disaster recovery scenario, we could potentially lose client data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients. If that were to occur, there could be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may be adversely impacted by any failure of third-party service providers to perform their functions. As part of providing services to clients, we rely on a number of third-party service providers. Service providers include, but are not limited to, banks used to electronically transfer funds from clients to their employees, information technology vendors servicing cloud-based platforms, and couriers used to deliver client payroll checks. Failure by these service providers, for any reason, to deliver their services in a timely manner and in compliance with applicable laws and regulations could result in material interruptions to our operations, impact client relations, and result in significant penalties or liabilities to us. 12 We may be exposed to additional risks related to our co-employment relationship within our PEO business. Many federal and state laws that apply to the employer-employee relationship do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of the “co-employment” relationship within our PEO business. State and federal positions regarding co-employment relationships are in a constant state of flux and change with varying degrees of impact on our operations. We cannot predict when changes will occur or forecast whether any future changes will be favorable or unfavorable to our operations. There is a possibility that we may be subject to liability for violations of employment or discrimination laws by our clients and acts or omissions of client employees, who may be deemed to be our agents, even if we do not participate in any such acts or violations. Although our agreements with clients provide that they will indemnify us for any liability attributable to their own or their employees’ conduct, we may not be able to effectively enforce or collect such contractual obligations. In addition, we could be subject to liabilities with respect to our employee benefit plans if it were determined that we are not the “employer” under any applicable state or federal laws. Incurring additional liabilities related to our PEO business may adversely affect our results of operations. We may be adversely impacted by changes in health insurance and workers’ compensation rates and underlying claims trends. Within our PEO business, we maintain health and workers’ compensation insurance covering worksite employees. We establish workers’ compensation insurance reserves to provide for the estimated costs of paying claims up to per occurrence liability limits. These reserves include estimates of certain expenses associated with processing and settling these claims. The insurance costs are impacted by claims experience and are a significant portion of our PEO costs. If we experience a sudden or unexpected increase in claims activity, or our reserves were insufficient for claims activity, our costs could increase. In addition, in the event of expiration or cancellation of existing contracts, we may not be able to secure replacement contracts on competitive terms, if at all. Also, as a co-employer in the PEO, we assume or share many of the employer-related responsibilities associated with health care reform, which may result in increased costs. Increases in costs not incorporated into service fees timely or fully could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Incorporating cost increases into service fees could also impact our ability to attract and retain clients. We made and may continue to make acquisitions that involve numerous risks and uncertainties. Acquisitions subject us to risks, including increased debt, assumption of unforeseen liabilities, and difficulties in integrating operations. Successful integration involves many challenges, including the difficulty of developing and marketing new solutions and support, our exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, and the loss of key employees of an acquired business. The integration and conversion of our acquired operations or other future acquisitions, if any, could result in increased operating costs if the anticipated synergies of operating these businesses as one are not achieved, a loss of strategic opportunities if management is distracted by the integration process, and a loss of customers if our service levels drop during or following the integration process. In addition, an acquisition could adversely impact cash flows and/or operating results, and dilute stockholder interests, for many reasons, including charges to our income to reflect the impairment of acquired intangible assets including goodwill, interest costs and debt service requirements for any debt incurred in connection with an acquisition, and any issuance of securities in connection with an acquisition or new business venture that dilutes or lessens the rights of our current stockholders. If the integration of any or all of our acquisitions or future acquisitions is not successful, it could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and stock price. Financial Risks Our clients could have insufficient funds to cover payments we made on their behalf, resulting in financial loss to us. As part of our payroll processing service, we are authorized by our clients to transfer money from their accounts to fund amounts owed to their employees and various taxing authorities. It is possible that we could be held liable for such amounts in the event the client has insufficient funds to cover them. We have in the past, and may in the future, make payments on our clients’ behalf for which we may not be reimbursed, resulting in loss to us. Similarly, our ability to operate our Purchased Receivable reporting unit is dependent on the ability of our clients' clients to remit their accounts receivable to us. If a significant number of our clients are unable to cover payments we make on their behalf or we are not able to collect purchased receivable balances, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted. 13 Our interest earned on funds held for clients may be impacted by changes in government regulations mandating the amount of tax withheld or timing of remittance. We receive interest income from investing client funds collected but not yet remitted to applicable tax or regulatory agencies or to client employees. A change in regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to be withheld or allowing less time to remit taxes to applicable tax or regulatory agencies could adversely impact our interest income. Certain of our debt agreements contain covenants that may constrain the operation of our business, and our failure to comply with these covenants could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The Note Purchase and Guarantee Agreement (the “Agreement”) that we entered into in January 2019 in connection with our acquisition of Oasis Outsourcing Group Holdings, L.P., contains covenants which may restrict our flexibility to operate our business. These covenants include restrictions regarding the incurrence of liens and indebtedness, substantial changes in the general nature of our business and our subsidiaries (taken as a whole), certain merger transactions, certain sales of assets and other matters, all subject to certain exceptions. The Agreement, and the credit agreements providing for our credit facilities, also contain financial covenants, which are reviewed for compliance on a quarterly basis, that require us not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio of 3.5:1.0 and a minimum interest coverage ratio of 2.0:1.0. In addition, certain of our indebtedness may not exceed 20% of our consolidated stockholders’ equity. If we do not comply with these covenants, it could result in material adverse effects on our operating results and our financial condition. Legal, Regulatory and Political Risks Our business, services, and financial condition may be adversely impacted by changes in government regulations and policies. Many of our services, particularly payroll tax administration services, employee benefit plan administration services, and PEO services are designed according to government regulations that often change. Changes in regulations could affect the extent and type of benefits employers are required, or may choose, to provide employees or the amount and type of taxes employers and employees are required to pay. Such changes could reduce or eliminate the need for some of our services and substantially decrease our revenue. The addition of complex added requirements could also increase our cost of doing business. Our business and reputation may be adversely impacted if we fail to comply with U.S. and foreign laws and regulations. Our services are subject to various laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the SECURE Act 2.0, data privacy regulations, and anti-money laundering rules. The growth of our international operations also subjects us to additional risks, such as compliance with foreign laws and regulations. The enactment of new laws and regulations, modifications of existing laws and regulations, or the adverse application or interpretation of new or existing laws or regulations can adversely affect our business. Additionally, as federal, state, and international regulations become more complex, the risk that we may be unable to comply with those regulations increases, particularly in the event there are different or additional regulatory standards in different jurisdictions. Failure to update our services to comply with modified or new legislation in the areas of payment networks, health care reform and retirement plans as well as failure to educate and assist our clients regarding this legislation could adversely impact our business reputation and negatively impact our client base. Failure to comply with anti-money laundering laws and regulations, which require us to develop and implement risk-based anti-money laundering programs, and maintain transaction records, could result in civil and criminal penalties and adversely impact our business reputation. We are required to comply with regulations administered by multi-national bodies and governmental agencies worldwide including, but not limited to, the economic sanctions and embargo programs administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”), and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”). OFAC places restrictions on the sale or export of certain products and services to certain countries and persons. A violation of a sanction or embargo program, or of the FCPA, or similar laws prohibiting certain payments to governmental officials, could subject us, and individual employees, to a regulatory enforcement action as well as significant civil and criminal penalties which could adversely impact our business and operations. Our reputation, results of operations, or financial condition may be adversely impacted if we fail to comply with data privacy and AI laws and regulations. Our solutions require the storage and transmission of proprietary and confidential information of our clients and their employees, including personal or identifying information, as well as geolocation and biometric data. Certain solutions are enhanced with the use of AI and machine learning. Our solutions are subject to various complex government laws and regulations on the federal, state, and local levels, including those governing personal privacy, AI and machine learning, as well as ethical considerations. In the U.S., we are subject to rules and regulations promulgated under the authority of the Federal Trade 14 Commission, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, the Family Medical Leave Act of 1993, the ACA, federal and state labor and employment laws, and state data breach notification and data privacy laws, such as the California Consumer Privacy Act, as amended. Our European operations are subject to the European Union’s General Data Privacy Regulation. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in the imposition of consent orders or civil and criminal penalties, including fines, which could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We could be subject to litigation or reputational risk if we or our third-party providers fail to utilize data practices sufficient to safeguard proprietary, confidential, and personal or identifying information. The regulatory framework for privacy, AI, and machine learning issues are rapidly evolving and future enactment of more restrictive laws, rules, or regulations and/or future enforcement actions or investigations could have a materially adverse impact on us through increased costs or restrictions on our business and noncompliance could result in regulatory penalties and significant legal liability. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights may harm our competitive position and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against third-party allegations of infringement may be costly. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information, we may be unable to do so effectively in all cases. Our intellectual property could be wrongfully acquired as a result of the use of AI tools, a cyberattack, or other wrongful conduct by employees or third-parties. To the extent that our intellectual property is not protected effectively by trademarks, copyrights, patents, or other means, other parties with knowledge of our intellectual property, including former employees, may seek to exploit our intellectual property for their own and others’ advantage. Competitors may also misappropriate our trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights or duplicate our technology and solutions. Any significant impairment or misappropriation of our intellectual property or proprietary information could harm our business and our brand and may adversely affect our ability to compete. Third parties may claim that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights. Additionally, there is uncertainty regarding intellectual property ownership and license rights of AI algorithms and content generated by AI and we could become subject to similar claims of infringement as we expand our use of AI. To the extent we seek to enforce or must defend our intellectual property rights with litigation, we could incur significant expenses and/or be required to pay substantial damages. We may also be obligated to indemnify our customers or vendors in connection with claims or litigation. The litigation to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights could be costly and time-consuming. We are involved in litigation from time to time arising from the operation of our business and, as such, we could incur substantial judgments, fines, legal fees, or other costs. We are sometimes the subject of complaints or litigation from customers, employees, or other third-parties for various actions. From time to time, we are involved in litigation involving claims related to, among other things, breach of contract, tortious conduct, and employment and labor law matters. The damages sought against us in some of these legal proceedings could be substantial. Although we maintain liability insurance for some litigation claims, if one or more of the claims were to greatly exceed our insurance coverage limits or if our insurance policies do not cover a claim, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. General Risk Factors Our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be impacted by macroeconomic and/or political factors of the U.S. and global economy and such impact could be materially adverse. We and our clients are subject to the impacts related to inflationary pressure, changes in interest rates, potential instability of the banking environment, climate change-based obligations, and other macroeconomic and/or political events. Banking volatility may subject us and our clients to losses on uninsured funds and may make equity or debt financing more difficult to obtain, and additional equity or debt financing might not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. Additionally, our business is substantially dependent on our clients’ continued use of our solutions and support, and our results of operations will decline if our clients are no longer willing or able to use them. Our clients are sensitive to negative changes in economic conditions. If they cease operations or file for bankruptcy protection, we may not be paid for services we already provided, and our client base will shrink, which will lower our revenue. If under financial pressure, our clients may determine that they are no longer willing to pay for the solutions and support we provide, which would reduce our revenue. Our clients may decrease their workforce, which would decrease their demand for our services. Because of spending constraints on our clients and competition in the industry, we may face pricing pressure on our services and challenges in onboarding new clients, which would reduce revenue and ultimately impact our results of operations. Furthermore, if the third-party service providers we rely on are unable to perform their services for us and our clients, our operations could be materially disrupted, and we could face significant penalties or liabilities. 15 We may be adversely impacted by volatility in the political and economic environment. Trade, monetary and fiscal policies, and political and economic conditions may substantially change, and credit markets may experience periods of constriction and variability. Additionally, instability in the banking environment may adversely affect our business. These conditions may impact our business due to lower transaction volumes or an increase in the number of clients going out of business. Further, inflation may negatively impact our business, raise costs and reduce profitability. Current or potential clients may decide to reduce their spending on payroll and other outsourcing services. In addition, new business formation may be affected by an inability to obtain credit. We invest our funds held for clients in high quality, investment-grade marketable available-for-sale (“AFS”) securities, money markets, and other cash equivalents. We also invest our corporate funds in short- to intermediate-term instruments. Funds held for clients and corporate investments are subject to general market, interest rate, credit, and liquidity risks. These risks may be exacerbated during periods of unusual financial market volatility and inflationary pressure. The interest we earn on funds held for clients and corporate investments may decrease as a result of a decline in funds available to invest or lower interest rates. In addition, during periods of volatility in the credit markets, certain types of investments may not be available to us or may become too risky for us to invest in, further reducing the interest we may earn on client funds. If we are unable to reinvest our AFS securities when they mature, our interest income earned and investment portfolio would be reduced. If we sell AFS securities to satisfy short-term funding requirements, we may recognize losses, which would further reduce the interest income earned on funds held for clients and corporate investments. Constriction in the credit markets may impact the availability of financing, even to borrowers with the highest credit ratings. Historically, we have periodically borrowed against available credit arrangements to meet short-term liquidity needs. However, should we require additional short-term liquidity during days of large outflows of client funds, a credit constriction may limit our ability to access those funds or the flexibility to obtain them at interest rates that would be acceptable to us. Growth in customizable funding solutions offered to our clients by the purchasing of their accounts receivable through non-recourse arrangements, including funding payrolls of our clients in the temporary staffing industry, may be constricted if access to financing becomes limited. In addition, our ability to grow through significant acquisitions may be limited. See also “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” If all of these financial and economic circumstances were to remain in effect for an extended period of time, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified people, which could impact the quality of our services and customer satisfaction. Our success, growth, and financial results depend in part on our continuing ability to attract, retain, and motivate highly qualified and diverse personnel at all levels, including management, technical, compliance, and sales personnel. Competition for these individuals can be intense, and we may not be able to retain our key people, or attract, assimilate, or retain other highly-qualified individuals in the future, which could harm our future success. In the event we receive negative publicity, our reputation and the value of our brand could be harmed, and clients may not use our solutions and support, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. We are committed to good corporate citizenship, which is reflected in our company culture and core values. Disclosure of our corporate governance practices including our ESG initiatives, may draw negative publicity from stakeholders. Negative publicity relating to events or activities attributed to us, our policies, our corporate employees, or others associated with us, whether or not justified, may tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. If we are unable to maintain quality HCM and employee benefit-related solutions and PEO and insurance solutions, our reputation with our clients may be harmed and the value of our brand may diminish. In addition, if our brand is negatively impacted, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, including challenges retaining clients or attracting new clients and recruiting talent and retaining employees.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations reviews the operating results of Paychex, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries (“Paychex,” the “Company,” “we,” “our,” or “us”) for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2024 (“fiscal 2024” or the “fiscal year”), as compared to our fiscal year ended May 31, 2023 (“fiscal 2023”), and our financial condition as of May 31, 2024. A detailed review of our fiscal 2023 performance compared to our fiscal year ended May 31, 2022 performance and our financial condition as of May 31, 2023 is set forth in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Form 10-K”) for fiscal 2023. This review should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and the related Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Form 10-K and the “Risk Factors” discussed in Item 1A of this Form 10-K. Forward-looking statements in this review are qualified by the cautionary statement under the heading “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” contained at the beginning of Part I of this Form 10-K. Overview We are an industry-leading human capital management (“HCM”) company delivering a full suite of technology and advisory services in human resources (“HR”), employee benefits, insurance, and payroll for small- to medium-sized businesses and their employees across the United States (“U.S.”) and parts of Europe. We offer a full range of integrated HCM solutions covering the employee life cycle for businesses and their employees. Clients may choose from a breadth of solutions that also allow integration with some of the most popular HR, accounting, point-of-sale, and productivity applications on the market today. We support our small-business clients by utilizing our proprietary, robust, software as a service (“SaaS”) Paychex Flex® platform and the Company’s SurePayroll® SaaS-based solutions. Our medium-sized clients generally have more complex payroll and employee benefit needs, though with the environment of increasing regulations, we believe the need for HR outsourcing services has been moving down-market. Any of our clients on Paychex Flex can opt for the integrated suite of HCM solutions, which allows clients to choose the service and software solutions that will meet the needs of their business. Our portfolio of technology, HR advisory, and employee benefits-related solutions is disaggregated into two categories, (1) Management Solutions and (2) professional employer organization (“PEO”) and Insurance Solutions, as discussed in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K. Our mission is to be the leading provider of HR, employee benefits, insurance, and payroll solutions by being an essential partner to small- and medium-sized businesses across the U.S. and parts of Europe. Our strategy focuses on providing industry-leading, integrated technology; delivering superior customer experiences; expanding our leadership in HR; growing our client bases; and engaging in strategic acquisitions. We believe that successfully executing this strategy will lead to strong, long-term financial performance. We maintain industry-leading margins by managing our personnel costs and expenses while continuing to invest in our business, particularly in sales and marketing and leading-edge technology. We believe these investments are critical to our success. Looking to the future, we believe that investing in our solutions, people, and digital capabilities will position us to capitalize on opportunities for long-term growth. We closely monitor the evolving challenges and needs of small- and medium-sized businesses, and proactively aid our clients in navigating these challenges. Through our unique blend of innovative technology solutions, backed by our extensive compliance and HR expertise, we help clients more effectively hire, develop, and retain top talent in this challenging workforce environment. Our ongoing investments in our platforms have prepared us well for the demands of the current business and regulatory environments, allowing us to adapt while maintaining strong solutions and support delivery, resulting in high levels of client satisfaction and retention. 22 Fiscal 2024 Business Highlights Highlights compared to fiscal 2023 are as follows: (1) Adjusted net income and adjusted diluted earnings per share are not U.S. generally accepted accounting principle (“GAAP”) measures. Adjusted net income and adjusted diluted earnings per share in all periods include an adjustment for net tax windfall benefits related to employee stock-based compensation payments. In fiscal 2024, adjusted net income and adjusted diluted earnings per share also include adjustments for one-time cost optimization initiatives. Refer to the “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” section of this Item 7 for a discussion of non-GAAP measures and a reconciliation to the U.S. GAAP measures of net income and diluted earnings per share. (2) Dividends paid to stockholders represented approximately 78% of net income for fiscal 2024 compared to approximately 75% of net income for fiscal 2023. (3) Percentage changes are calculated based on unrounded numbers. For further analysis of our results of operations for fiscal years 2024 and 2023, and our financial position as of May 31, 2024, refer to the tables and analysis in the “Results of Operations” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” sections of this Item 7. Business Outlook Our payroll and PEO client base was greater than 745,000 clients as of May 31, 2024 and approximately 740,000 clients as of May 31, 2023. Client retention remained high in the range of 82% to 83% of our beginning client base for both fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023 and we have sustained high revenue retention. We continue to increase penetration of our integrated solutions beyond payroll processing, including our HR outsourcing and employee benefit solutions. These offerings are included as part of the integrated HCM solutions within Paychex Flex or provided through the PEO platform. The following table illustrates selected HR solutions client metrics: (1) Percentage changes are calculated based on unrounded numbers. In fiscal 2024, we continued to make investments in technology a priority as companies look to leverage technology solutions to maintain operations, stay connected to employees, and increase productivity. We implemented enhancements to our Paychex Flex platform designed to improve the client and client employee experiences from hiring and onboarding through employee retention. We also continue to focus on artificial intelligence (“AI”) and related technology to leverage innovative technology and advanced analytics to gain deeper insights into prospects and clients regarding their behavior, preferences, and evolving needs. In fiscal 2024, we successfully implemented several additional innovative AI models that significantly improved results for Paychex and our clients. We have further strengthened our position in the industry by serving as a source of education and information to clients, businesses of all sizes, and other interested parties. We provide free webinars, white papers, and other information on our website (www.paychex.com) to aid existing and prospective clients with the impact of regulatory changes. The Paychex Insurance 23 Agency, Inc. website, www.paychex.com/group-health-insurance, helps small-business owners navigate the area of insurance coverage. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024 (the "fourth quarter"), we focused on cost optimization initiatives, including further reductions to our geographic footprint, reprioritization of certain technology investments, and headcount optimization. These initiatives are directed at generating additional cost savings for us and providing greater value to our customers. Results of Operations Summary of Results of Operations for Fiscal Years: (1) Percentage changes are calculated based on unrounded numbers. n/m – not meaningful The changes in revenue as compared to the prior year were primarily driven by the following factors: • Management Solutions revenue: $3.9 billion for fiscal 2024, reflecting an increase of 4%: o Increase in the number of clients and clients' employees for HCM solutions and worksite employees for HR solutions; o Higher revenue per client resulting from pricing realization and product attachment, including increased demand for HR solutions and retirement solutions; and o Lower revenue from ancillary services, primarily due to the expiration of our Employee Retention Tax Credit Service. • PEO and Insurance Solutions revenue: $1.3 billion for fiscal 2024, reflecting an increase of 8%: o Growth in the number of average PEO worksite employees and increases in average wages per worksite employee; o Higher health insurance premiums; and o Growth in ancillary services. • Interest on funds held for clients: $146.3 million for fiscal 2024, reflecting an increase of 47%: o Higher average interest rates; o Higher average investment balances; and o Lower realized losses on investment sales. 24 We invest in highly liquid, investment-grade fixed income securities and do not utilize derivative instruments to manage interest rate risk. As of May 31, 2024, we had no exposure to high-risk or non-liquid investments. Details regarding our combined funds held for clients and corporate cash equivalents and investment portfolios are as follows: (1) The net unrealized loss on our investment portfolios was approximately $137.6 million as of July 09, 2024. (2) The Federal Funds rate was in the range of 5.25% to 5.50% as of May 31, 2024 and in the range of 5.00% to 5.25% as of May 31, 2023. (3) These items exclude the impact of variable rate demand notes (“VRDNs”), as they are tied to short-term interest rates. Refer to the “Market Risk Factors” section contained in Item 7A of this Form 10-K for more information on changing interest rates. Total expenses: The following table summarizes total combined cost of service revenue and selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal years: (1) Percentage changes are calculated based on unrounded numbers. The changes in total expenses as compared to the prior year were primarily driven by the following factors: • Compensation-related expenses: $1.8 billion for fiscal 2024, reflecting a 2% increase: o Higher compensation costs due to increases in average wages. • PEO insurance costs: $471.3 million in fiscal 2024, reflecting a 13% increase: o Increase in PEO direct insurance costs related to growth in average worksite employees and wages, and PEO insurance revenues. • Cost optimization initiatives: $39.5 million in fiscal 2024: 25 o During the fourth quarter, we focused on cost optimization initiatives, including further reductions to our geographic footprint, reprioritization of certain technology investments, and headcount optimization. These initiatives will provide ongoing savings in rent, facilities maintenance, and wage-related expenses. Total expenses, excluding one-time cost optimization initiatives noted above, increased approximately 3% compared to the prior year. Operating income: Fiscal 2024 operating income was $2.2 billion, an increase of 7% compared to fiscal 2023, as a result of revenue growth outpacing expense increases as previously discussed. Adjusted operating income (1) of $2.2 billion, which excludes the impact of one-time costs, reflects an increase of 9%. Operating margin and adjusted operating margin (1) were as follows: Other income, net: Other income, net increased $28.8 million to $43.9 million in fiscal 2024 as a result of higher average investment balances and average interest rates earned on our corporate investments. Income taxes: Our effective income tax rate was 23.8% and 24.0% for fiscal years 2024 and 2023, respectively. The effective income tax rates in both periods were impacted by the recognition of net discrete tax benefits related to the volume of stock option exercises and the associated employee stock-based compensation payments. Refer to Note L of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional disclosures on income taxes. Net income and diluted earnings per share: Net income was $1.7 billion and $1.6 billion for fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023, respectively. Diluted earnings per share was $4.67 per diluted share for fiscal 2024 and $4.30 per diluted share for fiscal 2023. Refer to Note C of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for information on dilutive shares outstanding. Adjusted net income (1) was $1.7 billion and $1.5 billion for fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023, respectively, reflecting an increase of 10%. Adjusted diluted earnings per share (1) was $4.72 per diluted share and $4.27 per diluted share for fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023, respectively, reflecting an increase of 11%. (1) Adjusted operating income, adjusted operating margin, adjusted net income and adjusted diluted earnings per share are not U.S. GAAP measures. Refer to the “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” section below for a discussion of these non-GAAP measures and a reconciliation to the most comparable GAAP measure of operating income, operating margin, net income and diluted earnings per share. 26 Non-GAAP Financial Measures: Adjusted net income, adjusted operating income, adjusted operating margin, adjusted diluted earnings per share, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (“EBITDA”), and adjusted EBITDA are summarized as follows: (1) Percentage changes are calculated based on unrounded numbers. (2) One-time costs and corresponding tax benefit related to our cost optimization initiatives, including further reductions to our geographic footprint, reprioritization of certain technology investments, and headcount optimization. (3) Net tax windfall benefits related to employee stock-based compensation payments recognized in income taxes. This item is subject to volatility and will vary based on employee decisions on exercising employee stock options and fluctuations in our stock price, neither of which is within the control of management. (4) The calculation of the impact of non-GAAP adjustments on diluted earnings per share is performed on each line independently. The table may not add down by +/- $0.01 due to rounding. In addition to reporting operating income, operating margin, net income and diluted earnings per share, which are U.S. GAAP measures, we present adjusted operating income, adjusted operating margin, adjusted net income, adjusted diluted earnings per share, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, which are non-GAAP measures. We believe these additional measures are indicators of our core business operations performance period over period. Adjusted operating income, adjusted operating margin, adjusted net income, adjusted diluted earnings per share, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, are not calculated through the application of U.S. GAAP and are not required forms of disclosure by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). As such, they should not be considered a substitute for the U.S. GAAP measures of net income and diluted earnings per share, and, therefore, they should not be used in isolation but in conjunction with the U.S. GAAP measures. The use of any non-GAAP 27 measure may produce results that vary from the U.S. GAAP measure and may not be comparable to a similarly defined non-GAAP measure used by other companies. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our financial position as of May 31, 2024 remained strong with cash, restricted cash, and total corporate investments of $1.6 billion. Short-term borrowings of $18.7 million and long-term borrowings of $800.0 million were outstanding as of May 31, 2024. Our unused capacity under our unsecured credit facilities was $2.0 billion as of May 31, 2024. Our primary source of cash is our ongoing operations, which was $1.9 billion for fiscal 2024. Our positive cash flows have allowed us to support our business, pay dividends and fund our acquisition of Alterna Capital Solutions, Inc. We currently anticipate that corporate cash, corporate restricted cash, and total corporate investments as of May 31, 2024, along with projected operating cash flows and available short-term financing, will support our business operations, capital purchases, primarily investment in our technology solutions, share repurchases, dividend payments, and the servicing of long-term debt for the foreseeable future. For client funds liquidity, we have the ability to borrow on our unsecured credit facilities or use corporate liquidity when necessary to meet short-term funding needs related to client fund obligations. Historically, we have borrowed, typically on an overnight basis, to settle short-term client fund obligations, rather than liquidate previously collected client funds invested in our long-term AFS portfolio. We believe that our investments in an unrealized loss position as of May 31, 2024 were not impaired due to increased credit risk or other valuation concerns, nor has any event occurred subsequent to that date to indicate any change in our assessment. We do not intend to sell these investments until recovery of their amortized cost basis or maturity and further believe that it is not more-than-likely that we would be required to sell these investments prior to that time. Financing Short-term financing: We maintain committed and unsecured credit facilities and irrevocable letters of credit as part of our normal and recurring business operations. The purpose of these credit facilities is to meet short-term funding requirements, finance working capital needs, and for general corporate purposes. We typically borrow on an overnight or short-term basis on our credit facilities. Refer to Note M of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further discussion on our credit facilities. Details of our credit facilities are as follows: Amounts outstanding under the PNC credit facility as of May 31, 2024 remain outstanding as of the date of this report. Details of borrowings under each credit facility during fiscal 2024 were as follows: 28 We primarily use short-term borrowings to settle client fund obligations, rather than liquidating previously collected client funds invested in our long-term AFS investment portfolio. On April 12, 2024, we and Paychex of New York LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (“PoNY”), entered into an amendment (the “2019 Credit Facility Amendment”) to our $1.0 billion, five-year, unsecured, revolving credit facility (the “2019 Credit Facility”), for which JPM acts as Administrative Agent. The 2019 Credit Facility Amendment, among other things, (a) extended the maturity date of the 2019 Credit Facility from July 31, 2024 to April 12, 2029, (b) amended the interest rate provisions under the 2019 Credit Facility, (c) amended the lenders under the syndication and (d) made other ministerial changes to the 2019 Credit Facility. On April 12, 2024, we and PoNY entered into an amendment (the “2017 Credit Facility Amendment”) to our $750.0 million, five-year, unsecured, revolving credit facility (the “2017 Credit Facility”), for which JPM acts as Administrative Agent. The 2017 Credit Facility Amendment, among other things, (a) amended the interest rate provisions under the 2017 Credit Facility, and (b) made other ministerial changes to the 2017 Credit Facility. Subsequent to May 31, 2024, there were no additional overnight borrowings under our PNC and JPM credit facilities. We expect to have access to the amounts available under our current credit facilities to meet our ongoing financial needs. However, if we experience reductions in our operating cash flows due to any of the risk factors outlined in, but not limited to, Item 1A in this Form 10-K and other SEC filings, we may need to adjust our capital, operating, and other discretionary spending to realign our working capital requirements with the capital resources available to us. Furthermore, if we determine the need for additional short-term liquidity, there is no assurance that such financing, if pursued and obtained, would be adequate or on terms acceptable to us. Letters of credit: As of May 31, 2024, we had irrevocable standby letters of credit available totaling $168.5 million, required to secure commitments for certain insurance policies. The letters of credit expire at various dates between June 26, 2024 and September 29, 2025. No amounts were outstanding on these letters of credit during fiscal 2024 or fiscal 2023, or as of May 31, 2024 and May 31, 2023. Subsequent to May 31, 2024, one letter of credit expiring on June 26, 2024, was renewed for a one year term. Long-term financing: We have borrowed $800.0 million through the issuance of long-term private placement debt (“Senior Notes”). Refer to Note N of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further discussion on our long-term financing. Other commitments: The Company has various long-term contractual obligations as of May 31, 2024, which include: • operating leases for $73.2 million; • purchase obligations for $211.2 million; • workers’ compensation estimated obligations for $218.6 million; and • long-term Senior Notes debt obligations for $800.0 million, plus interest payments of $117.6 million. Refer to Notes A, I, N, and Q of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for more information on these areas. The liability for uncertain tax positions, including interest and net of federal benefits, was approximately $86.4 million as of May 31, 2024. Refer to Note L of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for more information on income taxes. We are not able to reasonably estimate the timing of future cash flows related to this liability. We are a limited partner in three venture capital fund arrangements and have committed to contribute a maximum amount of $30.0 million for investment in equity and debt securities of start-up entities primarily in the financial technology sector. As of May 31, 2024, we have contributed $23.4 million of the total funding commitment. The timing of future contributions to be made to these venture capital funds cannot be specifically or reasonably determined. Our investments in these venture capital funds are not considered part of our ongoing operations, are accounted for under the equity method, and represented less than one percent of our total assets as of May 31, 2024. 29 In the normal course of business, we make representations and warranties that guarantee the performance of services under service arrangements with clients. Historically, there have been no material losses related to such commitment. We have also entered into indemnification agreements with our officers, directors, and non-officer fiduciaries of our pooled employer plan retirement offering, which require us to defend and, if necessary, indemnify these individuals for certain pending or future legal claims as they relate to their services provided to us. We currently self-insure the deductible portion of various insured exposures under certain corporate and PEO employee health and medical benefit plans. Our estimated loss exposure under these insurance arrangements is recorded in other current liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Historically, the amounts accrued have not been material and were not material as of May 31, 2024. We also maintain corporate insurance coverage in addition to our purchased primary insurance policies for gap coverage for employment practices liability, errors and omissions, warranty liability, theft and embezzlement, cyber threats, and acts of terrorism; and capacity for deductibles and self-insured retention through our captive insurance company. Operating, Investing, and Financing Cash Flow Activities Primary sources of cash, restricted cash, and equivalents are through collections for services rendered to our customers and interest earned on funds held for clients and corporate investments. Primary uses of cash include employee compensation and contractual obligations related to business operations, cash dividends paid, share repurchases, purchases of property and equipment, and acquisitions. Our investment portfolio incorporates both corporate cash and funds held for clients. Interest rates, market conditions, and our volatile cash flows are among several factors influencing our investment strategy directing the mix between long-term and VRDN AFS securities vs. short-term restricted cash and cash equivalents held in the portfolio. A portfolio strategy that favors larger balances held in restricted cash and cash equivalents will impact our investing activities due to the offsetting activity in the purchases and sales/maturities of AFS investments. Our cash flows include certain activities that are short-term in nature and have an impact on short-term cash flows due to timing of collection and settlement of obligations as follows: • PEO receivables and worksite-employee ("WSE") accrued compensation: PEO receivables and WSE accrued compensation fluctuate based on either/both: (1) the timing of the payroll cut-off date and the Company’s month-end close, and (2) the timing of when cash is collected from the customer, and it is remitted to either the WSE for wages earned or applicable tax or regulatory agencies for payroll taxes. PEO accounts receivable collections and compensation payments to WSEs and applicable tax or regulatory agencies are settled through our corporate cash and the fluctuations impact our operating activities. • Client fund obligations: Client fund obligations liability will vary based on the timing of when cash is collected from the clients and when it is remitted to employees of the clients utilizing employee payment services or applicable tax or regulatory agencies for payroll tax administration services. Collections from clients are typically remitted from one to 30 days after receipt, with some items extending to 90 days. Fluctuations in client fund obligations impact financing activities. Summarized cash operating, investing, and financing cash flow information is as follows for fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023: (1) The consolidated statement of cash flows for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2023 includes a revision to previously reported amounts related to the presentation of cash flows associated with short-term receivables purchased from our clients under non-recourse arrangements, net of funding reserves. Refer to Note A of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for a discussion on the revision. 30 The changes in our cash flows for fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023 were primarily the result of the following key drivers: Operating Cash Flow Activities Fiscal 2024 • Net income attributable to the reasons discussed in the “Results of Operations” section of this Item 7; • Net changes in PEO assets and liabilities as a result of the timing of cash collected and the settlement of payroll taxes; • Net realized losses on the disposal of assets primarily due to our cost optimization initiatives; and • Increase in income tax reserves related to unrecognized tax positions taken for years still subject to audit by regulatory bodies; offset by • Decrease in accrued corporate compensation primarily due to a decrease in incentive compensation tied to performance measures and the timing of payroll payments at month-end. Fiscal 2023 • Net income attributable to the reasons discussed in the “Results of Operations” section of this Item 7; • Increase in deferred revenue primarily due to set-up fees related to our pooled employer plan option, which we began offering to our clients during fiscal 2022 and amortize over 4 years; and • Change in accrued income taxes due to the impact of an increase in our unrecognized tax position related to ongoing regulatory audits, offset by an increase in prepaid income taxes as a result of changes to the deductibility of research and development costs; offset by • Increase in non-PEO related trade receivables primarily due to timing related to our payroll cut-off and month-end, as well as the timing of cash collections for other ancillary services; and • Payment of federal payroll taxes deferred under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act. Investing Cash Flow Activities Fiscal 2024 • Cash used for the acquisition of Alterna Capital Solutions, LLC and settlement of its outstanding debt at closing. Refer to Note D of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on this transaction; • Cash used to develop and enhance our client-facing internal-use software and the acquisition of third-party customer lists; and • Net purchases of short-term accounts receivable due to an increase in our client base, and funding to existing client base, and the timing of net cash collections; offset by • Net sales from AFS securities primarily due to a shift from investing in VRDNs to reinvesting in cash and cash equivalents due to more favorable interest rates. Our VRDN holdings were $- at May 31, 2024 compared to $344.1 million at May 31, 2023. Fiscal 2023 • Net sales from AFS securities primarily due to a shift from investing in VRDNs to reinvesting in cash and cash equivalents due to more favorable interest rates. Our VRDN holdings were $344.1 million at May 31, 2023 compared to $1.2 billion at May 31, 2022; and • Proceeds received from the sale of two commercial buildings; offset by • Cash used to develop and enhance our client-facing internal-use software and the acquisition of third-party customer lists. Financing Cash Flow Activities Fiscal 2024 • Cumulative dividends paid at $3.65 per share for fiscal 2024. The payment of future dividends is dependent on our future earnings and cash flow and is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors; • Decrease in client fund obligations related to the timing of collections and remittances of semi-weekly tax payments that were deferred at the end of fiscal 2023 as a result of the Memorial Day holiday; and • Repurchases of 1.5 million shares of our common stock at a weighted-average price of $115.37. These shares were retired immediately upon purchase; offset by 31 • Cash activity related to equity-based plans. Fiscal 2023 • Cumulative dividends paid at $3.26 per share for fiscal 2023. The payment of future dividends is dependent on our future earnings and cash flow and is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors; and • Cash activity related to equity-based plans; offset by • Increase in client fund obligations due to the timing of collections and remittances of semi-weekly tax payments that were deferred at the end of fiscal 2023 due to the Memorial Day holiday. Other Recently issued accounting pronouncements: Refer to Note A of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Note A of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Form 10-K discusses the significant accounting policies of Paychex. Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate the accounting policies and estimates used to prepare the consolidated financial statements. We base our estimates on historical experience, future expectations, and assumptions believed to be reasonable under current facts and circumstances. Actual amounts and results could differ from these estimates. Certain accounting policies that are deemed critical to our results of operations or financial position are discussed below. Revenue recognition: Revenues are primarily attributable to fees for providing services as well as investment income earned on funds held for clients. Fees associated with services are recognized when control of the contracted services is transferred to our clients, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for such services. Our service revenue is largely attributable to processing services where the fee is based on a fixed amount per processing period or a fixed amount per processing period plus a fee per employee or transaction processed. Insurance Solutions revenues are recognized when commissions are earned on premiums billed and collected. Fees earned for the purchase of client's accounts receivable under non-recourse arrangements are based on a percentage of funding amounts as specified in the client contract. These fees are then recognized over the average collection period of 40 to 60 days for clients in the temporary staffing agency market and approximately 5 to 15 days for other clients. The revenue earned from delivery service for the distribution of certain client payroll checks and reports is included in service revenue, and the costs for the delivery are included in cost of service revenue on the Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income. We receive advance payments for set-up fees from our clients. Advance payments received for certain of our service offerings for set-up fees are considered a material right. Therefore, we defer the revenue associated with these advance payments, recognizing the revenue and related expenses over the expected period to which the material right exists. PEO Solutions revenue is included in service revenue and is reported net of certain pass-through costs billed and incurred, which include payroll wages, payroll taxes, including federal and state unemployment insurance, and certain health insurance benefit premiums, primarily costs related to our guaranteed cost benefit plans. Direct costs related to workers’ compensation and certain benefit plans where we retain risk are recognized as cost of service revenue rather than as a reduction in service revenue. Interest on funds held for clients is earned primarily on funds that are collected from clients before due dates for payroll tax administration services and for employee payment services and invested until remittance to the applicable tax or regulatory agencies or client employees. These collections from clients are typically remitted from one to 30 days after receipt, with some items extending to 90 days. The interest earned on these funds is included in total revenue on the Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income because the collecting, holding, and remitting of these funds are components of providing these services. 32 Assets Recognized from the Costs to Obtain and Fulfill Contracts: We recognize an asset for the incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a client if it is expected that the economic benefit and amortization period will be longer than one year. Incremental costs of obtaining a contract include only those costs that are directly related to the acquisition of new contracts and that would not have been incurred if the contract had not been obtained. We do not incur incremental costs to obtain a contract renewal. We determined that certain sales commissions and bonuses, including related fringe benefits, meet the capitalization criteria under Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Subtopic 340-40, “Other Assets and Deferred Costs: Contracts with Customers” (“ASC 340-40”). We also recognize an asset for the costs to fulfill a contract with a client if the costs are specifically identifiable, generate or enhance resources used to satisfy future performance obligations, and are expected to be recovered. We determined that substantially all costs related to implementation activities are administrative in nature and meet the capitalization criteria under ASC 340-40. These capitalized costs to fulfill a contract principally relate to upfront direct costs that are expected to be recovered and enhance our ability to satisfy future performance obligations. The assets related to both costs to obtain and costs to fulfill contracts with clients are capitalized and amortized using an accelerated method over an eight-year life to closely align with the pattern of client attrition over the estimated life of the client relationship. We regularly review our deferred costs for potential impairment and did not recognize an impairment loss during the fiscal years ended May 31, 2024 or May 31, 2023. PEO insurance reserves: As part of our PEO solution, we offer workers’ compensation insurance and health insurance to clients for the benefit of client employees. Workers’ compensation insurance is primarily provided under fully insured high deductible workers’ compensation insurance policies. Workers’ compensation insurance reserves are established to provide for the estimated costs of paying claims up to per occurrence liability limits. These reserves include estimates of certain expenses associated with processing and settling these claims. In establishing the PEO workers’ compensation insurance reserves, we use an independent actuarial estimate of undiscounted future cash payments that would be made to settle claims. The determination of estimated ultimate losses by our independent actuary are based on accepted actuarial methods and assumptions. The estimated ultimate losses are primarily based upon loss development factors, and other factors such as the nature of employees’ job responsibilities, the historical frequency and severity of workers’ compensation claims, and an estimate of future cost trends. Each reporting period, changes in actuarial assumptions resulting from changes in actual claims experience and other trends are incorporated into our workers’ compensation claims cost estimates. With respect to our PEO health insurance, we offer various health insurance plans that take the form of either fully insured guaranteed cost plans or fully insured insurance arrangements where we retain risk. A reserve for insurance arrangements where we retain risk is established to provide for the payment of claims in accordance with our service contract with the carrier. The claims liability includes estimates for reported losses, plus amounts for those claims incurred but not reported, and estimates of certain expenses associated with processing and settling the claims. Estimating the ultimate cost of future claims is an uncertain and complex process based upon historical loss experience and accepted actuarial methods and assumptions, and is subject to change due to multiple factors, including economic trends, changes in legal liability law, and damage awards, all of which could materially impact the reserves as reported in the consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, final claim settlements may vary from the present estimates, particularly with workers’ compensation insurance where those payments may not occur until well into the future. We regularly review the adequacy of our estimated insurance reserves. Adjustments to previously established reserves are reflected in the results of operations for the period in which the adjustment is identified. Such adjustments could possibly be significant, reflecting any combination of new and adverse or favorable trends. Adjustments to previously established reserves were not material for fiscal 2024 or 2023. Goodwill and other intangible assets: Goodwill is not amortized, but instead is tested for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change in a way to indicate that there has been a potential decline in the fair value of a reporting unit. We perform our annual impairment testing in our fiscal fourth quarter. During fiscal 2024 and 2023, a qualitative analysis was performed for all reporting units. The qualitative assessment considered various financial, macroeconomic, industry, and reporting unit specific qualitative factors. Based on the results of our testing, no impairment loss was recognized in the results of operations for fiscal 2024 or 2023. Subsequent to the latest review, there have been no events or circumstances that indicate any potential impairment of the Company’s goodwill balance. We also test intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for potential impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests if events or changes in circumstances change in a way that indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We have determined that there is no impairment of intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for fiscal 2024 or 2023 as a result of the qualitative analyses performed. 33 Impairment of Long-Lived Assets: Long-lived assets, including intangible assets with finite lives and operating lease right-of-use assets, are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the estimated fair value of the asset. We have determined that there is no impairment of long-lived assets for fiscal 2024 or as of May 31, 2024. Stock-based compensation costs: All stock-based awards to employees are recognized as compensation costs in our consolidated financial statements based on their fair values measured as of the date of grant. We estimate the fair value of stock option grants using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. This model requires various assumptions as inputs including expected volatility of the Paychex stock price and expected option life. Volatility is estimated based on a combination of historical volatility using stock prices over a period equal to the expected option life and implied market volatility. Expected option life is estimated based on historical exercise behavior. We periodically reassess our assumptions as well as our choice of valuation model. We will reconsider use of this model if additional information becomes available in the future indicating that another model would provide a more accurate estimate of fair value, or if characteristics of future grants would warrant such a change. The fair value of stock awards is determined based on the stock price at the date of grant. For grants that do not accrue dividends or dividend equivalents, the fair value is the stock price reduced by the present value of estimated dividends over the vesting period or performance period. We estimate forfeitures and only record compensation costs for those awards that are expected to vest. Our assumptions for forfeitures were determined based on type of award and historical experience. Forfeiture assumptions are adjusted at the point in time a significant change is identified, with any adjustment recorded in the period of change, and the final adjustment at the end of the requisite service period to equal actual forfeitures. The assumptions of volatility, expected option life, and forfeitures all require significant judgment and are subject to change in the future due to factors such as employee exercise behavior, stock price trends, and changes to type or provisions of stock-based awards. Any material change in one or more of these assumptions could have a material impact on the estimated fair value of a future award. Refer to Note F of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further discussion of our stock-based compensation plans. Income taxes: We account for deferred taxes by recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the consolidated financial statements or tax returns. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the fiscal year in which the differences are expected to reverse. We record a deferred tax asset related to the stock-based compensation costs recognized for certain stock-based awards. At the time of the exercise of non-qualified stock options or vesting of stock awards, we recognize any excess tax benefit within income taxes in the Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income. We maintain a reserve for uncertain tax positions. We evaluate tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return for recognition in our consolidated financial statements. Prior to recording the related tax benefit in our consolidated financial statements, we must conclude that tax positions will be more-likely-than-not to be sustained, assuming those positions will be examined by taxing authorities with full knowledge of all relevant information. The benefit recognized in our consolidated financial statements is the amount we expect to realize after examination by taxing authorities. If a tax position drops below the more-likely-than-not standard, the benefit can no longer be recognized. Assumptions, judgment, and the use of estimates are required in determining if the more-likely-than-not standard has been met when developing the provision for income taxes and in determining the expected benefit. A change in the assessment of the more-likely-than-not standard could materially impact our results of operations or financial position. Refer to Note L of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further discussion of our reserve for uncertain tax positions. 34