********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The following are significant risks which could have a material negative impact on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Business and Industry Risks Commercial Truck Market Demand is Variable . The Company’s business is highly sensitive to global and national economic conditions as well as economic conditions in the industries and markets it serves. Negative economic conditions and outlook can materially weaken demand for the Company’s equipment and services. The yearly demand for commercial vehicles may increase or decrease more than overall gross domestic product in markets the Company serves, which are principally North America and Europe. Demand for commercial vehicles may also be affected by the introduction of new vehicles and technologies by the Company or its competitors. Competition and Prices. The Company operates in a highly competitive environment, which could adversely affect the Company’s sales and pricing. Financial results depend largely on the ability to develop, manufacture and market competitive products that profitably meet customer demand. Production Costs and Supplier Capacity. The Company’s products are exposed to variability in material and commodity costs. Commodity or component price increases and significant shortages of component products may adversely impact the Company’s financial results or use of its production capacity. Many of the Company’s suppliers also supply automotive manufacturers, and factors that adversely affect the automotive industry can also have adverse effects on these suppliers and the Company. Supplier delivery performance can be adversely affected if increased demand for these suppliers’ products exceeds their production capacity. Unexpected events, including natural disasters, may increase the Company’s cost of doing business or disrupt the Company’s or its suppliers’ operations. The automotive industry is currently experiencing a semiconductor supply shortage that is having wide-ranging effects across the automotive supply chain including some of the Company’s suppliers. The shortage may have a short-term impact on the ability of the Company to deliver products to dealers and customers. Liquidity Risks, Credit Ratings and Costs of Funds. Disruptions or volatility in global financial markets could limit the Company’s sources of liquidity, or the liquidity of customers, dealers and suppliers. A lowering of the Company’s credit ratings could increase the cost of borrowing and adversely affect access to capital markets. The Company’s Financial Services segment obtains funds for its operations from commercial paper, medium-term notes and bank debt. If the markets for commercial paper, medium-term notes and bank debt do not provide the necessary liquidity in the future, the Financial Services segment may experience increased costs or may have to limit its financing of retail and wholesale assets. This could result in a reduction of the number of vehicles the Company is able to produce and sell to customers. The Financial Services Industry is Highly Competitive. The Company’s Financial Services segment competes with banks, other commercial finance companies and financial services firms which may have lower costs of borrowing, higher leverage or market share goals that result in a willingness to offer lower interest rates, which may lead to decreased margins, lower market share or both. A decline in the Company’s truck unit sales and a decrease in truck residual values and used truck inventory values due to lower used truck pricing are also factors which may affect the Company’s Financial Services segment. The Financial Services Segment is Subject to Credit Risk. The Financial Services segment is exposed to the risk of loss arising from the failure of a customer, dealer or counterparty to meet the terms of the loans, leases and derivative contracts with the Company. Although the financial assets of the Financial Services segment are secured by underlying equipment collateral, in the event a customer cannot meet its obligations to the Company, there is a risk that the value of the underlying collateral will not be sufficient to recover the amounts owed to the Company, resulting in credit losses. Interest-Rate Risks. The Financial Services segment is subject to interest-rate risks, because increases in interest rates can reduce demand for its products, increase borrowing costs and potentially reduce interest margins. PFS uses derivative contracts to match the interest-rate characteristics of its debt to the interest rate characteristics of its finance receivables in order to mitigate the risk of changing interest rates. 9 Information Technology. The Company relies on information technology systems and networks to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of its business processes and activities. These computer systems and networks may be subject to disruptions during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components; power outages; hardware failures; computer viruses; or outside parties attempting to disrupt the Company’s business or gain unauthorized access to the Company’s electronic data. The Company maintains and continues to invest in protections to guard against such events. Examples of these protections include conducting third-party penetration tests, implementing software detection and prevention tools, event monitoring, and disaster recoverability. Additionally the Company maintains a cybersecurity insurance policy. Despite these safeguards, there remains a risk of system disruptions, unauthorized access and data loss. If the Company’s computer systems were to be damaged, disrupted or breached, it could impact data availability and integrity, result in a theft of the Company’s intellectual property or lead to unauthorized disclosure of confidential information of the Company’s customers, suppliers and employees. Security breaches could also result in a violation of U.S. and international privacy and other laws and subject the Company to various litigations and governmental proceedings. These events could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition, damage its reputation, disrupt operations and negatively impact competitiveness in the marketplace. Political, Regulatory and Economic Risks Multinational Operations . The Company’s global operations are exposed to political, economic and other risks and events beyond its control in the countries in which the Company operates. The Company may be adversely affected by political instabilities, fuel shortages or interruptions in utility or transportation systems, natural calamities, wars, terrorism and labor strikes. Changes in government monetary or fiscal policies and i nternational trade policies may impact demand for the Company’s products, financial results and competitive position. PACCAR’s global operations are subject to extensive trade, competition and anti-corruption laws and regulations that could impose significant compliance costs. COVID-19 Pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic and various governmental responses to contain the outbreak have resulted in a significant reduction in global economic activity. National and local governments have issued various stay-at-home orders, travel restrictions and border closures affecting consumers and businesses. These restrictions have been lifted to various degrees in different locations, but are subject to being re-imposed. The Company’s operations have been designated as essential businesses in many jurisdictions as they support the transport of food, medical supplies and other essential materials which means the Company may operate under certain conditions including ensuring employee health and safety is maintained. The Company’s workforce at a given location could be affected by a localized outbreak of COVID-19, necessitating facility shutdowns. If the Company suspends production at one or more of its factories as a result of the pandemic or related impacts, or if one or more of the Company’s suppliers could not produce needed parts or not produce at sufficient volumes to support the Company’s production plans or aftermarket requirements, revenues and operating results could be adversely affected. The full extent and duration of the adverse effect on the Company’s business is uncertain and depends on the severity of the pandemic and how quickly and to what extent global and local economies are able to recover from the effects of the pandemic. Prolonged unemployment, changes in consumer behavior as a result of COVID-19, as well as other pandemic related economic factors such as business failures, lower housing and construction starts, lower automobile sales and disruptions in financial markets could have further adverse effects on the Company’s truck and parts revenues and operating results and may result in higher finance portfolio past dues, credit losses and used truck losses. Other unforeseen impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic could also impact the Company’s business and results of operations. U.K. Exit from the European Union (EU) . The Company manufactures medium- and heavy-duty DAF trucks in the U.K. which are sold primarily in the U.K. and to a lesser extent in Europe and other world markets. In 2020, approximately 10% of the Company’s worldwide truck production was manufactured in the U.K. The EU and U.K. concluded negotiations on the EU-UK Trade and Cooperation Agreement (EU-UK TCA) which was passed by the U.K. Parliament on December 30, 2020, and is pending formal consent of the European Parliament which is expected in early 2021. The EU-UK TCA provides for continued tariff-free, quota-free access for products traded between the U.K. and the EU, subject to Rules of Origin requirements. The Company believes it will qualify for the proposed Rules of Origin requirements. London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (LIBOR) Transition. Certain financing provided by PFS to dealers and retail customers, as well as financing extended to PFS are based on variable interest rate contracts. These contracts utilize various benchmark rates, including LIBOR, to establish applicable contract interest rates. PACCAR also utilizes hedging instruments and has line of credit arrangements which reference LIBOR (including other similar benchmark rates). In July 2017, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates LIBOR, announced it intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for calculation of LIBOR after 2021. At this time it is not clear if LIBOR will continue to exist, and if not, what alternative benchmark rate(s) will replace LIBOR in the marketplace. Any 10 new benchmark rate will likely not replicate LIBOR exactly, which could impact currently active contracts which terminate after 2021, or after such other date when LIBOR may cease to exist. Substantially all of the Company’s contracts which reference LIBOR, including dealer wholesale financing contracts, medium-term notes, hedging instruments and line of credit arrangements, include fall-back language that specifies the methods to establish contract interest rates in the absence of LIBOR, or provide for the use of an alternative benchmark rate should LIBOR be discontinued. The Company has efforts underway to offer new finance contracts which makes use of alternative benchmark rates in replacement of all instances where LIBOR was previously used. These efforts are expected to be completed prior to December 31, 2021. The Company has retail loan and lease contracts with a December 31, 2020 balance of approximately $148 million, or less than 1% of PFS assets, referencing LIBOR that extend beyond 2021 and do not contain fall-back language or provide for the use of an alternative benchmark rate. The Company will seek to amend these contracts to allow for the use of an alternative benchmark rate. Changes to benchmark rates will have an uncertain impact on finance receivables and other financial obligations, our current or future cost of funds and/or access to capital markets. The Company will attempt to minimize the impact of differences between the current and replacement benchmark rates through pricing adjustments on the financing provided by PFS, but it is not certain the Company will be able to do so. Based on the current balance of finance contracts referencing LIBOR, it is estimated that for a 10 basis point difference between the current and replacement benchmark rates that the Company is unable to recover through pricing adjustments, income before income taxes would decrease by approximately $1.6 million. Accordingly, the Company does not expect the anticipated changes to the use of LIBOR as a benchmark rate will have a material impact on the results of operations. Environmental Regulations. The Company’s operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations that impose significant compliance costs. The Company could experience higher research and development and manufacturing costs due to changes in government requirements for its products, including changes in emissions, fuel, greenhouse gas or other regulations. Litigation, Product Liability and Regulatory. The Company’s products are subject to recall for environmental, performance and safety-related issues. Product recalls, lawsuits, regulatory actions or increases in the reserves the Company establishes for contingencies may increase the Company’s costs and lower profits. Due to the international nature of the Company’s business, some products are also subject to international trade regulations, including customs and import / export related laws and regulations, government embargoes and sanctions prohibiting sales to specific persons or countries, as well as anti-corruption laws. The Company’s reputation and its brand names are valuable assets, and claims or regulatory actions, even if unsuccessful or without merit, could adversely affect the Company’s reputation and brand images because of adverse publicity. Currency Exchange and Translation. The Company’s consolidated financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, while significant operations are denominated in the currencies of other countries. Currency exchange rate fluctuations can affect the Company’s assets, liabilities and results of operations through both translation and transaction risk , as reported in the Company’s financial statements. The Company uses certain derivative financial instruments and localized production of its products to reduce, but not eliminate, the effects of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Accounting Estimates. In the preparation of the Company’s financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, management uses estimates and makes judgments and assumptions that affect asset and liability values and the amounts reported as income and expense during the periods presented. Certain of these estimates, judgments and assumptions, such as residual values on operating leases, the allowance for credit losses and product warranty are particularly sensitive. If actual results are different from estimates used by management, they may have a material impact on the financial statements. For additional disclosures regarding accounting estimates, see “Critical Accounting Policies” under Item 7 of this Form 10-K. Taxes. Changes in statutory income tax rates in the countries in which the Company operates impact the Company’s effective tax rate. Changes to other taxes or the adoption of other new tax legislation could affect the Company’s provision for income taxes and related tax assets and liabilities.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

OVERVIEW: PACCAR is a global technology company whose Truck segment includes the design and manufacture of high-quality light-, medium- and heavy-duty commercial trucks. In North America, trucks are sold under the Kenworth and Peterbilt nameplates, in Europe, under the DAF nameplate and in Australia and South America, under the Kenworth and DAF nameplates. The Parts segment includes the distribution of aftermarket parts for trucks and related commercial vehicles. The Company’s Financial Services segment derives its earnings primarily from financing or leasing PACCAR products in North America, Europe and Australia. The Company’s Other business includes the manufacturing and marketing of industrial winches. PACCAR’s financial results for year ended December 31, 2020 were impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, with the most significant impact in the quarter ended June 30, 2020. The Company’s truck and engine production was suspended at its factories worldwide starting March 24, 2020. Truck and engine production restarted in Europe and Australia on April 20, 2020, and factories gradually resumed operations in North America and Brasil in early May. In the third quarter the Company resumed production at rates sufficient to accommodate demand while maintaining appropriate health and safety protocols. Effects of the pandemic included reduced truck deliveries, increased costs associated with the suspension of production, lower aftermarket parts sales and higher provision for losses on Financial Services receivables. Increased costs related to the suspension and subsequent resumption of production primarily included reduced labor efficiency, costs to prepare factories for safe re-opening and reduced factory utilization. The Company implemented cost saving measures to partially offset the increased costs. During the pandemic, the Company’s Parts segment continues to provide aftermarket support through its parts distribution centers, and the Financial Services segment continues to provide financing, leasing services and related support to customers. 2020 Financial Highlights PACCAR signed a global strategic agreement with Aurora, a leader in autonomous driving technologies, to develop autonomous Peterbilt 579 and Kenworth T680 trucks. The partnership will integrate PACCAR’s autonomous vehicle platform with the Aurora self-driving technologies to deliver enhanced safety and operational efficiency to customers. Kenworth T680 and Peterbilt 579 trucks utilizing the Aurora Driver are expected to be delivered in the next several years. A Kenworth T680 fuel cell electric vehicle and a battery electric Peterbilt 579EV became the first Class 8 zero emissions vehicles to drive to the 14,115 foot summit of Pikes Peak in Colorado, demonstrating superb power and excellent drivability. More than 60 hybrid and zero emissions vehicles are currently in customer testing, which have traveled nearly 500,000 miles. Kenworth K270E and T680E, Peterbilt 579EV, 220EV and 520EV, and DAF CF Electric zero emissions trucks became available for customers to order in the third quarter of 2020. The Company anticipates electric vehicle production may be a few hundred units in 2021. Kenworth and Toyota Motor North America are collaborating on a project to develop Kenworth T680 zero emissions trucks powered by hydrogen fuel cell electric powertrains. PACCAR Parts continues to add global parts distribution capacity to further enhance parts availability to its customers. A new 260,000 square-foot distribution center will open in Louisville, Kentucky next year. 16 PACCAR has been honored as a global leader in environmental practices by reporting firm CDP, earning a score of “A- ” in 2020, which places PACCAR in the top 15% of over 9,500 reporting companies which disclose data about their environmental programs to CDP for independent assessment. Environmental leadership is one of PACCAR’s core values, and the Company has earned an “A” or “A- ” rating for six consecutive years. PACCAR Inc, Kenworth, Peterbilt, PACCAR Parts and Dynacraft were each honored by the Women in Trucking Association (WIT) as a 2020 “Top Company for Women to Work for in Transportation”. The recognition was for fostering gender diversity, flexible hours, competitive compensation and benefits, training, professional development and career advancement opportunities. PACCAR Financial Services (PFS) recently opened used truck centers in Lyon, France, Denton, Texas, and Prague, Czech Republic, and plans to open a used truck facility in Madrid, Spain in 2021. The PFS group of companies has operations covering four continents and 26 countries. The global breadth of PFS and its rigorous credit application process support a portfolio of loans and leases with total assets of $15.80 billion. PFS issued $1.99 billion in medium-term notes during 2020 to support portfolio growth and repay maturing debt. Truck Outlook The Company suspended truck production worldwide on March 24, 2020, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, with production resuming at all facilities by early May. The Company adjusted its manufacturing facilities for social distancing and implemented deep cleaning procedures. Initial truck production rates at all facilities were lower than those in effect at the time of the worldwide closure. In the fourth quarter, production rates had returned to pre-pandemic levels. Future production volumes will depend on market demand for trucks, parts availability from the Company’s suppliers and further government directives related to the COVID-19 pandemic. Assuming no significant impacts from a resurgence of the COVID-19 pandemic, truck industry retail sales in the U.S. and Canada in 2021 are expected to be 250,000 to 280,000 units compared to 216,500 in 2020. In Europe, the 2021 truck industry registrations for over 16-tonne vehicles are expected to be 250,000 to 280,000 units compared to 230,400 in 2020. In South America, heavy-duty truck industry registrations in 2021 are projected to be 100,000 to 110,000 units as compared to 93,000 in 2020. Parts Outlook The Company continues to provide strong aftermarket support to enable the shipment of essential goods and services to communities around the world while following social distancing and hygiene protocols. Strengthening economies and higher truck traffic in the second half of the year resulted in increased demand for aftermarket parts as compared to the first half of the year. In 2021, PACCAR Parts sales are expected to increase 7-9% from 2020 levels. If economic conditions were to worsen, lower freight volumes could reduce the demand for replacement parts, resulting in lower parts revenues and operating results. Financial Services Outlook Based on the truck market outlook, average earning assets in 2021 are expected to increase 4-6% compared to 2020. Current high levels of freight tonnage, freight rates and fleet utilization are contributing to customers’ profitability and cash flow. If current freight transportation conditions decline due to weaker economic conditions, then past due accounts, truck repossessions and credit losses would likely increase from the current low levels and new business volume would likely decline. Capital Spending and R&D Outlook Capital investments in 2021 are expected to be $575 to $625 million, and R&D is expected to be $350 to $375 million. The Company is investing for medium- and long-term growth in aerodynamic truck models, integrated powertrains including diesel, electric, hybrid, and hydrogen fuel cell technologies, as well as advanced driver assistance and autonomous systems, connected vehicle services and next-generation manufacturing and distribution capabilities. See the Forward-Looking Statements section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis for factors that may affect these outlooks. 17 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS: The Company’s results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 are presented below. For information on the year ended December 31, 2018, refer to Part II, Item 7 in the 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following provides an analysis of the results of operations for the Company’s three reportable segments - Truck, Parts and Financial Services. Where possible, the Company has quantified the impact of factors identified in the following discussion and analysis. In cases where it is not possible to quantify the impact of factors, the Company lists them in estimated order of importance. Factors for which the Company is unable to specifically quantify the impact include market demand, fuel prices, freight tonnage and economic conditions affecting the Company’s results of operations. 2020 Compared to 2019: Truck The Company’s Truck segment accounted for 70% of revenues in 2020 compared to 78% in 2019. The Company’s new truck deliveries are summarized below: The decrease in new truck deliveries worldwide in 2020 compared to 2019 was driven primarily by lower build rates caused by lower demand partially as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Market share data discussed below is provided by third party sources and is measured by either registrations or retail sales for the Company’s dealer network as a percentage of total registrations or retail sales depending on the geographic market. In the U.S. and Canada, market share is based on retail sales. In Europe, market share is based primarily on registrations. In 2020, industry retail sales in the heavy-duty market in the U.S. and Canada decreased to 216,500 units from 308,800 units in 2019. The Company’s heavy-duty truck retail market share was 30.1% in 2020 compared to 30.0% in 2019. The medium-duty market was 74,500 units in 2020 compared to 114,200 units in 2019. The Company’s medium-duty market share was 22.6% in 2020 compared to 17.2% in 2019. 18 The over 16 ‑tonne truck market in Europe in 2020 decreased to 230,400 units from 320,200 units in 2019, and DAF’s market share was 16.3% in 2020 compared to 16.2% in 2019. The 6 to 16 ‑tonne market in 2020 decreased to 41,400 units from 53,600 units in 2019. DAF’s market share in the 6 to 16-tonne market in 2020 was 9.5% compared to 9.7% in 2019. The Company’s worldwide truck net sales and revenues are summarized below: The Company’s worldwide truck net sales and revenues decreased to $13.16 billion in 2020 from $19.99 billion in 2019 due to lower truck deliveries in all markets, though primarily the U.S. and Canada and Europe. Truck segment income before income taxes and pretax return on revenues reflect the impact of lower truck unit deliveries and lower margins, driven primarily by reduced demand and the worldwide truck plant closures as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The major factors for the Truck segment changes in net sales and revenues, cost of sales and revenues and gross margin between 2020 and 2019 are as follows: 19 Truck selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) for 2020 decreased to $210.9 million from $269.7 million in 2019. The decrease was primarily due to lower sales and marketing costs ($30.1 million), salaries and related expenses ($22.7 million) and travel expenses ($17.3 million). As a percentage of sales, Truck SG&A increased to 1.6% in 2020 from 1.3% in 2019 due to lower net sales, partially offset by lower spending. Parts The Company’s Parts segment accounted for 21% of revenues in 2020 compared to 16% in 2019. The Company’s worldwide parts net sales and revenues decreased to $3.91 billion in 2020 from $4.02 billion in 2019 due to lower sales volume, partially offset by higher prices. The decrease in Parts segment income before income taxes and pre-tax return on revenues in 2020 was primarily due to lower volume and margins. Parts income before income taxes in 2020 included a $10.2 million gain on the sale of the prior Las Vegas parts distribution facility which was replaced by a new larger facility. The gain was recorded in the second quarter in Interest and other (income), net on the Consolidated Statement of Income. The major factors for the Parts segment changes in net sales and revenues, cost of sales and revenues and gross margin between 2020 and 2019 are as follows: Parts SG&A expense for 2020 decreased to $192.7 million compared to $207.8 million in 2019 primarily due to lower salaries and related expenses, lower travel expenses and lower sales and marketing costs. As a percentage of sales, Parts SG&A decreased to 4.9% in 2020 from 5.2% in 2019, primarily due to lower spending, partially offset by lower net sales. 20 Financial Services The Company’s Financial Services segment accounted for 8% of revenues in 2020 compared to 6% in 2019. New loan and lease volume was $5.02 billion in 2020 compared to $5.63 billion in 2019, primarily reflecting lower truck deliveries worldwide, partially offset by higher finance market share. PFS finance market share of new PACCAR truck sales was 28.3% in 2020 compared to 24.5% in 2019. PFS revenues increased to $1.57 billion in 2020 from $1.48 billion in 2019. The increase was primarily due to higher used truck sales in Europe, partially offset by lower portfolio yields reflecting lower U.S. market interest rates. The effects of currency translation decreased PFS revenues by $7.3 million in 2020, primarily due to a weaker Mexican peso and Brazilian real, partially offset by a stronger euro. PFS income before income taxes decreased to $223.1 million in 2020 from $298.9 million in 2019, primarily due to lower used truck results, lower yields and a higher provision for credit losses, partially offset by lower SG&A expenses. The effects of translating weaker foreign currencies to the U.S. dollar decreased PFS income before taxes by $9.3 million in 2020. 21 Included in Financial Services “Other Assets” on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets are used trucks held for sale, net of impairments, of $375.8 million at December 31, 2020 and $391.4 million at December 31, 2019. These trucks are primarily units returned from matured operating leases in the ordinary course of business, and also include trucks acquired from repossessions, through acquisitions of used trucks in trades related to new truck sales and trucks returned from residual value guarantees (RVGs). The Company recognized losses on used trucks, excluding repossessions, of $88.2 million in 2020 compared to $57.5 million in 2019, including losses on multiple unit transactions of $38.6 million in 2020 compared to $19.1 million in 2019. Used truck losses related to repossessions, which are recognized as credit losses, were insignificant for 2020 and 2019. The major factors for the changes in interest and fees, interest and other borrowing expenses and finance margin between 2020 and 2019 are outlined below: The following table summarizes operating lease, rental and other revenues and depreciation and other expenses: 22 The major factors for the changes in operating lease, rental and other revenues, depreciation and other expenses and lease margin between 2020 and 2019 are outlined below: Financial Services SG&A expense decreased to $122.2 million in 2020 from $137.0 million in 2019. The decrease was due to lower salaries and related expenses as a result of cost controls and lower travel expenses. As a percentage of revenues, Financial Services SG&A decreased to 7.8% in 2020 from 9.3% in 2019. The following table summarizes the provision for losses on receivables and net charge-offs: The provision for losses on receivables increased to $28.8 million in 2020 from $15.4 million in 2019, primarily driven by growth in the loans and finance leases portfolio and challenging economic conditions related to the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, the provision for losses in 2019 also included recoveries on charged-off accounts in Europe. The Company modifies loans and finance leases as a normal part of its Financial Services operations. The Company may modify loans and finance leases for commercial reasons or for credit reasons. Modifications for commercial reasons are changes to contract terms for customers that are not considered to be in financial difficulty. Insignificant delays are modifications extending terms up to three months for customers experiencing some short-term financial stress, but not considered to be in financial difficulty. Modifications for credit reasons are changes to contract terms for customers considered to be in financial difficulty. The Company’s modifications typically result in granting more time to pay the contractual amounts owed and charging a fee and interest for the term of the modification. When considering whether to modify customer accounts for credit reasons, the Company evaluates the creditworthiness of the customers and modifies those accounts that the Company considers likely to perform under the modified terms. When the 23 Company modifies a loan or finance lease for credit reasons and grants a concession, the modification is classified as a troubled debt restructuring (TDR). The post-modification balances of accounts modified during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 are summarized below: In 2020, total modification activity significantly increased compared to 2019. The decrease in modifications for Commercial reasons primarily reflects lower volumes of refinancing. The increase in modifications for Insignificant delay reflects fleet customers requesting payment relief for up to three months related to the COVID-19 pandemic. The increase in modifications for Credit - no concession is primarily due to higher volumes of refinancing and requests for payment relief in Europe, the U.S. and Mexico. Credit - TDR modifications increased to $74.7 million in 2020 from $2.5 million in 2019 primarily due to two fleet customers in the U.S. and four fleet customers in Mexico. The following table summarizes the Company’s 30+ days past due accounts: Accounts 30+ days past due decreased to .5% at December 31, 2020 from .7% at December 31, 2019. The Company continues to focus on maintaining low past due balances. When the Company modifies a 30+ days past due account, the customer is then generally considered current under the revised contractual terms. The Company modified $18.6 million and $1.7 million of accounts worldwide during the fourth quarter of 2020 and the fourth quarter of 2019, respectively, which were 30+ days past due and became current at the time of modification. Had these accounts not been modified and continued to not make payments, the pro forma percentage of retail loan and lease accounts 30+ days past due would have been as follows: Modifications of accounts in prior quarters that were more than 30 days past due at the time of modification are included in past dues if they were not performing under the modified terms at December 31, 2020 and 2019. The effect on the allowance for credit losses from such modifications was not significant at December 31, 2020 and 2019. The Company’s 2020 and 2019 annualized pre-tax return on average assets for Financial Services was 1.4% and 2.0%, respectively. 24 Other Other includes the winch business as well as sales, income and expenses not attributable to a reportable segment. Other also includes non-service cost components of pension expense and a portion of corporate expense. Other sales represent less than 1% of consolidated net sales and revenues for 2020 and 2019. Other SG&A decreased to $55.6 million in 2020 from $84.0 million in 2019 primarily due to lower compensation costs reflecting stringent cost controls and lower travel expenses. Other income (loss) before tax was $18.2 million in 2020 compared to $(17.7) million in 2019. The income in 2020 compared to loss in 2019 was primarily due to lower salaries and related expenses, lower expected costs to resolve certain environmental matters and lower travel expenses, partially offset by lower results from the winch business. Investment income decreased to $35.9 million in 2020 from $82.3 million in 2019, primarily due to lower yields on U.S. investments due to lower market interest rates. Income Taxes In 2020, the effective tax rate was 21.7% compared to 23.0% in 2019. The lower effective tax rate in 2020 was primarily due to the change in mix of income generated in jurisdictions with lower tax rates in 2020 as compared to 2019. In 2020, both domestic and foreign income before income taxes and pre-tax return on revenues decreased primarily due to lower revenues and lower margins from truck operations. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES: The Company’s total cash and marketable debt securities at December 31, 2020 decreased $368.6 million from the balances at December 31, 2019 due to a decrease in cash and cash equivalents, primarily reflecting $1,239.8 million of dividends paid during 2020, partially offset by other cash flows as described below. 25 The change in cash and cash equivalents is summarized below: Operating activities: Cash provided by operations increased by $126.9 million to $2.99 billion in 2020 from $2.86 billion in 2019. The increase reflects $1,391.4 million from wholesale receivables on new trucks as there was a cash inflow of $871.2 million in 2020 versus a cash outflow of $520.2 million in 2019. Higher operating cash flows reflect an increase of $144.2 million from used truck inventories as there was a cash inflow in 2020 ($65.1 million) compared to a cash outflow in 2019 ($79.1 million) and $1 94.1 million from accounts receivable as collections exceeded sales in 2020 ($121.8 million) compared to sales exceeding collections in 2019 ($72.3 million). The higher operating cash inflows were partially offset by lower net income of $1,089.5 million and a higher outflow for product support liabilities of $255.7 million as payments exceeded accruals by $89.1 million in 2020 and accruals exceeded payments by $166.6 million in 2019. Additionally, there were higher cash outflows for pension contributions of $149.2 million and higher net purchases of inventories of $72.8 million as there were $48.2 million in net purchases in 2020 and $24.6 million in net inventory reductions in 2019. Investing activities: Cash used in investing activities decreased by $331.6 million to $1,875.8 million in 2020 from $2,207.4 million in 2019. Lower net cash used in investing activities reflects lower cash used in the acquisition of equipment for operating leases of $308.8 million. In addition, there was $101.0 million of higher proceeds from dealer wholesale receivables on used trucks as cash receipts exceeded cash outflows in 2020 ($53.3 million) compared to originations exceeding cash receipts in 2019 ($47.7 million). The lower cash usage was partially offset by higher net purchases of marketable securities of $109.5 million in 2020 compared to 2019. Financing activities: Cash used in financing activities increased $1,891.9 million to $1,808.5 million in 2020 compared to cash provided by financing activities of $83.4 million in 2019. In 2020, the Company issued $2,150.1 million of term debt, repaid term debt of $1,898.5 million and decreased its outstanding commercial paper and short-term bank loans by $831.9 million. In 2019, the Company issued $2,504.3 million of term debt, repaid term debt of $1,790.0 million and increased its outstanding commercial paper and short-term bank loans by $557.1 million. This resulted in cash used by borrowing activities of $580.3 million in 2020, $1,851.7 million lower than the cash provided by borrowing activities of $1,271.4 million in 2019. The Company paid $1,239.8 million in dividends in 2020 compared to $1,138.6 million in 2019 due to a higher extra dividend paid in January 2020. In addition, the Company repurchased .7 million shares of common stock for $42.1 million in 2020 compared to the purchase of 1.7 million shares for $110.2 million in 2019. Credit Lines and Other: The Company has line of credit arrangements of $3.52 billion, of which $3.29 billion were unused at December 31, 2020. Included in these arrangements are $3.00 billion of committed bank facilities, of which $1.00 billion expires in June 2021, $1.00 billion expires in June 2023 and $1.00 billion expires in June 2024. The Company intends to extend or replace these credit facilities on or before expiration to maintain facilities of similar amounts and duration. These credit facilities are maintained primarily to provide backup liquidity for commercial paper borrowings and maturing medium-term notes. There were no borrowings under the committed bank facilities for the year ended December 31, 2020. On December 4, 2018, PACCAR’s Board of Directors approved the repurchase of up to $500.0 million of the Company’s outstanding common stock. As of December 31, 2020, the Company has repurchased $110.0 million of shares under the December 4, 2018 authorization. The Company has temporarily suspended its repurchases as a result of the economic uncertainty related to the COVID-19 pandemic. 26 Truck, Parts and Other The Company provides funding for working capital, capital expenditures, R&D, dividends, stock repurchases and other business initiatives and commitments primarily from cash provided by operations. Management expects this method of funding to continue in the future. Investments for manufacturing property, plant and equipment in 2020 were $558.8 million compared to $734.0 million in 2019. Over the past decade, the Company’s combined investments in worldwide capital projects and R&D totaled $7.20 billion and have significantly increased the operating capacity and efficiency of its facilities and enhanced the quality and operating efficiency of the Company’s premium products. Capital investments in 2021 are expected to be $575 to $625 million, and R&D is expected to be $350 to $375 million. The Company is investing for medium- and long-term growth in aerodynamic truck models, integrated powertrains including diesel, electric, hybrid, and hydrogen fuel cell technologies, as well as advanced driver assistance and autonomous systems, connected vehicle services and next-generation manufacturing and distribution capabilities. Financial Services The Company funds its financial services activities primarily from collections on existing finance receivables and borrowings in the capital markets. The primary sources of borrowings in the capital markets are commercial paper and medium-term notes issued in the public markets and, to a lesser extent, bank loans. In November 2018, the Company’s U.S. finance subsidiary, PACCAR Financial Corp. (PFC), filed a shelf registration under the Securities Act of 1933. The total amount of medium-term notes outstanding for PFC as of December 31, 2020 was $6.00 billion. In February 2021, PFC issued $400.0 million of medium-term notes under this registration. The registration expires in November 2021 and does not limit the principal amount of debt securities that may be issued during that period. As of December 31, 2020, the Company’s European finance subsidiary, PACCAR Financial Europe, had €1.60 billion available for issuance under a €2.50 billion medium-term note program listed on the Euro MTF Market of the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. This program replaced an expiring program in the second quarter of 2020 and is renewable annually through the filing of a new listing. In April 2016, PACCAR Financial Mexico registered a 10.00 billion peso medium-term note and commercial paper program with the Comision Nacional Bancaria y de Valores. The registration expires in April 2021 and limits the amount of commercial paper (up to one year) to 5.00 billion pesos. At December 31, 2020, 6.84 billion pesos were available for issuance. In August 2018, the Company’s Australian subsidiary, PACCAR Financial Pty. Ltd. (PFPL), registered a medium-term note program. The program does not limit the principal amount of debt securities that may be issued under the program. The total amount of medium-term notes outstanding for PFPL as of December 31, 2020 was 450.0 million Australian dollars. The Company believes its cash balances and investments, collections on existing finance receivables, committed bank facilities, and current investment-grade credit ratings of A+/A1 will continue to provide it with sufficient resources and access to capital markets at competitive interest rates and therefore contribute to the Company maintaining its liquidity and financial stability. In the event of a decrease in the Company’s credit ratings or a disruption in the financial markets, the Company may not be able to refinance its maturing debt in the financial markets. In such circumstances, the Company would be exposed to liquidity risk to the degree that the timing of debt maturities differs from the timing of receivable collections from customers. The Company believes its various sources of liquidity, including committed bank facilities, would continue to provide it with sufficient funding resources to service its maturing debt obligations. 27 Commitments The following summarizes the Company’s contractual cash commitments at December 31, 2020: Total cash commitments for borrowings and interest on term debt were $11.10 billion and were related to the Financial Services segment. As described in Note J of the consolidated financial statements, borrowings consist primarily of term notes and commercial paper issued by the Financial Services segment. The Company expects to fund its maturing Financial Services debt obligations principally from funds provided by collections from customers on loans and lease contracts, as well as from the proceeds of commercial paper and medium-term note borrowings. Purchase obligations are the Company’s contractual commitments to acquire future production inventory and capital equipment. Other obligations primarily include commitments to purchase energy. The Company’s other commitments include the following at December 31, 2020: Loan and lease commitments are for funding new retail loan and lease contracts. Residual value guarantees represent the Company’s commitment to acquire trucks at a guaranteed value if the customer decides to return the truck at a specified date in the future. IMPACT OF ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS: The Company, its competitors and industry in general are subject to various domestic and foreign requirements relating to the environment. The Company believes its policies, practices and procedures are designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage and that its handling, use and disposal of hazardous or toxic substances have been in accordance with environmental laws and regulations in effect at the time such use and disposal occurred. The Company is involved in various stages of investigations and cleanup actions in different countries related to environmental matters. In certain of these matters, the Company has been designated as a “potentially responsible party” by domestic and foreign environmental agencies. The Company has accrued the estimated costs to investigate and complete cleanup actions where it is probable that the Company will incur such costs in the future. Expenditures related to environmental activities in the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 were $1.9 million and $1.3 million, respectively. While the timing and amount of the ultimate costs associated with future environmental cleanup cannot be determined, management expects that these matters will not have a significant effect on the Company’s consolidated cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. 28 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES: The Company’s significant accounting policies are disclosed in Note A of the consolidated financial statements. In the preparation of the Company’s financial statements, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, management uses estimates and makes judgments and assumptions that affect asset and liability values and the amounts reported as income and expense during the periods presented. The following are accounting policies which, in the opinion of management, are particularly sensitive and which, if actual results are different from estimates used by management, may have a material impact on the financial statements. Operating Leases Trucks sold pursuant to agreements accounted for as operating leases are disclosed in Note F of the consolidated financial statements. In determining its estimate of the residual value of such vehicles, the Company considers the length of the lease term, the truck model, the expected usage of the truck and anticipated market demand. Operating lease terms generally range from three to five years. The resulting residual values on operating leases generally range between 30% and 70% of the original equipment cost. If the sales price of a truck at the end of the term of the agreement differs from the Company’s estimated residual value, a gain or loss will result. Future market conditions, changes in government regulations and other factors outside the Company’s control could impact the ultimate sales price of trucks returned under these contracts. Residual values are reviewed regularly and adjusted if market conditions warrant. A decrease in the estimated equipment residual values would increase annual depreciation expense over the remaining lease term. During 2020 and 2019, market values on equipment returning upon operating lease maturity were generally lower than the residual values on the equipment, resulting in an increase in depreciation expense of $99.9 million and $65.8 million, respectively. At December 31, 2020, the aggregate residual value of equipment on operating leases in the Financial Services segment and residual value guarantee on trucks accounted for as operating leases in the Truck segment was $2.42 billion. A 10% decrease in used truck values worldwide, if expected to persist over the remaining maturities of the Company’s operating leases, would reduce residual value estimates and result in the Company recording additional depreciation expense of approximately $80.7 million in 2021, $70.6 in 2022, $55.6 in 2023, $22.6 in 2024 and $12.9 in 2025 and thereafter. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses related to the Company’s loans and finance leases is disclosed in Note E of the consolidated financial statements. The Company has developed a systematic methodology for determining the allowance for credit losses for its two portfolio segments, retail and wholesale. The retail segment consists of retail loans and finance leases, net of unearned interest. The wholesale segment consists of truck inventory financing loans to dealers that are collateralized by trucks and other collateral. The wholesale segment generally has less risk than the retail segment. Wholesale receivables generally are shorter in duration than retail receivables, and the Company requires periodic reporting of the wholesale dealer’s financial condition, conducts periodic audits of the trucks being financed and in many cases obtains guarantees or other security such as dealership assets. In determining the allowance for credit losses, retail loans and finance leases are evaluated together since they relate to a similar customer base, their contractual terms require regular payment of principal and interest, generally over three to five years, and they are secured by the same type of collateral. The allowance for credit losses consists of both specific and general reserves. The Company individually evaluates certain finance receivables for impairment. Finance receivables that are evaluated individually for impairment consist of all wholesale accounts and certain large retail accounts with past due balances or otherwise determined to be at a higher risk of loss. A finance receivable is impaired if it is considered probable the Company will be unable to collect all contractual interest and principal payments as scheduled. In addition, all retail loans and leases which have been classified as TDRs and all customer accounts over 90 days past due are considered impaired. Generally, impaired accounts are on non-accrual status. Impaired accounts classified as TDRs which have been performing for 90 consecutive days are placed on accrual status if it is deemed probable that the Company will collect all principal and interest payments. Impaired receivables are generally considered collateral dependent. Large balance retail and all wholesale impaired receivables are individually evaluated to determine the appropriate reserve for losses. The determination of reserves for large balance impaired receivables considers the fair value of the associated collateral. When the underlying collateral fair value exceeds the Company’s amortized cost basis, no reserve is recorded. Small balance impaired receivables with similar risk characteristics are evaluated as a separate pool to determine the appropriate reserve for losses using the historical loss and economic forecasts information discussed below. 29 The Company evaluates finance receivables that are not individually impaired and share similar risk characteristics on a collective basis and determines the general allowance for credit losses for both retail and wholesale receivables based on historical loss information, using past due account data, current market conditions, and expected changes in future macroeconomic conditions that affect collectability. Historical credit loss information provides relevant information of expected credit losses. The historical information used includes assumptions regarding the likelihood of collecting current and past due accounts, repossession rates, and the recovery rate on the underlying collateral based on used truck values and other pledged collateral or recourse. The Company has developed a range of loss estimates for each of its country portfolios based on historical experience, taking into account loss frequency and severity in both strong and weak truck market conditions. A projection is made of the range of estimated credit losses inherent in the portfolio from which an amount is determined based on current market conditions and other factors impacting the creditworthiness of the Company’s borrowers and their ability to repay. Adjustments to historical loss information are made for changes in forecasted economic conditions that are specific to the industry and markets in which the Company conducts business. The Company utilizes economic forecasts from third party sources and determines expected losses based on historical experience under similar market conditions. After determining the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses, a provision for losses on finance receivables is charged to income as necessary to reflect management’s estimate of expected credit losses, net of recoveries, inherent in the portfolio. The adequacy of the allowance is evaluated quarterly based on the most recent past due account information and current and future market conditions. As accounts become past due, the likelihood that they will not be fully collected increases. The Company’s experience indicates the probability of not fully collecting past due accounts ranges between 30% and 70%. Over the past two years, the Company’s year-end 30+ days past due accounts have ranged between .5% and .7% of loan and lease receivables. Historically, a 100 basis point increase in the 30+ days past due percentage has resulted in an increase in credit losses of 2 to 37 basis points of receivables. At December 31, 2020, 30+ days past dues were .5%. If past dues were 100 basis points higher or 1.5% as of December 31, 2020, the Company’s estimate of credit losses would likely have increased by a range of $2 to $36 million depending on the extent of the past dues, the estimated value of the collateral as compared to amounts owed and general economic factors. Product Warranty Product warranty is disclosed in Note I of the consolidated financial statements. The expenses related to product warranty are estimated and recorded at the time products are sold based on historical and current data and reasonable expectations for the future regarding the frequency and cost of warranty claims, net of recoveries. Management takes actions to minimize warranty costs through quality-improvement programs; however, actual claim costs incurred could materially differ from the estimated amounts and require adjustments to the reserve. Historically those adjustments have not been material. Over the past two years, warranty expense as a percentage of Truck, Parts and Other net sales and revenues has ranged between 1.7% and 2.2%. If the 2020 warranty expense had been .2% higher as a percentage of net sales and revenues in 2020, warranty expense would have increased by approximately $34 million. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS: This report contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements include statements relating to future results of operations or financial position and any other statement that does not relate to any historical or current fact. Such statements are based on currently available operating, financial and other information and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may affect actual results. Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: a significant decline in industry sales; competitive pressures; reduced market share; reduced availability of or higher prices for fuel; increased safety, emissions, or other regulations or tariffs resulting in higher costs and/or sales restrictions; currency or commodity price fluctuations; lower used truck prices; insufficient or under-utilization of manufacturing capacity; supplier interruptions; insufficient liquidity in the capital markets; fluctuations in interest rates; changes in the levels of the Financial Services segment new business volume due to unit fluctuations in new PACCAR truck sales or reduced market shares; changes affecting the profitability of truck owners and operators; price changes impacting truck sales prices and residual values; insufficient supplier capacity or access to raw materials; labor disruptions; shortages of commercial truck drivers; increased warranty costs; pandemics; litigation, including EC settlement-related claims; or legislative and governmental regulations. A more detailed description of these and other risks is included under the heading Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” and in Note L in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 30