********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

This section provides an overview of the risks that may impact our performance in the future. Summary of Risk Factors This section provides a summary of the risks that may impact our performance in the future. For details of our various risk factors and their impacts, see “Risk Factors Discussion.” Our risk factors are organized into the following categories: 1) Risks relating to economic conditions, market conditions and investments, 2) Risks relating to estimates, assumptions and valuations, 3) Risks relating to laws, regulations and taxation, 4) Risks relating to our business and 5) General risks. Risks relating to economic conditions, market conditions and investments In general, economic and market conditions can cause variability in the following factors: demand for our products and services, short-term and long-term interest rates, equity returns, credit spreads, liquidity of investments, level of premiums and deposits, level of delinquencies and defaults, level of claims, level of surrenders and withdrawals and foreign exchange rates. The net effect of this variability can include reductions in business volumes or AUM, reductions in revenues, additional operating expenses, reductions or volatility in net income, inability to meet liquidity needs, inability to access capital and increased cost of capital. Risks relating to estimates, assumptions and valuations We use financial models to price our products, calculate reserves and other actuarial balances, value our investments and determine the amount of allowances or impairments taken on our investments. These models include the use of methodologies, assumptions and estimates. If actual experience is different than our models, our financial results could be impacted. This could impact the timing of our net income or adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Risks relating to laws, regulations and taxation Many different regulatory bodies govern our company. We are required to comply with federal securities laws, insurance regulations, employee benefit plan regulations, financial services regulations, U.S. and international tax regulations, and cybersecurity and privacy regulations. Complying with the various regulations can increase our cost of doing business. We could also face potential fines or reputational risk if we do not comply. In addition, changes in tax laws can reduce sales of certain tax-advantaged products or increase our operating expenses. Changes in accounting standards may adversely impact reported results of operations and financial condition. Litigation and tax audits can increase costs and create adverse publicity for us. Risks relating to our business Business risks include risks associated with competition, products, external business partner relationships, acquisitions and the COVID-19 pandemic. In general, the risks related to our business can cause variability in the following factors: demand for our products and services, level of premiums and deposits, level of claims and level of surrenders and withdrawals. The net effect of this variability can include reductions in business volumes, disruptions in business operations, reductions in revenues, increased claims or operating expenses, reduced economic activity, reductions or volatility in net income or adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition. General risks These risks are of a general nature and include the risk of pandemic, terrorist attack, military action or other catastrophes; the risk of global climate change; the risk of technological and societal changes; reputational risk; intellectual property risk; risks associated with attracting, developing and retaining qualified employees; the risk of interruptions in information technology, infrastructure or other systems; loss of key vendor relationships and risks associated with our enterprise risk management framework. General risks can result in reductions in business volumes, reductions in revenues, additional operating expenses, reductions or volatility in net income, or adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition. 19 Risk Factors Discussion Risks relating to economic conditions, market conditions and investments Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, as well as our access to capital and cost of capital. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and capital position could be materially adversely affected by volatility, uncertainty and disruption in the capital and credit markets. We maintain a level of cash and securities which, combined with expected cash inflows from investments and operations, is believed adequate to meet anticipated short-term and long-term benefit and expense payment obligations. However, withdrawal and surrender levels may differ from anticipated levels for a variety of reasons, such as changes in economic conditions or changes in our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings. For additional information regarding our exposure to interest rate risk and the impact of a downgrade in our financial strength ratings, see “—Changes in interest rates or credit spreads or a sustained low interest rate environment may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and our net income can vary from period to period” and “—A downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings may increase policy surrenders and withdrawals, reduce new sales, terminate relationships with distributors, impact existing liabilities and increase our cost of capital, any of which could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition.” In addition, mark-to-market adjustments on our investments and derivative instruments may lead to fluctuations in our reported capital. Volatility, uncertainty or disruptions in the capital or credit markets may result in the need for additional capital to maintain a targeted level of U.S. statutory capital relative to the NAIC’s RBC requirements. In the event our current internal sources of liquidity do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing and, in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as customers’ or lenders’ perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may limit our access to capital required to operate our business, most significantly our insurance operations. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy statutory capital requirements; fund redemption requests on insurance or other financial products; generate fee income and market-related revenue to meet liquidity needs and access the capital necessary to grow our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter tenor securities than we prefer, utilize available internal resources or bear an unattractive cost of capital, which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility and liquidity. In addition, we maintain credit facilities with various financial institutions as a potential source of excess liquidity. These facilities are in place to bridge timing in cash flows to minimize the cost of meeting our obligations, particularly during periods when alternative sources of liquidity are limited. Our ability to borrow funds under these facilities is conditioned on our satisfaction of covenants and other requirements contained in the facilities. Our failure to comply with these covenants, or the failure of lenders to fund their lending commitments, would restrict our ability to access these credit facilities and, consequently, could limit our flexibility in meeting our cash flow needs. For further discussion on liquidity risk management, see Item 7. “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. Continued adverse economic conditions may result in a decline in our AUM and revenues and erosion of our profit margins. In addition, in the event of extreme prolonged market events and economic downturns, we could incur significant losses. Even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility. 20 Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, investor and consumer confidence, foreign currency exchange rates and inflation levels all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment, negative investor sentiment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our financial and insurance products could be adversely affected. In addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. Our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. In addition, reductions in employment levels of our existing employer customers may result in a reduction in membership levels and premium income for our specialty benefits products. Participants within the retirement plans for which we provide administrative services may elect to reduce or stop their payroll deferrals to these plans, which would reduce AUM and revenues. In addition, reductions in employment levels may result in a decline in employee deposits into retirement plans. Adverse changes in the economy could affect net income negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. An economic downturn may also lead to weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, which would adversely affect the translation of segment pre-tax operating earnings and equity of our international operations into our consolidated financial statements. For further discussion on foreign currency exchange risk, see Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk — Foreign Currency Risk.” Volatility or declines in the equity, bond or real estate markets could reduce our AUM and may result in investors withdrawing from the markets or decreasing their rates of investment, all of which could reduce our revenues and net income. Because the revenues of our asset management and accumulation businesses are, to a large extent, based on the value of AUM, a decline in domestic and global equity, bond or real estate markets will decrease our revenues. Turmoil in these markets could lead investors to withdraw from these markets, decrease their rates of investment or refrain from making new investments, which may reduce our AUM, revenues and net income. For further discussion on equity risk management, see Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk — Equity Risk.” Changes in interest rates or credit spreads or a sustained low interest rate environment may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and our net income can vary from period to period. Interest rates remain low relative to historical levels. During periods of declining interest rates or sustained low interest rates, the interest rates we earn on our assets may be lower than the rates assumed in pricing our products, thereby reducing our profitability. For some of our products, such as GICs and funding agreements, we are unable to lower the rate we credit to customers in response to the lower return we will earn on our investments. In addition, guaranteed minimum interest rates on our life insurance and annuity products may constrain our ability to lower the rate we credit to customers. Declining interest rates may also lead to a reduction in revenues related to our trust and custody business. If interest rates remain low over a sustained period of time, this may result in increases in our reserves and true-ups or unlocking of our deferred acquisition cost (“DAC”) asset and other actuarial balances. During periods of declining interest rates, borrowers may prepay or redeem mortgages and bonds that we own, which would force us to reinvest the proceeds at lower interest rates. Furthermore, declining interest rates may reduce the rate of policyholder surrenders and withdrawals on our life insurance and annuity products, thus increasing the duration of the liabilities and creating asset and liability duration mismatches. Low interest rates may also increase the cost of hedging our GMWB rider. Declining interest rates or a sustained low interest rate environment may also result in changes to the discount rate used for valuing our pension, and other postretirement employee benefit (“OPEB”) obligations, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, certain statutory capital and reserve requirements are based on formulas or models that consider interest rates and a prolonged period of low interest rates may increase the statutory capital we are required to hold as well as the amount of assets we must maintain to support statutory reserves. 21 Increases in market interest rates may also adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. During periods of increasing market interest rates, we may offer higher crediting rates on our insurance and annuity products in order to keep these products competitive. Because returns on our portfolio of invested assets may not increase as quickly as current interest rates, we may have to accept lower spreads, thus reducing our profitability. Rapidly rising interest rates may also result in an increase in policy surrenders, withdrawals and requests for policy loans as customers seek to achieve higher returns. In addition, rising interest rates would cause a decrease in the value of financial assets held at fair value on our consolidated statements of financial position. We may be required to sell assets to raise the cash necessary to respond to an increase in surrenders, withdrawals and loans, thereby realizing capital losses on the assets sold. An increase in policy surrenders and withdrawals may also require us to accelerate amortization of our DAC asset relating to these products, which would further reduce our profitability. Rising interest rates may also cause a decline in the value of the fixed income assets we manage, resulting in a reduction in our fee revenue in the short term. In addition, a significant increase in interest rates may cause a reduction in the fair value of intangible assets in our reporting units, potentially leading to an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. For further discussion about interest rate risk management, see Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk – Interest Rate Risk.” Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price variability and reinvestment risk associated with changes in credit spreads. A widening of credit spreads would cause unrealized losses in our investment portfolio, would increase losses associated with credit-based derivatives we have sold that do not qualify or have not been designated for hedge accounting where we assume credit exposure and, if issuer credit spreads increase as a result of fundamental credit deterioration, would likely result in higher allowances. Credit spread tightening will reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed maturities. Credit spread tightening may also cause an increase in the reported value of certain liabilities that are valued using a discount rate that reflects our own credit spread. In addition, market volatility may make it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent. As such, valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may have significant period-to-period changes from market volatility, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. The elimination of the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) may affect the value of certain derivatives and floating rate securities we hold or have issued and the profitability of certain real estate lending activity or businesses. In July 2017, the United Kingdom’s Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates LIBOR, announced that it would not persuade or compel LIBOR panel banks to submit LIBOR rates after 2021. As a consequence, LIBOR and other inter-bank offered rates around the world are expected to undergo a transition to other reference rates by the end of 2021. The transition to other reference rates may affect the value of certain derivatives and floating rate securities we hold, floating rate securities we have issued and the profitability of certain real estate lending activity. Additionally, pricing activities, models and the profitability of certain businesses may also be impacted. The effect of any changes to LIBOR or discontinuation of LIBOR on new or existing financial instruments, liabilities or operational processes will vary depending on a number of factors, many of which are currently uncertain. Examples of potential factors include, but are not limited to: fallback provisions in contracts; adoption of replacement language in contracts where such language is currently absent; potential changes in spreads causing valuation changes; treatment of hedge effectiveness; and impacts on models and systems. Consequently, at this time it is difficult to estimate the impact of a transition away from LIBOR. The U.S. Federal Reserve, based on the recommendations of the New York Federal Reserve’s Alternative Reference Rate Committee (comprised of major derivative market participants and their regulators), began publishing in April 2018 a Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”), which is intended to replace U.S. dollar LIBOR. SOFR is a broad measure of the cost of borrowing cash overnight collateralized by U.S. Treasury securities. Proposals for alternative reference rates for other currencies have also been announced or have already begun publication. Markets are developing in response to these new rates. Similarly, we have undertaken an enterprise-wide effort to address the transition to minimize the potential for adverse impacts. 22 Our investment portfolio is subject to several risks that may diminish the value of our invested assets and the investment returns credited to customers, which could reduce our sales, revenues, AUM and net income. An increase in defaults or write-downs on our fixed maturities portfolio may reduce our profitability. We are subject to the risk that the issuers of the fixed maturities we own will default on principal and interest payments. As of December 31, 2020, our U.S. investment operations held $75.0 billion of fixed maturities, or 77% of total U.S. invested assets, of which approximately 6% were below investment grade and $104.3 million, or 0.14% of our total fixed maturities that were classified as either “problem,” “potential problem” or “restructured.” See Item 7. “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Investments — U.S. Investment Operations — Fixed Maturities.” As of December 31, 2020, the international investment operations of our fully consolidated subsidiaries held $4.2 billion of fixed maturities, or 50%, of total international invested assets, of which 6% are government bonds. Some non-government bonds have been rated on the basis of the issuer’s country credit rating. However, the ratings relationship between national ratings and global ratings is not linear with the U.S. The starting point for national ratings differs by country, which makes the assessment of credit quality more difficult. See Item 7. “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Investments — International Investment Operations.” An increase in defaults on our fixed maturities portfolio could harm our financial strength and reduce our profitability. An increased rate of delinquency and defaults on our commercial mortgage loans, including balloon maturities with and without amortizing payments, may adversely affect our profitability. Our commercial mortgage loan portfolio faces both delinquency and default risk. Commercial mortgage loans of $15.4 billion represented 14% of our total invested assets as of December 31, 2020. As of December 31, 2020, there were no loans in the process of foreclosure in our commercial mortgage loan portfolio. The performance of our commercial mortgage loan investments, however, may fluctuate in the future. An increase in the delinquency rate of, and defaults under, our commercial mortgage loan portfolio could harm our financial strength and decrease our profitability. As of December 31, 2020, approximately $12.5 billion, or 83%, of our U.S. investment operations commercial mortgage loans before valuation allowance had balloon payment maturities. A balloon maturity is a loan with all or a meaningful portion of the loan amount due at the maturity of the loan. The default rate on commercial mortgage loans with balloon payment maturities has historically been higher than for commercial mortgage loans with a fully amortizing loan structure. Since a significant portion of the principal is repaid at maturity, the amount of loss on a default is generally greater than fully amortizing commercial mortgage loans. An increase in defaults on balloon maturity loans as a result of the foregoing factors could harm our financial strength and decrease our profitability. Mark-to-market adjustments on equity securities, trading securities, derivative instruments and certain equity method investments may reduce our profitability or cause volatility in our net income. Our investment portfolio includes equity securities, trading securities, derivative instruments and certain equity method investments that are reported at fair value on the consolidated statements of financial position with changes in fair value reported in net income. Mark-to-market adjustments on these investments may reduce our profitability or cause our net income to vary from period to period. We anticipate that acquisition and investment activities may increase the number and magnitude of these investments in the future. We may have difficulty selling our privately placed fixed maturities, mortgage loans and real estate investments because they are less liquid than our publicly traded fixed maturities. We hold certain investments that may be less liquid than our publicly traded fixed maturities, such as privately placed fixed maturities, mortgage loans and real estate investments. These asset classes represented approximately 44% of the value of our invested assets as of December 31, 2020. If we require significant amounts of cash on short notice, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize or both. The reported value of our relatively illiquid types of investments, our investments in the asset classes described above and, at times, our high quality, generally liquid asset classes, do not necessarily reflect the lowest possible price for the asset. If we were forced to sell certain of our assets in the current market, there can be no assurance we will be able to sell them for the prices at which we have recorded them and we may be forced to sell them at significantly lower prices. 23 The impairment of derivative counterparties could adversely affect us . We use derivative instruments to hedge various risks we face in our businesses. See Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” We enter into a variety of derivative instruments with a number of counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, clearinghouses, exchanges and other institutions. For transactions where we are in-the-money, we are exposed to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. We establish collateral agreements with nominal thresholds for a large majority of our counterparties to limit our exposure. However, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure. With regard to our derivative exposure, we have over-collateralization requirements on the portion of collateral we hold, based on the risk profile of the assets posted as collateral. We also have exposure to these financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments and equity investments. Such losses or impairments to the carrying value of these assets may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our requirements to post collateral or make payments related to declines in market value of specified assets may adversely affect our liquidity and expose us to counterparty credit risk. Many of our derivative transactions with financial and other institutions specify the circumstances under which the parties are required to post collateral. We are also required to post collateral in connection with funding agreements with the FHLB Des Moines, a reinsurance agreement, and various other transactions. The amount of collateral we may be required to post under these agreements may increase under certain circumstances, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, under the terms of some of our transactions we may be required to make payment to our counterparties related to any decline in the market value of the specified assets. Such payments could have an adverse effect on our liquidity. Furthermore, with respect to any such payments, we will have unsecured risk to the counterparty as these amounts are not required to be segregated from the counterparty’s other funds, are not held in a third party custodial account and are not required to be paid to us by the counterparty until the termination of the transaction. Environmental liability exposure may result from our commercial mortgage loan portfolio and real estate investments. Liability under environmental protection laws resulting from our commercial mortgage loan portfolio and real estate investments may harm our financial strength and reduce our profitability. Under the laws of several states and other jurisdictions, contamination of a property may give rise to a lien on the property to secure recovery of the costs of cleanup. In some states, this kind of lien has priority over the lien of an existing mortgage against the property, which would impair our ability to foreclose on that property should the related loan be in default. In addition, under the laws of some states and under the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, we may be liable for costs of addressing releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances that require remedy at a property securing a mortgage loan held by us, if our agents or employees have become sufficiently involved in the hazardous waste aspects of the operations of the related obligor on that loan, regardless of whether or not the environmental damage or threat was caused by the obligor. We also may face this liability after foreclosing on a property securing a mortgage loan held by us. This may harm our financial strength and decrease our profitability. Regional concentration of our commercial mortgage loan portfolio in California may subject us to losses attributable to economic downturns or catastrophes in that state. Commercial mortgage lending in the state of California accounted for 22%, or $3.3 billion, of our U.S. investment operations commercial mortgage loan portfolio before valuation allowance as of December 31, 2020. Due to this concentration of commercial mortgage loans in California, we are exposed to potential losses resulting from the risk of an economic downturn in California as well as to catastrophes, including but not limited to earthquakes, that may affect the region. While we generally do not require earthquake insurance for properties on which we make commercial mortgage loans, we do take into account property specific engineering reports, construction type and geographical concentration by fault lines in our investment underwriting guidelines. If economic conditions in California deteriorate or catastrophes occur, we may in the future experience delinquencies or defaults on the portion of our commercial mortgage loan portfolio located in California, which may harm our financial strength and reduce our profitability. 24 Gross unrealized losses may be realized or result in future credit losses, resulting in a reduction in our net income. Fixed maturities that are classified as available-for-sale (“AFS”) are reported on the consolidated statements of financial position at fair value. Unrealized gains or losses on AFS securities, excluding those in fair value hedging relationships, are recognized as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) and are, therefore, excluded from net income. Our U.S. investment operations had gross unrealized losses on fixed maturities of $177.2 million pre-tax as of December 31, 2020, and the component of gross unrealized losses for securities trading down 20% or more for over six months was $14.9 million pre-tax. The accumulated change in fair value of the AFS securities is recognized in net income when the gain or loss is realized upon the sale of the asset or in the event that the decline in fair value requires an allowance for credit loss. Realized losses or credit losses may have a material adverse impact on our net income in a particular quarterly or annual period. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely impact our profitability and financial condition. We are exposed to foreign currency risk in our international operations. Principal International sells products denominated in various local currencies and generally invests the associated assets in local currencies. For diversification purposes, assets backing the products may be partially invested in non-local currencies. In our U.S. operations, we also issue foreign currency-denominated funding agreements to nonqualified investors in the institutional market or invest in foreign currency-denominated investments. The associated foreign currency exchange risk in each instance is hedged or managed to specific risk tolerances. Although our investment and hedging strategies limit the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuation on operating results, weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar would adversely affect the translation of the results of our international operations into our consolidated financial statements. For further discussion on foreign currency exchange risk, see Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk — Foreign Currency Risk.” Risks relating to estimates, assumptions and valuations Our valuation of investments and the determinations of the amount of allowances and impairments taken on our investments may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions which are subject to differing interpretations and, if changed, could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Fixed maturities, equity securities and derivatives represent the majority of total cash and invested assets reported at fair value on our consolidated statements of financial position, excluding separate accounts. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (an exit price). Fair value estimates are made based on available market information and judgments about the financial instrument at a specific point in time. Considerable judgment is often required to develop estimates of fair value, and the use of different assumptions or valuation methodologies may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. For additional information on our valuation methodology, see Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 14, Fair Value Measurements.” During periods of market disruption including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain securities, for example collateralized mortgage obligations and collateralized debt obligations, if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the current financial environment. In such cases, the valuation process may require more subjectivity and management judgment. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation as well as valuation methods that require greater estimation, which could result in values that are different from the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments require significant judgment and are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Additional impairments may need to be taken or allowances provided for in the future, and the ultimate loss may exceed management’s current loss estimates. 25 Additionally, our management considers a wide range of factors about the instrument issuer and uses its best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the instrument and in assessing the prospects for recovery. Inherent in management’s evaluation of the instrument are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. For further information regarding our impairment and allowance methodologies, see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Investments — U.S. Investment Operations” under the captions “Fixed Maturities” and “Mortgage Loans” and Item 7. “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — Valuation and Allowance for Credit Loss of Fixed Income Investments.” Any impairments of or valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates expected to be in effect during the years in which the basis differences reverse. We are required to evaluate the recoverability of our deferred tax assets each quarter and establish a valuation allowance, if necessary, to reduce our deferred tax assets to an amount that is more−likely−than−not to be realizable. In determining the need for a valuation allowance, we consider many factors, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards, taxable income in prior carryback years and implementation of any feasible and prudent tax planning strategies management would employ to realize the tax benefit. Inherent in the provision for income taxes are estimates regarding the deductibility of certain items, the timing of income and expense recognition and the current or future realization of operating losses, capital losses, certain tax credits and future enacted changes in applicable tax rates as well as the tax base. In the event these estimates differ from our prior estimates due to the receipt of new information, we may be required to significantly change the provision for income taxes recorded in the consolidated financial statements. Any such change could significantly affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements in the year these estimates change. A further significant decline in value of assets incorporated into our tax planning strategies could lead to an increase of our valuation allowance on deferred tax assets having an adverse effect on current and future results. For additional information, see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — Income Taxes.” We may face losses on our insurance and annuity products if our actual experience differs significantly from our pricing and reserving assumptions. The profitability of our insurance and annuity products depends significantly upon the extent to which our actual experience is consistent with the assumptions used in setting prices for our products and establishing liabilities for future insurance and annuity policy benefits and claims. The premiums we charge and the liabilities we hold for future policy benefits are based on assumptions reflecting a number of factors, including the amount of premiums we will receive in the future, rate of return on assets we purchase with premiums received, expected claims, mortality, morbidity, lapse rates and expenses. However, due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of uncertainty associated with the determination of the liabilities for unpaid policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely the amounts we will ultimately pay to settle these liabilities, the timing of such payments, or whether the assets supporting the liabilities, together with any future premiums, will be sufficient to satisfy the liabilities. As a result, we may experience volatility in the level of our profitability and our reserves from period to period. To the extent that actual experience is less favorable than our underlying assumptions, we could be required to increase our liabilities, which may harm our financial strength and reduce our profitability. For example, if mortality or morbidity rates are higher than our pricing assumptions, we may be required to make greater claims payments on our insurance policies or pay claims sooner than we had projected. Concentrations of risk, by both geography and industry, may cause mortality or morbidity rates in our group insurance or individual disability insurance to be higher than anticipated. Our results of operations may also be adversely impacted if our actual investment earnings differ from our pricing and reserve assumptions. Changes in economic conditions may lead to changes in market interest rates or changes in our investment strategies, either of which could cause our actual investment earnings to differ from our pricing and reserve assumptions. For additional information on our insurance reserves, see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — Insurance Reserves.” 26 The pattern of amortizing our DAC asset and other actuarial balances on our universal life-type insurance contracts, participating life insurance policies and certain investment contracts may change, impacting both the level of our DAC asset and other actuarial balances and the timing of our net income. Amortization of our DAC asset and other actuarial balances depends on the actual and expected profits generated by the lines of business that incurred the expenses. Expected profits are dependent on assumptions regarding a number of factors including investment returns, benefit payments, expenses, mortality and policy lapse. Due to the uncertainty associated with establishing these assumptions, we cannot, with precision, determine the exact pattern of profit emergence. As a result, amortization of these balances will vary from period to period. To the extent actual experience emerges less favorably than expected or our expectation for future profits decreases, our DAC asset and other actuarial balances may be adjusted, reducing our profitability in the current period. For additional information, see Item 7. “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — Deferred Acquisition Costs and Other Actuarial Balances.” Risks relating to laws, regulations and taxation Changes in laws or regulations may reduce our profitability or impact how we do business. Our businesses are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision throughout the U.S. and in the international markets in which we operate. We are also impacted by federal legislation and administrative policies in areas such as securities laws, employee benefit plan regulations, financial services regulations, U.S. federal taxation and international taxation. Changes in laws or regulations or the interpretation thereof could significantly increase our compliance costs and reduce our profitability. Failure to comply with applicable regulations may expose us to significant penalties, the suspension or revocation of licenses to conduct business and reputational damage. Changes in insurance regulations may reduce our profitability. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation. In particular, in the U.S., the laws of the various states establish insurance departments with broad powers to supervise and regulate insurance companies. The supervision and regulation relate to numerous aspects of our business and financial condition, including insurance company laws that apply to PFG and to various transactions between our insurance companies and subsidiaries and other affiliates. The primary purpose of insurance regulation is to protect policyholders, not stockholders or creditors. State insurance regulators, federal regulators and the NAIC continually reexamine existing laws and regulations and may impose changes in the future. New interpretations of existing laws and the passage of new legislation may harm our ability to sell new policies, increase our claims exposure on policies we issued previously and adversely affect our profitability and financial strength. State insurance guaranty associations have the right to assess insurance companies doing business in their state for funds to help pay the obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. Because the amount and timing of an assessment are beyond our control, the liabilities we have established for these potential assessments may not be adequate. In addition, regulators may change their interpretation or application of existing laws and regulations. The NAIC regularly reviews and updates its U.S. statutory reserve and RBC requirements. Changes to these requirements may increase the amount of reserves and capital our U.S. insurance companies are required to hold and may adversely impact Principal Life’s ability to pay dividends to its parent. See Item 7. “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a discussion of regulatory restrictions on Principal Life’s ability to pay dividends. In addition, changes in statutory reserve or RBC requirements may adversely impact our financial strength ratings. See the risk factor entitled “A downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings may increase policy surrenders and withdrawals, reduce new sales, terminate relationships with distributors, impact existing liabilities and increase our cost of capital, any of which could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition” for a discussion of risks relating to our financial strength ratings. The NAIC continues to implement a principle-based reserving (“PBR”) approach to valuation of life insurance and annuities. In recent years, the PBR framework has been implemented for life insurance and variable annuities. Regulators plan to implement PBR for non-variable annuities in the next few years. The ultimate financial impact of these changes is uncertain, but they could result in more volatile and less predictable reserve and capital levels for these products. 27 We have implemented reinsurance transactions utilizing affiliated reinsurers and highly rated third parties to finance a portion of the reserves for our term life insurance policies and universal life insurance policies with secondary guarantees. Our ability to enter into new reserve financing transactions will continue to be dependent on the cost and forms of financing available in the market and our ability to obtain required regulatory approvals. For additional information regarding our use of affiliated reinsurance transactions, see Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 15, Statutory Insurance Financial Information.” The NAIC is pursuing a variety of reforms to its RBC framework, which could increase our capital requirements for our U.S. insurance businesses. A new longevity risk charge is being considered for adoption in 2021. This could increase capital requirements for payout annuity business with life-contingent payments. Changes to credit risk charges for bonds and real estate are also being considered for 2021 and the net impact of those changes could increase our capital requirements. In 2020, the NAIC created a special committee on “Race and Insurance” to investigate how regulators and industry can increase diversity and inclusion, whether current practices exist that might disadvantage minorities and how to address any such practices. We expect further NAIC discussion during 2021 and potentially limited state-by-state activity depending on the pace of any NAIC progress, most likely focused on insurer underwriting practices. The NAIC is in the process of finalizing the development of a group capital calculation. This calculation is not intended to be a regulatory capital requirement, but it will be used by regulators in their supervisory process and could create an additional data point for regulators to consider in evaluating our capital position. Our international insurance businesses are also subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision from central and/or local governmental authorities in each country in which we operate. New interpretations of existing laws and regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations may harm our international businesses, increase the cost of compliance and reduce our profitability in those businesses. The International Association of Insurance Supervisors adopted its common framework for the supervision of Internationally Active Insurance Groups (“IAIGs”) in 2019. We currently are not designated as an IAIG. If we were so designated in the future, we may be subject to supervision and capital requirements beyond those applicable to any competitors without those designations. These international frameworks may influence the regulatory capital requirements in the jurisdictions in which we operate, potentially leading to an increase in our capital requirements. Changes in federal, state and international securities laws may reduce our profitability. Our asset management and accumulation and life insurance businesses are subject to various levels of regulation under federal, state and international securities laws. For example, insurance and investment products such as variable annuities, variable life insurance, mutual fund products and some funding agreements that constitute securities are subject to securities laws and regulations, including state securities regulation as well as federal regulation under the SEC, FINRA and other regulatory authorities. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect investors in the securities markets or investment advisory or brokerage clients and generally grant supervisory agencies and self-regulatory organizations broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with such laws and regulations. In addition, we are subject to local laws and regulations in the global jurisdictions in which we offer or provide asset management services and products. Changes to these laws or regulations, or the interpretation thereof, that restrict the conduct of our business could significantly increase our compliance costs and reduce our profitability. Changes in employee benefit regulations may reduce our profitability. We provide products and services to certain employee benefit plans that are subject to ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The U.S. Congress has, from time to time, considered legislation relating to changes in ERISA to permit application of state law remedies, such as consequential and punitive damages, in lawsuits for wrongful denial of benefits, which, if adopted, could increase our liability for damages in future litigation. In addition, reductions in contribution levels to defined contribution plans may decrease our profitability. 28 In 2016, regulations issued by the DOL became effective, which expanded the scope of activities constituting fiduciary investment advice and imposed a “best interest” standard on advisors. The DOL’s fiduciary rule was vacated by a Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals decision in 2018 and shortly thereafter the DOL issued a bulletin indicating that companies could continue to rely temporarily on the struck down rule, but only on a temporary basis, while the DOL reformulated the fiduciary rule. On June 29, 2020, the DOL initiated a two-part regulatory package, including (1) a final rule that effectively reinstates all guidance and exemptions that were changed by the vacated 2016 fiduciary rule, including the fiduciary “five-part” test, and (2) a proposed, new prohibited transaction exemption for fiduciaries who provide investment advice to retirement investors. While the final rule and the proposed exemption have been widely supported by industry, concern remains about language contained in the preamble that appears to materially change the 5-part fiduciary test, with possible retroactive application. The rule was published in the Federal Register in December 2020. The Office of Management and Budget signaled it considers it a “major rule” that is “economically significant.” The rule will become effective after President-elect Biden is sworn into office. This gives the Biden administration an opportunity to propose changes or initiate its own proposal through the notice and comment process. The SEC’s Regulation Best Interest (“Reg BI”) took effect on June 30, 2020. It requires financial professionals to act in consumers’ best interest when giving personalized investment advice. Notwithstanding the SEC’s Reg BI going into effect in 2020, some states may still consider changes to their own insurance and securities laws and/or regulations in 2021. In 2020, Massachusetts promulgated regulations imposing a fiduciary duty on broker-dealers and agents and the NAIC adopted best interest enhancements to its existing annuity suitability model. A number of states adopted the updated NAIC model in 2020 and many more are poised to take steps in that direction in 2021. Related state fiduciary or “best interest” legislation and/or regulation is expected in 2021. Financial services regulatory reform may reduce our profitability, impact how we do business or limit our ability to engage in certain capital expenditures. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act became law. The Act makes extensive changes to the laws regulating financial services firms and requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementation rules and regulations, including those surrounding the use of derivatives. Some aspects of Dodd-Frank continue to be implemented, and there are some efforts to eliminate or adjust certain elements of the law. Uncertainty remains regarding the continued implementation of and potential adjustments to Dodd-Frank and it is uncertain whether changes to Dodd-Frank will result in a material effect on our business operations. Changes in cybersecurity or privacy regulations may increase our compliance costs and lead to increased scrutiny. We collect, process, store, share, disclose and use information from and about our customers, plan participants and website and application users, including personal information and other data. Any actual or perceived failure by us to comply with our privacy policies, privacy-related obligations to customers or third parties, data disclosure and consent obligations or privacy or security-related legal obligations may result in governmental enforcement actions, litigation or public statements critical of us. Such actual or perceived failures could also cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our business. 29 We are subject to numerous federal, state and international regulations regarding the privacy and security of personal information. These laws vary widely by jurisdiction. Recent regulations with a significant impact on our operations include the European Union (“EU”) GDPR, the New York Department of Financial Services Part 500 cybersecurity requirements for financial services companies and the California Consumer Privacy Act. GDPR became effective in May 2018 for EU data subjects. GDPR includes numerous protections for individuals in the EU, including but not limited to notification requirements for data breaches, the right to access personal data and the right to be forgotten. Other countries have enacted, or are considering enacting, legislation that is similar in scope to GDPR. The New York Department of Financial Services Part 500 cybersecurity requirements, which became effective in March 2017, focus on minimum standards for cybersecurity programs. The California Consumer Privacy Act, which was effective January 1, 2020, contains similar consumer protections to those in the EU GDPR and applies to companies processing personal data of California residents. Similar standards are set forth in the NAIC’s Insurance Data Security Model Law. It is anticipated that additional federal, state and international regulations will continue to be enacted in the future. Changes in existing cybersecurity and privacy regulations or the enactment of new regulations may increase our compliance costs and failure to comply with these regulations may lead to reputational damage, fines or civil damages and increased regulatory scrutiny. Changes in tax laws could increase our tax costs and reduce sales of our insurance, annuity and investment products. Many of the insurance, annuity and investment products we issue receive favorable tax treatment under current U.S. federal income tax laws. Changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could reduce or eliminate the tax advantages of certain of our products, thus making these products less attractive to our customers. This may lead to a reduction in sales and deposits, which may adversely impact our profitability. In addition, we benefit from certain tax items, including but not limited to, dividends received deductions, tax credits (such as foreign tax credits), tax-exempt bond interest and insurance reserve deductions. From time to time, the U.S. Congress, as well as foreign, state and local governments, consider legislative changes that could reduce or eliminate the benefits associated with these and other tax items. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has released proposed policies around base erosion and profit shifting and modernizing global tax systems originally designed to only account for physical presence. Our profitability could be negatively impacted as legislation is adopted by participating countries. We continue to evaluate the impact potential tax reform proposals may have on our future results of operations and financial condition. For a further discussion of tax matters, see Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 10, Income Taxes.” Our ability to pay stockholder dividends and meet our obligations may be constrained by the limitations on dividends Iowa insurance laws impose on Principal Life. We are an insurance holding company whose assets include all of the outstanding shares of the common stock of Principal Life and other subsidiaries. Our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders and meet our obligations, including paying operating expenses and any debt service, depends upon the receipt of dividends from Principal Life. Iowa insurance laws impose limitations on the ability of Principal Life to pay dividends to its parent. Any inability of Principal Life to pay dividends in the future may cause us to be unable to pay dividends to our stockholders and meet our other obligations. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a discussion of regulatory restrictions on Principal Life’s ability to pay dividends. Changes in accounting standards may adversely affect our reported results of operations and financial condition. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”). From time to time, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”). The required adoption of future accounting standards may adversely affect our reported results of operations and financial condition. For a discussion of the impact of accounting pronouncements issued but not yet implemented, see Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1, Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies”. In August 2018, the FASB issued final guidance on targeted improvements to the accounting for long-duration insurance contracts. The guidance will become effective for us on January 1, 2023. As we progress through our implementation, we will be able to better assess the impact to our consolidated financial statements; however, we expect it will significantly change how we account for many of our insurance and annuity products and it could negatively impact our reported profitability and financial ratios. In addition, the required adoption of new accounting standards may result in significant incremental costs associated with initial implementation and ongoing compliance. 30 Litigation and regulatory investigations may affect our financial strength or reduce our profitability. We are regularly involved in litigation, both as a defendant and as a plaintiff, but primarily as a defendant. Litigation naming us as a defendant ordinarily arises out of our business operations as a provider of asset management and accumulation products and services; Specialty Benefits insurance and Individual Life insurance; and our investment activities. We are, from time to time, also involved in various governmental, regulatory and administrative proceedings and inquiries. Legal liability or adverse publicity with respect to current or future legal or regulatory actions, whether or not involving us, may affect our financial strength or reduce our profitability. For further discussion on litigation and regulatory investigation risk, see Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 12, Contingencies, Guarantees, Indemnifications and Leases” under the caption, “Litigation and Regulatory Contingencies” and Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 10, Income Taxes” under the caption “Other Tax Information.” From time to time we may become subject to tax audits, tax litigation or similar proceedings, and as a result we may owe additional taxes, interest and penalties in amounts that may be material. We are subject to income taxes in the United States as well as many other jurisdictions. In determining our provisions for income taxes and our accounting for tax-related matters in general, we are required to exercise judgment. We regularly make estimates where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The final determination of any tax audit, appeal of the decision of a taxing authority, tax litigation or similar proceedings may be materially different from that reflected in our historical financial statements. The assessment of additional taxes, interest and penalties could be materially adverse to our current and future results of operations and financial condition. Applicable laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may discourage takeovers and business combinations that some stockholders might consider in their best interests. State laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay, defer, prevent, or render more difficult a takeover attempt that some stockholders might consider in their best interests. For instance, they may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. State laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may also make it difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions may facilitate management entrenchment, which may delay, defer or prevent a change in our control, which may not be in the best interests of our stockholders. The following provisions, included in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, may also have anti-takeover effects and may delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt that some stockholders might consider in their best interests. In particular, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws: 31 In addition, Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware may limit the ability of an “interested stockholder” to engage in business combinations with us. An interested stockholder is defined to include persons owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. Risks relating to our business Competition, including from companies that may have greater financial resources, broader arrays of products, higher ratings and stronger financial performance, may impair our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers and maintain our profitability. We believe our ability to compete is based on a number of factors including scale, service, product features, price, investment performance, commission structure, distribution capacity, financial strength ratings and name recognition. We compete with a large number of financial services companies such as banks, mutual funds, institutional trust companies, broker-dealers, insurers and asset managers, many of which have advantages over us in one or more of the above competitive factors. Each of our segments faces strong competition: In the event competitors charge lower premiums or fees for substantially similar products, we may face pressure to lower our prices in order to attract and retain customers and distributors. Reductions in the premiums and fees we charge may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. A downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings may increase policy surrenders and withdrawals, reduce new sales, terminate relationships with distributors, impact existing liabilities and increase our cost of capital, any of which could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. A.M. Best, Fitch, Moody’s and S&P publish financial strength ratings on U.S. life insurance companies as well as some of our international insurance companies. These ratings indicate the applicable rating agency’s opinion regarding an insurance company’s ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations. These rating agencies also assign credit ratings on non-life insurance entities, such as PFG and Principal Financial Services, Inc. (“PFS”). Credit ratings indicate the applicable rating agency’s opinion regarding a debt issuer’s ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner and are important factors in overall funding profile and ability to access external capital. Ratings are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and maintaining public confidence in products being offered. Our ratings could be downgraded at any time without advance notice by any rating agency. A ratings downgrade, or the potential for such a downgrade, could, among other things: 32 Any of these consequences could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. For further discussion on financial strength and credit ratings outlook, see Item 7. “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Client terminations or withdrawals or changes in investor preferences may lead to a reduction in revenues for our asset management and accumulation businesses. Revenues from our asset management and accumulation products are primarily fee-based. Our asset-based fees are typically calculated as a percentage of the market value of AUM. Our asset management and accumulation clients may elect to terminate their relationship with us or withdraw funds, generally on short notice. Client terminations and withdrawals may be driven by a variety of factors, including economic conditions, investment performance, investor preferences or changes in our reputation in the marketplace. Significant terminations or withdrawals may reduce our AUM, thus adversely affecting our revenues and profitability. In addition, fee levels can vary significantly among different types of investments. We generally earn higher fees on liquid alternatives and equity investments vs. fixed income investments and on actively managed investments vs. indexed or passive investment strategies. Therefore, our fee revenue is impacted by both the value and the composition of our AUM. Investor preferences with respect to asset classes and investment strategies may shift over time due to market conditions, tax law changes, regulatory changes and various other factors. Changes in the composition of our AUM may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Guarantees within certain of our products that protect policyholders may decrease our net income or increase the volatility of our results of operations or financial position under U.S. GAAP if our hedging or risk management strategies prove ineffective or insufficient. Certain of our variable annuity products include guaranteed minimum death benefits and/or guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits. Periods of significant and sustained downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility or reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the valuation of the future policy benefit or contractholder fund liabilities associated with such products, resulting in a reduction to net income. We use derivative instruments to attempt to mitigate changes in the liability exposure related to interest rate, equity market and volatility movements, and the volatility of net income associated with these liabilities. However, we remain liable for the guaranteed benefits in the event that derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay. The liability exposure and volatility of net income may also be influenced by changes in market credit spreads reflecting our own creditworthiness, for which we do not attempt to hedge. In addition, we are subject to the risk that hedging and other management procedures prove ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market events, produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques employed. These, individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on our net income, financial condition or liquidity. We are also subject to the risk that the cost of hedging these guaranteed minimum benefits increases as implied volatilities increase and/or interest rates decrease, resulting in a reduction to net income. Our international businesses face political, legal, operational and other risks that could reduce our profitability in those businesses. Our international businesses face political, legal, operational and other risks that we do not face in our operations in the U.S. We face the risk of discriminatory regulation, nationalization or expropriation of assets, price controls and exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the locations in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold into U.S. dollars or other currencies. Our international businesses also face the risk of political instability and social unrest, which heightens our risks as those may lead to disruptions to those businesses and to local financial markets and commerce and reduced economic activity in the countries in which we operate. Some of our international businesses are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging or potentially volatile markets. For example, the Chilean government currently is contemplating reforms to its mandatory pension system and it is difficult to predict with certainty the ultimate outcome of any potential reform proposals. In addition, we rely on local staff, including local sales forces, in those locations where there is a risk we may encounter labor problems with local staff, especially in locations where workers’ associations and trade unions are strong. We face risks arising from our participation in joint ventures. We participate in joint ventures, primarily in our international businesses and real estate investment operations. In these joint ventures, we lack complete management and operational control over the operations, and our joint venture partners may have objectives that are not fully aligned with our interests. These factors may limit our ability to take action to protect or increase the value of our investment in the joint venture. 33 We may need to fund deficiencies in our Closed Block assets. In connection with its conversion in 1998 into a stock life insurance company, Principal Life established an accounting mechanism, known as a “Closed Block” for the benefit of participating ordinary life insurance policies that had a dividend scale in force on July 1, 1998. We allocated assets to the Closed Block as of July 1, 1998, in an amount such that we expected the cash flows, together with anticipated revenues from the policies in the Closed Block, to be sufficient to support the Closed Block business, including payment of claims, certain direct expenses, charges and taxes and to provide for the continuation of aggregate dividend scales in accordance with the 1997 policy dividend scales if the experience underlying such scales continued, and to allow for appropriate adjustments in such scales if the experience changed. We will continue to pay guaranteed benefits under the policies included in the Closed Block, in accordance with their terms. The Closed Block assets, cash flows generated by the Closed Block assets and anticipated revenues from policies included in the Closed Block may not be sufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these policies. If they are not sufficient, we must fund the shortfall. Even if they are sufficient, we may choose for business reasons to support dividend payments on policies in the Closed Block with our general account funds. The Closed Block assets, cash flows generated by the Closed Block assets and anticipated revenues from policies in the Closed Block will benefit only the holders of those policies. In addition, to the extent these amounts are greater than the amounts estimated at the time we funded the Closed Block, dividends payable in respect of the policies included in the Closed Block may be greater than they would have been in the absence of a Closed Block. Any excess net income will be available for distribution over time to Closed Block policyholders but will not be available to our stockholders. See Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 6, Closed Block” for further details. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting financial market impacts could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of COVID-19 as a pandemic. COVID-19 continues to spread in the United States and throughout the world. Federal, state and local governments have taken various actions to limit the spread of the disease, including quarantines, travel restrictions, limitations on gatherings, closures of businesses and other social distancing measures. The COVID-19 pandemic and the efforts to contain the outbreak have led to significant economic disruption, including declines in interest rates, extreme volatility in financial markets, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, reduced economic activity and a sharp increase in unemployment claims. The COVID-19 pandemic may have material adverse impacts on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Specific impacts may include, but are not limited to, increased claims on our life and disability insurance business; increased customer withdrawals; operational disruptions, including employees working remotely; health risks to our employees; an increase in defaults on our fixed maturity and mortgage loan portfolios and a reduction in the value and liquidity of our invested assets. In addition, rising unemployment as a result of continued restrictions on businesses may lead to lower sales in our businesses, reduced in-group growth in our Specialty Benefits insurance business and a decline in employee deposits into retirement plans. Ongoing economic disruptions may lead to declines and volatility in interest rates or equity prices, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our foreign subsidiaries have historically intended to operate in a manner that will not cause them to be subject to additional income taxation due to having their central management and control exercised outside of their country of incorporation. However, our directors and personnel reside in various jurisdictions and often must travel to carry out their duties in accordance with such intended tax positions. Travel restrictions imposed as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic have limited, and may continue to limit, such travel. While we have implemented contingency plans to mitigate the impact of such travel restrictions, no assurances can be provided that we will not become subject to greater tax liabilities than anticipated due to restrictions on the ability of our directors and personnel to carry out their activities for the intended jurisdictions. In addition, an increase in claims, surrenders, withdrawals or other cash demands may adversely impact our liquidity position. Volatility, uncertainty or disruptions in the capital or credit markets may further diminish our ability to meet liquidity needs. The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic will depend on numerous factors, all of which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. These factors include the length and severity of the outbreak, the responses of governments and private sector businesses, and the impacts on our customers, employees and vendors. 34 Our reinsurers could default on their obligations or increase their rates, which could adversely impact our net income and financial condition. We cede life, disability, medical and long-term care insurance to other insurance companies through reinsurance. See Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1, Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies.” The collectability of reinsurance recoverables is largely dependent on the solvency of the individual insurers. We remain liable to the policyholder, even if the reinsurer defaults on its obligations with respect to the ceded business. In addition, a reinsurer’s insolvency may cause us to lose our reserve credits on the ceded business, in which case we would be required to establish additional reserves. The premium rates we charge are based, in part, on the assumption that reinsurance will be available at a certain cost. Most of our reinsurance contracts contain provisions that limit the reinsurer’s ability to increase rates on in-force business; however, some do not. If a reinsurer raises the rates it charges on a block of in-force business, our profitability may be negatively impacted if we are not able to pass the increased costs on to the customer. If reinsurers raise the rates they charge on new business, we may be forced to raise the premiums we charge, which could have a negative impact on our competitive position. We face risks related to our acquisition of Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.’s IRT business We may not realize the expected benefits of our acquisition of Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.’s IRT business because of integration difficulties, delays in the transfer of purchased assets or other challenges. On July 1, 2019, we closed the acquisition (the “Acquisition”) of the IRT business of Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (the “Seller”). The success of the Acquisition depends, in part, on our ability to successfully integrate and operate the Acquired Business in conjunction with our existing businesses. The integration process is complex, costly and time-consuming. The potential difficulties of integrating the operations of the Acquired Business include, among others: We may not accomplish the integration of the Acquired Business smoothly, successfully or within the anticipated costs or timeframe. In particular, the transfer to us of many of the purchased assets, including contracts with customers and vendors of the Acquired Business is ongoing, and if the requisite consents of contractual counterparties of the Acquired Business or other third parties are not received, may not be effectuated at all. Furthermore, we are reliant upon the Seller to continue to provide services to the Acquired Business for a transitional period following the closing of the transaction. Any difficulties or delays encountered in combining operations could prevent us from realizing the full benefits anticipated to result from the Acquisition and could adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. In addition, the Acquired Business may not meet our expectations, causing our financial results to differ from our own or the investment community’s expectations. It is possible that the Acquired Business may be adversely affected by regulatory, political, economic, business or competitive factors in the future, which could prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition. The Acquisition may also divert our management’s attention from our current operations to the integration effort, which could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. The obligations and liabilities of the Seller, some of which may be unanticipated or unknown, may be greater than we have anticipated, which may diminish the value of the Acquired Business to us. In connection with the Acquisition, we are assuming certain liabilities of the Seller and its affiliates, including, among others: liabilities arising under the terms (or from the performance) of specified transferred contracts; liabilities arising out of the employment or termination of employment of employees of the Acquired Business and liabilities relating to certain purchased assets. The assumed liabilities may be greater than we have anticipated. The obligations and liabilities of the Seller could have a material adverse effect on the value of the Acquired Business to us or on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have only limited indemnification rights from the Seller under the purchase agreement and ancillary agreements for the Acquisition with respect to obligations or liabilities of the Seller, whether known or unknown. 35 The Acquired Business may present risks that could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition . As a result of the Acquisition, we will for the first time provide trust and custody services for non-retirement plan assets of corporations, foundations, municipalities and other institutions. In addition, as a result of the Acquisition, we will expand the size of the trust and custody services we currently provide to defined contribution 401(k), defined benefit, employee stock ownership and non-qualified plans.  The entry into and expansion of these business lines may present risks and uncertainties that could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition, including adverse customer retention. On an ongoing basis, our bank regulators will closely watch our capability to successfully manage this expansion, and they may compel remediation activities and potentially impose fines if they find our compliance to be insufficient. Trust and custody services include revenues that will vary based on interest rates and customer account balances. A sustained low interest rate environment may adversely affect our revenue, and, accordingly, negatively impact our results of operations. Trust and custody services primarily are also a fee-based business, and fees for such trust and custody services may be based on the market value of assets in customers’ accounts; the volume of transactions processed and fees for other services rendered. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital markets; weak economic conditions and/or declines in the financial markets may decrease our fee-based revenue, which may negatively impact our results of operations. The market for trust and custody business is highly competitive. In the event that competitors charge lower fees for substantially similar trust and custody services, we may face pressure to lower our prices in order to attract and retain customers, and any reductions in the fees we charge for these services may adversely affect our revenue, and, accordingly, negatively impact our results of operations. The Acquired Business involves the risk that clients or others may sue us, claiming that we or third parties for whom they say we are responsible have failed to perform under a contract or otherwise failed to carry out a duty perceived to be owed to them, including perceived fiduciary or contractual duties. This risk may be heightened during periods when credit, equity or other financial markets are deteriorating in value or are particularly volatile, or when clients or investors are experiencing losses. Actions brought against us may result in lawsuits, enforcement actions, injunctions, settlements, damages, fines or penalties, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations or require changes to our business. These risks could result in increased regulatory supervision and affect our ability to attract and retain customers. We face risks arising from future acquisitions of businesses. We have acquired businesses in the past, including the Acquired Business, and expect to continue to do so in the future. We face a number of risks arising from future acquisition transactions, including difficulties in integrating the acquired business into our operations, difficulties in assimilating and retaining employees and intermediaries, difficulties in retaining the existing customers of the acquired entity, unforeseen liabilities that arise in connection with the acquired business, unfavorable market conditions that could negatively impact our growth expectations for the acquired business and sustained declines in the equity market that could reduce the AUM and fee revenues for certain acquired businesses. These risks may prevent us from realizing the expected benefits from future acquisitions and could result in the impairment of goodwill and/or intangible assets recognized at the time of acquisition. For additional information on our goodwill and other intangible assets, see Item 7. “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” General risks A pandemic, terrorist attack, military action or other catastrophic event could adversely affect our operations, net income or financial condition. The occurrence of pandemic disease, man-made disasters such as terrorist attacks and military actions, and natural disasters could adversely affect our operations, net income or financial condition. For example, our mortality and morbidity experience could be adversely impacted by a catastrophic event. In addition, a severe catastrophic event may cause significant volatility in global financial markets, disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. The resulting macroeconomic conditions could adversely affect our cash flows, as well as the value and liquidity of our invested assets. We may also experience operational disruptions if our employees are unable or unwilling to come to work due to a pandemic or other catastrophe. 36 Our financial results may be adversely impacted by global climate changes. Atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases have increased dramatically since the industrial revolution, resulting in a gradual increase in global average temperatures and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. These trends are expected to continue in the future and have the potential to impact nearly all sectors of the economy to varying degrees. We cannot predict the long-term impacts of climate change, but we will continue to monitor new developments in the future. Potential impacts may include the following: Technological and societal changes may disrupt our business model and impair our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers and maintain our profitability. Technological advances, innovation in the financial services industry and societal changes may impact our business model and competitive position. These changes may lead to significant changes in the marketing, distribution, underwriting and pricing of financial services products. In addition, technological and societal changes may lead to changes in customers’ preferences as to how they want to interact with us and the types of products they want to buy. We may need to change our distribution channels, our customer service model or our product offerings to accommodate evolving customer preferences. Implementing these changes may require significant expenditures. To the extent our competitors are more successful than us at adapting to technological changes and evolving customer preferences, our competitive position and profitability may be adversely impacted. Advances in medical technology may also adversely impact our profitability. Increases in the availability and accuracy of genetic testing may increase our exposure to anti-selection risk. In addition, medical advances may lead to increased longevity. As a result, we may be required to pay annuity benefits over a longer period of time than we had projected, thereby reducing the profitability of our annuity products. Damage to our reputation may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our continued success is dependent upon our ability to earn and maintain the trust and confidence of customers, distributors, employees and other stakeholders. Damage to our reputation may arise from a variety of sources including, but not limited to, litigation or regulatory actions, compliance failures, employee misconduct, cybersecurity incidents, unfavorable press coverage and unfavorable comments on social media. Adverse developments within our industry may also, by association, negatively impact our reputation or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny. Any damage to our reputation could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, distributors and employees, potentially leading to a reduction in our revenues and profitability. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. We rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability, which represents a diversion of resources that may be significant in amount and may not prove successful. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce the protection of our intellectual property assets could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. 37 We also may be subject to costly litigation in the event another party alleges our operations or activities infringe upon such other party’s intellectual property rights. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents or other protections that could be infringed by our products, methods, processes or services or could otherwise limit our ability to offer certain product features. Any party that holds such a patent could make a claim of infringement against us. We may also be subject to claims by third parties for breach of copyright, trademark, license usage rights or misappropriation of trade secret rights. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in significant liability for damages. If we were found to have infringed or misappropriated a third party patent or other intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial liability, and in some circumstances could be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or utilizing and benefiting from certain methods, processes, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses, or alternatively could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to attract, develop and retain qualified employees and sales representatives and develop new distribution sources, our results of operations, financial condition and sales of our products may be adversely impacted. Our continued success is largely dependent on our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified employees. We face intense competition in attracting and retaining key employees, including investment, marketing, finance, actuarial, data analytics, information security, technology, client service and other professionals. If we are unable to attract, develop and retain qualified employees, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely impacted. We distribute our asset accumulation, asset management and life and specialty benefit insurance products and services through a variety of distribution channels, including our own internal digital channels, sales representatives, independent brokers, banks, broker-dealers and other third-party marketing organizations. We must attract and retain sales representatives to sell our products and digital professionals to build and enhance our customers’ digital experience. Strong competition exists among financial services companies for these roles. We compete with other financial services companies for sales representatives primarily on the basis of our financial position, support services and compensation and product features. If we are unable to attract and retain sufficient sales representatives to sell our products, our ability to compete and revenues from new sales would suffer. Our ability to increase and retain AUM is directly related to the performance of our investments as measured against market averages and the performance of our competitors. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified portfolio managers, we may face reduced sales and increased cash outflows in our asset accumulation and asset management businesses. Interruptions in information technology, infrastructure or other internal or external systems used for our business operations, or a failure to maintain the confidentiality, integrity or availability of data residing on such systems, could disrupt our business, damage our reputation and adversely impact our profitability. We rely on proprietary information technology and infrastructure capabilities and third-party systems and services to conduct business, including customer service, marketing and sales activities, customer relationship management and producing financial statements. In addition, we store and process confidential and proprietary business information on both company-owned and third party and/or vendor managed systems, including cloud service providers. Financial services companies are regularly targeted by cyber criminals, resulting in unauthorized access to confidential information, theft of funds from online accounts, disruption or degradation of service or other damage. These attacks may take a variety of forms, including web application attacks, denial of service attacks, ransomware, other malware and social engineering, including phishing. We may also be adversely impacted by successful cyberattacks of partners, vendors and others in our supply chain with whom we conduct business or share information. Information security incidents may also occur due to the failure to control access to, and use of, sensitive systems or information by our workforce. The failure of our controls (such as policies, procedures, security controls and monitoring, automation and backup plans) designed to prevent, or limit the effect of, failure, inadvertent use or abuse could result in disruptions or breaches beyond our control. The failure of our information technology, infrastructure or other internal and external systems, for any reason, could disrupt our operations, result in the loss of business and adversely impact our profitability. Any compromise of the security of our systems that results in the disclosure of personally identifiable customer or employee information could damage our reputation, deter customers from purchasing our products and services, expose us to litigation, increase regulatory scrutiny and require us to incur significant technical, legal and other expenses. 38 Loss of key vendor relationships or failure of a vendor to protect information of our customers or employees could adversely affect our business or result in losses. We rely on services and products provided by many vendors in the United States and abroad. These include, for example, vendors of computer hardware and software and vendors of services. In the event that one or more of our vendors suffers a bankruptcy or otherwise becomes unable to continue to provide products or services or fails to protect personal information of our customers or employees, we may suffer operational impairments, reputational damage and financial losses. Our enterprise risk management framework may not be fully effective in identifying or mitigating all of the risks to which we are exposed. We utilize an integrated risk management framework, which is designed to manage material risks within established risk appetites and risk tolerances. Nonetheless, our policies and procedures may not be fully effective in identifying or mitigating every risk to which we are exposed. Many of our methods for managing and mitigating risk rely on models and assumptions that are based, in part, on observed historical data. As a result, these methods may not accurately predict future exposures, which may be significantly greater than our historical measures indicate. We may be exposed to unanticipated risks as a result of changes in market conditions, new products or new business strategies, catastrophes or other unforeseen circumstances. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we may suffer unexpected losses, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following analysis discusses our financial condition as of December 31, 2020, compared with December 31, 2019, our consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 and, where appropriate, factors that may affect our future financial performance. The discussion should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes to the financial statements and the other financial information included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. For information and analysis relating to our financial condition and consolidated results of operations as of and for the year ended December 31, 2018, as well as for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared with the year ended December 31, 2018, see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. Forward-Looking Information Our narrative analysis below contains forward-looking statements intended to enhance the reader’s ability to assess our future financial performance. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that represent our beliefs concerning future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments, and contain words and phrases such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “plan,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend” and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are made based upon management’s current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects on us. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those included in the forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties. Those risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risk factors listed in Item 1A. “Risk Factors.” Overview We provide financial products and services through the following reportable segments: We also have a Corporate segment, which consists of the assets and activities that have not been allocated to any other segment. See Item 1. “Business” for a description of our reportable segments. Economic Factors and Trends Despite a decline in the equity markets in early 2020, a return to positive market performance led to increases in account values in our Retirement and Income Solutions segment and AUM managed by our Principal Global Investors segment. Since account values and AUM are the base by which these businesses generate revenues, market performance volatility may impact our revenues in future quarters. In our Principal International segment, local currency AUM is a key indicator of earnings growth. While local currency AUM increased for the segment, the financial results were negatively impacted by foreign currency fluctuations and the unfavorable relative market performance on our required regulatory investments in our Latin America business. In our U.S. Insurance Solutions segment, premium and fee growth is a key indicator of earnings growth. Rising unemployment as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic may continue to impact new sales in our businesses and reduce in-group growth in our Specialty Benefits insurance business in the short-term. See Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” for information on risks associated with the COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting financial market impacts. Profitability Our profitability depends in large part upon our: 43 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The increasing complexity of the business environment and applicable authoritative accounting guidance requires us to closely monitor our accounting policies. Our significant accounting policies are described in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1, Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies.” We have identified critical accounting policies that are complex and require significant judgment and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. A summary of our critical accounting policies is intended to enhance the reader’s ability to assess our financial condition and results of operations and the potential volatility due to changes in estimates and changes in guidance. The identification, selection and disclosure of critical accounting estimates and policies have been discussed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Valuation and Allowance for Credit Loss of Fixed Income Investments Fixed Maturities. Fixed maturities include bonds, asset-backed securities (“ABS”), redeemable preferred stock and certain non-redeemable preferred securities. We classify our fixed maturities as either AFS or trading and, accordingly, carry them at fair value in the consolidated statements of financial position. Volatility in net income can result from changes in fair value of fixed maturities classified as trading. Volatility in other comprehensive income can result from changes in fair value of fixed maturities classified as AFS. We measure the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities based on assumptions used by market participants in pricing the asset or liability, which may include inherent risk, restrictions on the sale or use of an asset, or nonperformance risk, including our own credit risk. For additional details concerning the methodologies, assumptions and inputs utilized see Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 14, Fair Value Measurements” under the caption, “Determination of Fair Value.” The fair values of our public fixed maturities are primarily based on market prices from third party pricing vendors. We have regular interactions with these vendors to ensure we understand their pricing methodologies and to confirm they are utilizing observable market information. In addition, 8% of our invested asset portfolio as of December 31, 2020, was invested in privately placed fixed maturities with no readily available market quotes to determine the fair market value. The majority of these assets are valued using a matrix pricing valuation approach that utilizes observable market inputs. In the matrix approach, securities are grouped into pricing categories that vary by sector, rating and average life. Each pricing category is assigned a risk spread based on observable public market data. The expected cash flows of the security are then discounted back at the current Treasury curve plus the appropriate risk spread. Although the matrix valuation approach provides a fair valuation of each pricing category, the valuation of an individual security within each pricing category may be impacted by company specific factors. This excludes privately placed securities subject to Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933 that are primarily based on market prices from third party pricing vendors, similar to public fixed maturities. If we are unable to price a fixed maturity security using prices from third party pricing vendors or other sources specific to the asset class, we may obtain a broker quote or utilize an internal pricing model specific to the asset utilizing relevant market information, to the extent available and where at least one significant unobservable input is utilized. These are reflected in Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy and can include fixed maturities across all asset classes. As of December 31, 2020, less than 1% of our total fixed maturities were Level 3 securities valued using internal pricing models. See Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 14, Fair Value Measurements” for further discussion. The $3,213.7 million increase in net unrealized gains from U.S. investment operations for the year ended December 31, 2020, can be attributed to an approximate 97 basis point decrease in interest rates, partially offset by widening of credit spreads. For additional information about interest rate risk see Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” 44 We have a process in place to identify fixed maturity securities that could potentially require an allowance for credit loss. This process involves monitoring market events that could impact issuers’ credit ratings, business climate, management changes, litigation and government actions and other similar factors. This process also involves monitoring late payments, pricing levels, downgrades by rating agencies, key financial ratios, financial statements, revenue forecasts and cash flow projections as indicators of credit issues. Each reporting period, all securities in an unrealized loss position are reviewed to determine whether a decline in value is due to credit. Relevant facts and circumstances considered include: (1) the extent the fair value is below cost; (2) the reasons for the decline in value; (3) the financial position and access to capital of the issuer, including the current and future impact of any specific events and (4) for structured securities, the adequacy of the expected cash flows. To the extent we determine an unrealized loss is due to credit, an allowance for credit loss is recognized through a reduction to net income. See item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 4, Investments” under the caption, “Allowance for Credit Loss” for further discussion. A number of significant risks and uncertainties are inherent in the process of monitoring credit losses and determining the allowance for credit loss. These risks and uncertainties include: (1) the risk that our assessment of an issuer's ability to meet all of its contractual obligations will change based on changes in the credit characteristics of that issuer; (2) the risk that the economic outlook will be worse than expected or have more of an impact on the issuer than anticipated; (3) the risk that our investment professionals are making decisions based on fraudulent or misstated information in the financial statements provided by issuers and (4) the risk that new information obtained by us or changes in other facts and circumstances lead us to change our intent to not sell the security prior to recovery of its amortized cost. Any of these situations could result in a charge to net income in a future period. As of December 31, 2020, we had $7,308.5 million in AFS fixed maturities with gross unrealized losses totaling $206.2 million. Included in the gross unrealized losses are losses attributable to both movements in market interest rates as well as movement in credit spreads. Prior to the implementation of authoritative guidance in 2020, fixed maturities classified as AFS were subject to impairment reviews. To the extent we determined a security was deemed to be other than temporarily impaired, an impairment loss was recognized. See item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 4, Investments” under the caption, “Other-Than-Temporary Impairments” for further discussion. Mortgage Loans. Mortgage loans consist primarily of commercial mortgage loans on real estate. Commercial mortgage loans on real estate are generally reported at cost adjusted for amortization of premiums and accrual of discounts, computed using the interest method and net of valuation allowances. We establish a valuation allowance for the risk of credit losses inherent in our mortgage loans, which is maintained at a level believed adequate by management to absorb estimated expected credit losses. The valuation allowance is based on amortized cost excluding accrued interest receivable and includes reserves for pools of financing receivables with similar risk characteristics. Amounts on loans deemed to be uncollectible are charged off and removed from the valuation allowance. The change in the valuation allowance provision is included in net realized capital gains (losses) on our consolidated statements of operations. Prior to the implementation of authoritative guidance in 2020, the valuation allowance for mortgage loans was based on either individual or collective evaluation. For more detailed information concerning mortgage loan valuation allowances, see Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 4, Investments” under the caption, “Financing Receivables Valuation Allowance.” 45 Derivatives We use derivatives primarily to hedge or reduce exposure to market risks. The fair values of exchange-traded derivatives are determined through quoted market prices. Exchange-traded derivatives include futures that are settled daily, which reduces their fair value in the consolidated statements of financial position. The fair values of privately negotiated contracts, which are usually referred to as over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives, that are cleared through centralized clearinghouses are determined through market prices published by the clearinghouses. Variation margin associated with OTC cleared derivatives is settled daily, which reduces their fair value in the consolidated statements of financial position. The fair values of non-cleared OTC derivatives are determined using either pricing valuation models that utilize market observable inputs or broker quotes. On an absolute fair value basis as of December 31, 2020, 99% of our OTC derivative assets and liabilities were valued using pricing valuation models using market observable data and the remaining 1% using broker quotes. See Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 14, Fair Value Measurements” for further discussion. The fair values of our derivative instruments can be impacted by changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit spreads, equity indices and volatility, as well as other contributing factors. For additional information see Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” We also issue certain annuity, universal life and other contracts that include embedded derivatives that have been bifurcated from the host contract. They are valued using a combination of historical data and actuarial judgment. See Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 14, Fair Value Measurements” for further discussion. We include our assumption for own nonperformance risk in the valuation of these embedded derivatives. As our credit spreads widen or tighten, the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities decrease or increase, leading to an increase or decrease in net income. If the current market credit spreads reflecting our own creditworthiness move to zero (tighten), the reduction to net income would be approximately $220.0 million, net of DAC and income taxes, based on December 31, 2020, reported amounts. In addition, the policyholder behavior assumptions used in the valuation of embedded derivatives include risk margins, which increase the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities. The accounting for derivatives is complex and interpretations of the applicable accounting standards continue to evolve. Judgment is applied in determining the availability and application of hedge accounting designations and the appropriate accounting treatment. Judgment and estimates are used to determine the fair value of some of our derivatives. Volatility in net income can result from changes in fair value of derivatives that do not qualify or are not designated for hedge accounting and changes in fair value of embedded derivatives. Deferred Acquisition Costs and Other Actuarial Balances Incremental direct costs of contract acquisition as well as certain costs directly related to acquisition activities (underwriting, policy issuance and processing, medical and inspection and sales force contract selling) for the successful acquisition of new and renewal insurance policies and investment contract business are capitalized to the extent recoverable. Maintenance costs and acquisition costs that are not deferrable are charged to net income as incurred. Amortization Based on Estimated Gross Profits. DAC for universal life-type insurance contracts and certain investment contracts are generally amortized over the expected lifetime of the contracts in relation to estimated gross profits (“EGPs”). In addition to DAC, the following actuarial balances are also amortized in relation to EGPs. We also have additional benefit reserves that are established for annuity or universal life-type contracts that provide benefit features that are expected to produce gains in early years followed by losses in later years. The liabilities are accrued in relation to estimated contract assessments, and they are based on assumptions and methodologies similar to those used in the calculation of EGPs. For more information, see “Insurance Reserves ." 46 Key assumptions used in the calculation of EGPs include mortality, lapses, equity returns, general account investment yields and expenses as well as the change in our liability for certain guarantees and the difference between actual and expected reinsurance premiums and recoveries, depending on the nature of the contract. Our general account investment yield assumption reflects our long-term projections of interest rates and net realized capital gains (losses). We develop an estimate of EGPs at issue and each valuation date. As actual experience and market conditions emerge, the gross profits may vary from those expected either in magnitude or timing, in which case a true-up of actuarial balances occurs as a charge or credit to current net income. In addition, we are required to revise our assumptions regarding future experience if actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier estimates should be revised; we refer to this as unlocking. Both actions, reflecting actual experience and market conditions and changing future estimates, can change both the current amount and the future amortization pattern of the DAC asset and related actuarial balances. For individual variable universal life insurance, individual variable annuities and group annuities that have separate account U.S. equity investment options, we utilize a mean reversion methodology (reversion to the mean assumption), a common industry practice, to determine the future domestic equity market growth rate assumption used for the calculation of EGPs. If actual annualized U.S. equity market performance varies from our 8% long-term assumption, we assume different performance levels in the short-term such that the weighted average return is equal to the long-term assumption over the mean reversion period. However, our mean reversion process generally limits assumed returns to a range of 4-12% during the mean reversion period. For additional details concerning methods of DAC amortization see Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1, Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies” under the caption, “Deferred Acquisition Costs.” Internal Replacements. We review policies for modifications that result in the exchange of an existing contract for a new contract. If the new contract is determined to be an internal replacement that is substantially changed from the replaced contract, any unamortized DAC and related actuarial balances are written off and acquisition costs related to the new contract are capitalized as appropriate. If the new contract is substantially unchanged from the replaced contract, we continue to amortize the existing DAC and related actuarial balances. Recoverability. DAC and sales inducement assets are subject to recoverability testing at the time of policy issue and loss recognition testing on an annual basis, or when an event occurs that may warrant loss recognition. If loss recognition or impairment is necessary, the asset balances are written off to the extent it is determined that future policy premiums and investment income or gross profits are not adequate to cover the balances. Actuarial Assumption Updates. We periodically review and update actuarial assumptions that are inputs to the models for DAC and other actuarial balances and make model refinements as necessary. For more information see “Transactions Affecting Comparability of Results of Operations — Other — Actuarial Assumption Updates .'' Sensitivities. As of December 31, 2020, the net balance of DAC and related actuarial balances, excluding balances affected by changes in other comprehensive income (“OCI”), was a $16.0 million liability. We perform sensitivity analyses to assess the impact that certain assumptions have on these balances. The following table shows the estimated immediate impact of various assumption changes on our DAC and related actuarial balances. ​ Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets include the cost of acquired subsidiaries in excess of the fair value of the net tangible assets recorded in connection with acquisitions. Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized; however, are reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or circumstances change that would more-likely-than-not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value using a discounted cash flow approach. Intangibles that do not have indefinite lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives. We formally conduct our annual goodwill and other intangible asset impairment testing during the third quarter. Goodwill is tested at the reporting unit level, which is the same level as or one level below the operating segment. 47 The operating segments and associated reporting units at which we perform our testing are as follows: Goodwill. U.S. GAAP permits entities to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative impairment test of the two-step goodwill impairment test. An entity also has an unconditional option to bypass the qualitative assessment in any period and proceed directly to performing the quantitative impairment test. We perform qualitative assessments for certain reporting units and we elect to proceed directly to a two-step quantitative test for certain reporting units in our evaluation of the carrying value of goodwill. In the qualitative assessment, all relevant events and circumstances that could affect the significant inputs used to determine the fair value of the reporting unit are assessed. Each assessment uses a five-step approach: determine the starting point, identify the most relevant drivers of fair value, identify events and circumstances, weight the identified factors and conclude. For reporting units that performed a qualitative test, the estimated fair values of all such reporting units were in excess of their carrying values and, therefore, goodwill was not impaired. For reporting units that performed a quantitative test, we concluded the estimated fair values of all such reporting units were in excess of their carrying values and, therefore, goodwill was not impaired. Other Intangible Assets. U.S. GAAP permits entities to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of an intangible asset with an indefinite life is less than its carrying amount to determine whether it is necessary to perform a quantitative assessment. We primarily utilize the qualitative approach for testing of intangible assets with indefinite lives. In doing so, we follow the same qualitative process as for goodwill and weigh the evidence of the events and circumstances and their potential impacts on fair value when determining if it is not more-likely-than-not that the indefinite lived intangible is impaired. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortized as related benefits emerge and are reviewed periodically for indicators of impairment in value. If facts and circumstances suggest possible impairment, the sum of the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset is compared to the current carrying value of the asset. If the undiscounted future cash flows are less than the carrying value, an impairment loss is recognized for the excess of the carrying amount of assets over their fair value. For those assets amortized as related benefits emerge, the most significant assumptions involved in the estimation of future benefits include surrender/lapse rates and margins. We did not recognize an impairment in our 2020 consolidated statement of operations. Sensitivities. In connection with our annual impairment testing process, we performed a sensitivity analysis for goodwill impairment with respect to each of our reporting units and determined that a hypothetical 10% decline in the fair value would not result in an impairment of goodwill for any reporting unit. We cannot predict certain future events that might adversely affect the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets that totaled $1,711.0 million and $1,723.0 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2020. Such events include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on our customer base, interest rate movements, declines in the equity markets, the legal environment in which the businesses operate or a material negative change in our relationships with significant customers. For further information see Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1, Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies,” and “Note 2, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” Insurance Reserves Reserves are liabilities representing estimates of the amounts that will come due, at some point in the future, to or on behalf of our policyholders. U.S. GAAP, allowing for some degree of managerial judgment, provides guidance for establishing reserves. 48 Future policy benefits and claims include reserves for individual traditional and group life insurance, disability, medical and long-term care insurance and individual and group annuities that provide periodic income payments. These reserves are computed using assumptions of mortality, morbidity, lapse, investment performance and expense. These assumptions are based on our experience, industry results, emerging trends and future expectations. For long-duration insurance contracts, once these assumptions are made for a given policy or group of policies, they will not be changed over the life of the policy. However, significant changes in experience or assumptions may require us to provide for expected future losses on a product by establishing premium deficiency reserves. Premium deficiency reserves may also be established for short-duration contracts to provide for expected future losses. Our reserve levels are reviewed throughout the year using internal analysis including, among other things, experience studies, claim development analysis and annual loss recognition analysis. To the extent experience indicates potential loss recognition, we recognize losses on certain lines of business. The ultimate accuracy of the assumptions on these long-tailed insurance products cannot be determined until the obligation of the entire block of business on which the assumptions were made is extinguished. Short-term variances of actual results from the assumptions used in the computation of the reserves are reflected in current period net income and can impact quarter-to-quarter net income. Future policy benefits and claims also include reserves for incurred but unreported disability, medical, dental, vision, critical illness, accident and life insurance claims. We recognize claims costs in the period the service was provided to our policyholders. However, claims costs incurred in a particular period are not known with certainty until after we receive, process and pay the claims. We determine the amount of this liability using actuarial methods based on historical claim payment patterns as well as emerging cost trends, where applicable, to determine our estimate of claim liabilities. We also look back to assess how our prior periods’ estimates developed. To the extent appropriate, changes in such development are recorded as a change to current period claim expense. Historically, the amount of the claim reserve adjustment made in subsequent reporting periods for prior period estimates have been within a reasonable range given our normal claim fluctuations. Future policy benefits and claims also include benefit reserves that are established for annuity or universal life-type contracts that provide benefit features that are expected to produce gains in early years followed by losses in later years. The liabilities are accrued in relation to estimated contract assessments. We periodically review and update actuarial assumptions that are used to compute reserves. For more information see ''Transactions Affecting Comparability of Results of Operations — Other — Actuarial Assumption Updates.'' Benefit Plans The reported expense and liability associated with pension and OPEB plans requires the use of assumptions. Numerous assumptions are made regarding the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, turnover, expected compensation increases, health care claim costs, health care cost trends, retirement rates and mortality. The discount rate and the expected return on plan assets have the most significant impact on the level of expense. The assumed discount rate is determined by projecting future benefit payments inherent in the Projected Benefit Obligation and discounting those cash flows using a spot yield curve for high quality corporate bonds. Our assumed discount rates were 2.50% for our pension plans and 2.10% for our OPEB plans as of December 31, 2020. Typically, a 0.25% decrease in the discount rate would increase the pension benefits Projected Benefit Obligation and the Net Periodic Pension Cost (“NPPC”) by approximately $158.8 million and $2.6 million, respectively. Typically, a 0.25% decrease in the discount rate would increase the OPEB accumulated postretirement benefit obligation by approximately $2.5 million and would have a nominal impact on the Net Periodic Benefit Cost (“NPBC”). Typically, a 0.25% increase in the discount rate would result in decreases in benefit obligations and expenses at a level generally commensurate with those noted above. The assumed long-term rate of return on plan assets is set at the long-term rate expected to be earned based on the long-term investment policy of the plans and the various classes of the invested funds. Historical and future expected returns of multiple asset classes were analyzed to develop a risk-free real rate of return and risk premiums for each asset class. The overall long-term rate for each asset class was developed by combining a long-term inflation component, the real risk-free rate of return and the associated risk premium. A weighted average rate was developed based on long-term returns for each asset class, the plan's target asset allocation policy and the tax structure of the trusts. For the 2020 NPPC and 2020 NPBC, a 5.60% and 4.94% weighted average long-term rate of return was used, respectively. For the 2021 NPPC and 2021 NPBC, a 5.55% and 4.25% weighted average long-term rate of return assumption, respectively, will be used. Typically, a 0.25% decrease in the assumed long-term rate of return would increase the NPPC by approximately $8.2 million and the NPBC by approximately $0.3 million. Typically, a 0.25% increase in this rate would result in a decrease to expense at the same levels. The assumed return on plan assets is based on the fair market value of plan assets as of December 31, 2020. 49 The compensation increase assumption is generally set at a rate consistent with current and expected long-term compensation and salary policy, including inflation. For pension costs, actuarial gains and losses are amortized using a straight-line amortization method over the average remaining service period of plan participants, which is approximately 11 years. For OPEB costs, actuarial gains and losses are amortized using a straight-line amortization method over the average future lifetime of the remaining covered group of retirees, which is approximately 18 years. The qualified pension plan does not utilize the allowable corridor, while the nonqualified pension plan and OPEB plans utilize the 10% corridor. Prior service costs are amortized on a weighted average basis over approximately 7 years for pension costs and 7 years for OPEB costs. See Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 11, Employee and Agent Benefits” for further discussion. Income Taxes We provide for income taxes based on our estimate of the liability for taxes due. Our tax accounting represents management’s best estimate of various events and transactions, such as completion of tax audits or establishment of, or changes to, a valuation allowance associated with certain deferred tax assets, which could affect our estimates and effective income tax rate in a particular quarter or annual period. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates expected to be in effect during the years in which the basis differences reverse. We are required to evaluate the recoverability of our deferred tax assets each quarter and establish a valuation allowance, if necessary, to reduce our deferred tax assets to an amount that is more-likely-than-not to be realizable. In determining the need for a valuation allowance, we consider many factors, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards, taxable income in prior carryback years and implementation of any feasible and prudent tax planning strategies management would employ to realize the tax benefit. U.S. federal and state deferred income taxes have not been provided on approximately $997.4 million of accumulated but undistributed earnings from operations of foreign subsidiaries as of December 31, 2020. We do not record U.S. federal and state deferred income taxes on foreign earnings not expected to be distributed to the U.S. We apply an exception to the general rule, which under U.S. GAAP otherwise requires the recording of U.S. deferred income taxes on the anticipated repatriation of foreign earnings as recognized for financial reporting purposes. The exception permits us to not record a U.S. deferred income tax liability on foreign earnings we expect to be indefinitely reinvested in our foreign operations. The related deferred income taxes will be recorded in the period it becomes apparent we can no longer positively assert some or all the undistributed earnings will remain invested into the foreseeable future. Inherent in the provision for income taxes are estimates and our expectations regarding the deductibility of certain items, the timing of income and expense recognition, future performance and the current or future realization of operating losses, capital losses and certain tax credits. We regularly evaluate the capital needs of our domestic and foreign operations considering all available information, including operating and capital plans, regulatory capital requirements, parent company financing and cash flow needs, as well as tax laws applicable to our domestic and foreign subsidiaries. In the event these estimates differ from our prior estimates due to the receipt of new information, we may be required to significantly change the provision for income taxes recorded in the consolidated financial statements. Any such change could significantly affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements in the year these estimates change. A significant decline in value of financial assets could lead to establishment of a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets having an adverse effect on current and future results. In management’s judgment, total deferred income tax assets are more-likely-than-not to be realized. In addition, the amount of income taxes paid is subject to audits in the U.S. as well as various state and foreign jurisdictions. Tax benefits are recognized for book purposes when the more-likely-than-not threshold is met with regard to the validity of an uncertain tax position. Once this threshold is met, for each uncertain tax position we recognize in earnings the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement with the Internal Revenue Service or other income taxing authorities for audits ongoing or not yet commenced. We had $54.6 million of current income tax receivables associated with outstanding audit issues reported as other assets in our consolidated statements of financial position as of December 31, 2020. We believe there are adequate defenses against, or sufficient provisions for, the contested issues, but final resolution of contested issues could take several years while legal remedies are pursued. Consequently, we do not anticipate the ultimate resolution of audits ongoing or not yet commenced to have a material impact on our net income. 50 See Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 10, Income Taxes” for further discussion. Transactions Affecting Comparability of Results of Operations Acquisitions Wells Fargo IRT Business. On July 1, 2019, we closed on our agreement with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. to acquire its IRT business, which includes defined contribution, defined benefit, nonqualified executive benefit plans, ESOPs, institutional trust and custody and institutional asset advisory businesses. The results of this acquisition are reflected in the Retirement and Income Solutions segment. The purchase price consisted of (i) $1.2 billion cash paid at closing and (ii) an additional earn-out payment of up to $150.0 million, estimated at $0.0 million as of December 31, 2020, based upon the retention of fee revenue of the Acquired Business through December 31, 2020. The transaction was funded with available cash and debt financing. For additional information regarding the debt issuance, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 9, Debt." Other Actuarial Assumption Updates. We periodically review and update actuarial assumptions that are inputs to the models for DAC and other actuarial balances and make model refinements as necessary. Assumption updates and model refinements were made resulting in an unlocking of DAC and other actuarial balances that decreased consolidated net income by $118.2 million and $36.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The following table presents the increase (decrease) to pre-tax operating earnings for each segment. ​ The Individual Life insurance business actuarial assumption updates and model refinements affected several line items within our income statement. The following table presents the increase (decrease) to the Individual Life insurance income statement line items. ​ ​ Other Factors Affecting Comparability Fluctuations in Foreign Currency to U.S. Dollar Exchange Rates Fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates for locations in which we have operations can affect reported financial results. In years when foreign currencies weaken against the U.S. dollar, translating foreign currencies into U.S. dollars results in fewer U.S. dollars to be reported. When foreign currencies strengthen, translating foreign currencies into U.S. dollars results in more U.S. dollars to be reported. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations create variances in our financial statement line items. The most significant impact occurs within our Principal International segment where pre-tax operating earnings were negatively impacted $56.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, as a result of fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates. This impact was calculated by comparing (a) the difference between current year results and prior year results to (b) the difference between current year results and prior year results translated using current year exchange rates for both periods. We use this approach to calculate the impact of exchange rates on all revenue and expense line items. For a discussion of our approaches to managing foreign currency exchange rate risk, see Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk — Foreign Currency Risk.” 51 Effects of Inflation The impact of inflation has not had a material effect on our annual consolidated results of operations over the past three years. However, we may be materially affected by inflation in the future. Variable Investment Income Variable investment income includes certain types of investment returns such as prepayment fees and income (loss) from certain elements of our other alternative asset classes, including results of value-add real estate sales activity. Due to its unpredictable nature, variable investment income may or may not be material to our financial results for a given reporting period and may create variances when comparing different reporting periods. For additional information, see “Investment Results.” Recent Accounting Changes For recent accounting changes, see Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1, Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies” under the caption, “Recent Accounting Pronouncements.” Results of Operations The following table presents summary consolidated financial information for the years indicated: ​ ​ Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2019 Net Income Attributable to Principal Financial Group, Inc. Net income attributable to Principal Financial Group, Inc. increased slightly due to a $299.1 million increase in after-tax realized capital gains (losses), which was largely offset by $82.3 million from higher non-COVID-19 claims in our U.S. Insurance Solutions segment, an $81.7 million more unfavorable impact of actuarial assumption updates and model refinements in 2020 compared to 2019, $51.8 million of higher losses related to the Acquired Business and $38.3 million of lower earnings in our equity method investments in Brazil. For additional information related to the realized capital gains (losses), see “Investments — Investment Results — Net Realized Capital Gains (Losses).” Total Revenues Premiums decreased $1,641.7 million for the Retirement and Income Solutions segment primarily due to lower sales of single premium group and individual annuities with life contingencies. The single premium group annuity product, which is typically used to fund defined benefit plan terminations, can generate large premiums from very few customers and therefore premiums tend to vary from period to period. 52 Fees and other revenues increased $120.4 million for the Retirement and Income Solutions segment primarily due to the Acquired Business. Net investment income in our Latin America business decreased primarily due to $62.5 million of foreign currency headwinds, $39.8 million lower income from our equity method investments in Brazil and $30.5 million unfavorable relative market performance on our required regulatory investments. Net investment income in our U.S. operations increased primarily due to $249.1 million related to higher average invested assets, partially offset by a $231.2 million decrease related to lower rates on fixed maturities and cash and cash equivalents. For additional information, see “Investments — Investment Results – Net Investment Income.” Net realized capital gains (losses) can be volatile due to credit losses from invested assets, mark-to-market adjustments of certain invested assets and our decision to sell invested assets. Net realized capital gains increased primarily due to $209.6 million in gains from derivatives and related hedge activities, $125.1 million increase related to noncredit gains from available-for-sale fixed maturities portfolio rebalancing in 2020, $78.0 million in gains from the sale of real estate investments in 2020 and a $74.0 million impairment of an equity method investment in 2019. These increases were partially offset by a $46.6 million decrease from sponsored investments funds and $35.0 million of lower mark-to-market gains on trading fixed maturities. For additional information, see “Investments — Investment Results — Net Realized Capital Gains (Losses).” Total Expenses Benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $1,628.4 million for the Retirement and Income Solutions segment primarily due to a lower increase in reserves, stemming from lower sales of single premium group and individual annuities with life contingencies. Operating expenses increased $169.1 million for the Retirement and Income Solutions segment primarily related to the Acquired Business. Income Taxes The effective income tax rates were 16% and 15% for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. See Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 10, Income Taxes” under the caption, “Effective Income Tax Rate” for further discussion. Results of Operations by Segment For results of operations by segment see Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 16, Segment Information.” Retirement and Income Solutions Segment Retirement and Income Solutions Trends Several key factors impact revenue and earnings growth in the Retirement and Income Solutions segment. These factors include: the ability of our distribution channels to generate new sales and retain existing business; pricing decisions that take account of competitive conditions, persistency, investment returns, mortality trends, and operating expense levels; investment management performance; equity market returns and interest rate changes. Profitability ultimately depends on our ability to price products and invest assets at a level that enables us to earn a margin over the cost of providing benefits and the expense of acquiring and administering those products. Net revenue is a key metric used to understand Retirement and Income Solutions earnings growth. Net revenue is defined as operating revenues less benefits, claims and settlement expenses less dividends to policyholders. Net revenue from Retirement and Income Solutions – Fee is largely fee based and is impacted by changes in the equity markets and interest rates. Net revenue from Retirement and Income Solutions – Spread is primarily driven by the difference between investment income earned on the underlying general account assets and the interest rate credited to the contracts. 53 The following table presents the Retirement and Income Solutions segment net revenue for the years indicated: ​ (1) Includes net revenue of the Acquired Business since the July 1, 2019, acquisition date. ​ Retirement and Income Solutions Segment Summary Financial Data The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the Retirement and Income Solutions segment for the years indicated: ​ ​ Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2019 Pre-Tax Operating Earnings Pre-tax operating earnings decreased in our Fee business primarily due to a $71.0 million pre-tax loss related to the Acquired Business and a $14.0 million increase in DAC amortization expense stemming from model updates which were unfavorable in 2020 compared to favorable in 2019. These decreases in pre-tax operating earnings were partially offset by a $72.3 million impact associated with actuarial assumption updates and model refinements, which were favorable in 2020 compared to unfavorable in 2019. Pre-tax operating earnings increased in our Spread business primarily due to a $46.6 million impact related to favorable reserve gains, a $34.0 million increase due to growth in the block of business and a $32.1 million impact associated with actuarial assumption updates and model refinements, which were more favorable in 2020 compared to 2019. These increases were slightly offset by an $11.6 million impact stemming from lower sales of individual annuities with life contingencies. Net Revenue Net revenue increased in our Fee business primarily due to a $135.1 million increase related to the Acquired Business and a $91.2 million impact associated with actuarial assumption updates and model refinements, which were favorable in 2020 compared to unfavorable in 2019. Net revenue increased in our Spread business primarily due to a $46.6 million impact related to favorable reserve gains and a $34.0 million increase due to growth in the block of business. The increases were partially offset by a $39.1 million impact stemming from lower sales of individual annuities with life contingencies. 54 Operating Expenses Operating expenses increased in our Fee business primarily due to a $206.1 million increase related to the Acquired Business and an $18.9 million impact associated with actuarial assumption updates and model refinements, which were unfavorable in 2020 compared to favorable in 2019. Operating expenses decreased in our Spread business primarily due to a $27.5 million decrease in non-deferrable commission expense resulting from lower sales of individual annuities with life contingencies and a $20.6 million impact associated with actuarial assumption updates and model refinements, which were more favorable in 2020 compared to 2019. Principal Global Investors Segment Principal Global Investors Trends Our overall AUM increased $43.5 billion in 2020 driven by positive market returns. We continue to expand our global presence and believe we are well positioned to capture changing market conditions and client needs. The following table provides a summary of AUM managed by Principal Global Investors by the business area that sourced or generated the AUM. Principal Global Investors sourced represents institutional and fund platform AUM sourced by Principal Global Investors’ distribution teams. General account represents general account assets of domestic insurance companies and other balance sheet assets. Other affiliated sources represents AUM sourced by other PFG businesses (e.g., separate account assets). ​ ​ Principal Global Investors Segment Summary Financial Data AUM is the base by which we generate management fee revenues. Market performance and net cash flow are the two main drivers of AUM growth. Market performance reflects equity, fixed income, real estate and other alternative investment performance. Net cash flow reflects client deposits and withdrawals. The fee levels on these client deposits and withdrawals are increasingly becoming the more important factor to revenue growth and will vary widely based on business and/or product mix. The following table presents the AUM rollforward for assets managed by Principal Global Investors for the periods indicated: ​ 55 The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the Principal Global Investors segment for the years indicated: ​ ​ Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2019 Pre-Tax Operating Earnings Pre-tax operating earnings increased primarily due to $59.3 million higher management fee revenue as a result of increased average AUM. This was partially offset by a $14.5 million increase in professional fees expense primarily related to a one-time favorable legal settlement in 2019 and a $9.5 million decrease in transaction and borrower fees revenue related to lower activity in 2020 associated with the COVID-19 environment. Principal International Segment Principal International Trends Our Principal International businesses focus on locations with growing middle classes, favorable demographics and increasing long-term savings, ideally with voluntary or mandatory pension markets. With variations depending upon the specific location, we have targeted these markets for sales of retirement and related products and services, including mutual funds, asset management, income annuities and life insurance accumulation products to businesses and individuals. We have pursued our international strategy through a combination of acquisitions, start-up operations and joint ventures, which require infusions of capital consistent with our strategy of long-term growth and profitability. Principal International Segment Summary Financial Data AUM is generally a key indicator of earnings growth for the segment, as AUM is the base by which we can generate local currency profits. The Cuprum business in Chile differs in that the majority of fees are collected with each deposit by the mandatory retirement customers, based on a capped salary level, as opposed to asset levels. Net customer cash flow and market performance are the two main drivers of local currency AUM growth. Net customer cash flow reflects our ability to attract and retain client deposits. Market performance reflects the investment returns on our underlying AUM. Our financial results are also impacted by fluctuations of the foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates for the locations in which we have business. AUM of our foreign subsidiaries is translated into U.S. dollar equivalents at the end of the reporting period using the spot foreign exchange rates. Revenue and expenses for our foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollar equivalents at the average foreign exchange rates for the reporting period. 56 The following table presents the Principal International segment AUM rollforward for the years indicated: ​ Net revenue is a key metric used to understand the earnings growth for the Principal International segment. The following table presents the net revenue of the Principal International segment for the years indicated: ​ ​ The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the Principal International segment for the years indicated: ​ ​ Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2019 ​ Pre-Tax Operating Earnings Pre-tax operating earnings decreased in Latin America primarily due to $60.4 million lower pre-tax operating earnings from our equity method investments in Brazil, $55.8 million foreign currency headwinds and $30.0 million unfavorable relative market performance on our required regulatory investments. 57 Net Revenue Net revenue decreased in Latin America primarily due to $84.4 million foreign currency headwinds, $60.4 million lower pre-tax operating earnings from our equity method investments in Brazil and $30.7 million unfavorable relative market performance on our required regulatory investments. U.S. Insurance Solutions Segment U.S. Insurance Solutions Segment Summary Financial Data Premium and fees are a key metric for growth in the U.S. Insurance Solutions segment. We receive premiums on our specialty benefits insurance products as well as our traditional life insurance products. Fees are generated from our specialty benefits fee-for-service products as well as our universal life, variable universal life and indexed universal life insurance products. We use several reinsurance programs to help manage the mortality and morbidity risk. Premium and fees are reported net of reinsurance premiums. The following table presents the U.S. Insurance Solutions segment premium and fees for the years indicated: ​ ​ The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the U.S. Insurance Solutions segment for the years indicated: ​ Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2019 Pre-Tax Operating Earnings Pre-tax operating earnings in our Specialty Benefits insurance business decreased $58.2 million from higher non-COVID-19 claims, $20.5 million due to favorable actuarial assumption update and model refinements in 2019 and $7.3 million from lower variable investment income. These decreases were partially offset by $15.9 million in favorable COVID-19 related impacts and $10.3 million from growth in the business.  Pre-tax operating earnings in our Individual Life insurance business decreased $181.3 million due to the impact from more unfavorable actuarial assumption updates and model refinements in 2020 compared to 2019, $46.0 million in higher non-COVID-19 claims and $25.6 million in COVID-19 claims. These decreases were partially offset by $28.5 million from expense management and $16.8 million in higher net investment income, partially from higher variable investment income. 58 Operating Revenues Premium and fees in our Specialty Benefits insurance business increased $73.4 million from growth in the business, offset by $35.8 million in dental premium credits associated with COVID-19. Premium and fees in our Individual Life insurance business decreased $77.8 million due to less favorable actuarial assumption updates and model refinements in 2020 compared to 2019 and $12.9 million related to surrenders from a small block of indexed universal life policies, largely related to COVID-19. These decreases were offset by $73.2 million from growth in the business. Net investment income increased $79.7 million from growth in invested assets mostly offset by $68.9 million from lower yields. Total Expenses Benefits claims and settlement expenses in our Specialty Benefits insurance business increased $58.2 million from higher non-COVID-19 claims and $44.4 million associated with growth in the business. This increase was partially offset by $51.7 million due to COVID-19, resulting in lower claims activity, largely as a result of temporary dental and vision office closures and restrictions. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses in our Individual Life insurance business increased $107.0 million due to more unfavorable actuarial assumption updates and model refinements in 2020 compared to 2019, $53.1 million from growth in the business, $46.0 million of higher non-COVID-19 claims and $25.6 million in COVID-19 claims. Operating expenses in our Specialty Benefits insurance business increased $23.7 million due to growth and $22.9 million due to favorable actuarial assumption updates and model refinements in 2019. Operating expenses in our Individual Life insurance business decreased $28.5 million from expense management, largely offset by a $23.7 million increase due to growth in the business. Corporate Segment Corporate Segment Summary Financial Data The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the Corporate segment for the years indicated: ​ ​ Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2019 Pre-Tax Operating Losses Pre-tax operating losses decreased primarily due to expense decreases, including a $24.5 million decrease in strategic initiatives funded by the Corporate segment and a $20.9 million decrease in pension and OPEB expenses. 59 Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity and capital resources represent the overall strength of a company and its ability to generate strong cash flows, borrow funds at a competitive rate and raise new capital to meet operating and growth needs. We are in a strong capital and liquidity position as we face the uncertain, volatile and potentially material adverse economic disruptions to our business brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic. We are monitoring our liquidity closely and feel confident in our ability to meet all long-term obligations to customers, policyholders and debt holders. Our sources of strength include our laddered long-term debt maturities with the next maturity not until 2022, access to revolving credit facility and contingent funding arrangements, a strong risk-based capital position and our available cash and liquid assets. The combination of these financial levers will enable us to manage through this period of economic volatility. Our legal entity structure has an impact on our ability to meet cash flow needs as an organization. Following is a simplified organizational structure. Liquidity Our liquidity requirements have been and will continue to be met by funds from consolidated operations as well as the issuance of commercial paper, common stock, debt or other capital securities and borrowings from credit facilities. We believe the cash flows from these sources are sufficient to satisfy the current liquidity requirements of our operations, including reasonably foreseeable contingencies. We maintain a level of cash and securities which, combined with expected cash inflows from investments and operations, we believe to be adequate to meet anticipated short-term and long-term payment obligations. We will continue our prudent capital management practice of regularly exploring options available to us to maximize capital flexibility, including accessing the capital markets and careful attention to and management of expenses. We perform rigorous liquidity stress testing to ensure our asset portfolio includes sufficient high quality liquid assets that could be utilized to bolster our liquidity position under increasingly stressed market conditions. These assets could be utilized as collateral for secured borrowing transactions with various third parties or by selling the securities in the open market if needed. We also manage liquidity risk by limiting the sales of liabilities with features such as puts or other options that can be exercised at inopportune times. For example, as of December 31, 2020, approximately $10.8 billion, or 99%, of our institutional guaranteed investment contracts and funding agreements cannot be redeemed by contractholders prior to maturity. Our individual annuity liabilities also contain surrender charges and other provisions limiting early surrenders. The following table summarizes the withdrawal characteristics of our domestic general account investment contracts as of December 31, 2020. ​ ​ 60 Universal life insurance and certain traditional life insurance policies are also subject to discretionary withdrawals by policyholders. However, life insurance policies tend to be less susceptible to withdrawal than our investment contracts because policyholders may be subject to a new underwriting process in order to obtain a new life insurance policy. In addition, our life insurance liabilities include surrender charges to discourage early surrenders. We had the following short-term credit facilities with various financial institutions as of December 31, 2020: ​ The revolving credit facilities are committed and available for general corporate purposes. These credit facilities also provide 100% back-stop support for our commercial paper program, of which we had no outstanding balances as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019. Most of the banks supporting the credit facilities have other relationships with us. Due to the financial strength and the strong relationships we have with these providers, we are comfortable we have very low risk the financial institutions would be unable or unwilling to fund these facilities. The Holding Companies: Principal Financial Group, Inc. and Principal Financial Services, Inc. The principal sources of funds available to our parent holding company, PFG, are dividends from subsidiaries as well as its ability to borrow funds at competitive rates and raise capital to meet operating and growth needs. These funds are used by PFG to meet its obligations, which include the payment of dividends on common stock, debt service and the repurchase of stock. The declaration and payment of common stock dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our overall financial condition, results of operations, capital levels, cash requirements, future prospects, receipt of dividends from Principal Life (as described below), risk management considerations and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. No significant restrictions limit the payment of dividends by PFG, except those generally applicable to corporations incorporated in Delaware. Dividends from Principal Life, our primary subsidiary, are limited by Iowa law. Under Iowa law, Principal Life may pay dividends only from the earned surplus arising from its business and must receive the prior approval of the Commissioner of Insurance of the State of Iowa (the “Commissioner”) to pay stockholder dividends or make any other distribution if such distribution would exceed certain statutory limitations. Iowa law gives the Commissioner discretion to disapprove requests for distributions in excess of these limitations. Extraordinary dividends include those made, together with dividends and other distributions, within the preceding twelve months that exceed the greater of (i) 10% of statutory policyholder surplus as of the previous year-end or (ii) the statutory net gain from operations from the previous calendar year, not to exceed earned surplus. Based on statutory results for the year ended December 31, 2020, the ordinary stockholder dividend limitation for Principal Life is approximately $932.5 million in 2021. Total stockholder dividends paid by Principal Life to its parent in 2020 were $650.0 million, all of which was extraordinary and approved by the Commissioner. As of December 31, 2020, we had $2,879.5 million of cash and liquid assets held in our holding companies and other subsidiaries, which is available for corporate purposes. This includes assets in excess of targeted statutory capital ratios and immediate working capital needs. Corporate balances held in foreign holding companies meet the indefinite reinvestment exception (see Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 10, Income Taxes”). In 2019, total stockholder dividends paid by Principal Life to its parent were $1,145.0 million, $975.0 million of which was extraordinary and approved by the Commissioner. 61 Operations. Our primary consolidated cash flow sources are premiums from insurance products, pension and annuity deposits, asset management fee revenues, administrative services fee revenues, income from investments and proceeds from the sales or maturity of investments. Cash outflows consist primarily of payment of benefits to policyholders and beneficiaries, income and other taxes, current operating expenses, payment of dividends to policyholders, payments in connection with investments acquired, payments made to acquire subsidiaries, payments relating to policy and contract surrenders, withdrawals, policy loans, interest payments and repayment of short-term debt and long-term debt. Our investment strategies are generally intended to provide adequate funds to pay benefits without forced sales of investments. For a discussion of our investment objectives and strategies, see “Investments.” Cash Flows. All cash flow activity, as reported in our consolidated statements of cash flows, provides relevant information regarding our sources and uses of cash. The following discussion of our operating, investing and financing portions of the cash flows excludes cash flows attributable to the separate accounts. Net cash provided by operating activities was $3,738.6 million and $5,493.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Our insurance business typically generates positive cash flows from operating activities, as premiums collected from our insurance products and income received from our investments exceed acquisition costs, benefits paid, redemptions and operating expenses. These positive cash flows are then invested to support the obligations of our insurance and investment products and required capital supporting these products. Our cash flows from operating activities are affected by the timing of premiums, fees and investment income received and benefits and expenses paid. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was due to lower sales in the pension risk transfer and individual fixed annuities business in 2020 as compared to 2019. Cash provided by operating activities also decreased as a result of fluctuations in receivables and payables associated with the timing of settlements. Net cash used in investing activities was $5,025.8 million and $7,688.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The decrease in cash used in investing activities was primarily due to cash paid for the Acquired Business in 2019. Additionally, cash used in investing activities decreased as a result of portfolio mix variances, including fewer net purchases of fixed maturities available-for-sale and equity securities with intent to hold in 2020. Net cash provided by financing activities was $1,621.1 million and $1,733.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The decrease in cash provided by financing activities was primarily the result of a smaller increase in net banking operation deposits in 2020 as compared to 2019. The increased proceeds from issuance of long-term debt in 2020 was largely offset by increased principal repayments on long-term debt and repayment of short-term borrowings in 2020 as compared to net proceeds from issuance of short-term borrowings in 2019. Shelf Registration. On April 29, 2020, our shelf registration statement was filed with the SEC and became effective. The shelf registration replaced the shelf registration that had been in effect since May 2017. Under our current shelf registration, we have the ability to issue, in unlimited amounts, unsecured senior debt securities or subordinated debt securities, junior subordinated debt, preferred stock, common stock, warrants, depositary shares, purchase contracts and purchase units of PFG. Our wholly owned subsidiary, PFS, may guarantee, fully and unconditionally or otherwise, our obligations with respect to any non-convertible securities, other than common stock, described in the shelf registration. For information on senior notes issued from our shelf registration, see Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 9, Debt.” Short-Term Debt. For short-term debt information, see “Liquidity” and Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 9, Debt.” Long-Term Debt. On June 12, 2020, we issued $500.0 million of senior notes at a discount. On August 3, 2020, we issued an additional $100.0 million of senior notes at a premium. The proceeds from these notes were used for general corporate purposes. See Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 9, Debt” for further information. Contingent Funding Agreements for Senior Debt Issuance. On March 8, 2018, we entered into two contingent funding agreements that give us the right at any time over a ten-year or thirty-year period to issue up to $400.0 million or $350.0 million, respectively, of senior notes. For more information on the contingent funding agreements, see Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 9, Debt” under the caption "Contingent Funding Agreements for Senior Debt Issuance.” Stockholders’ Equity. Proceeds from the issuance of our common stock were $42.8 million and $37.7 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively. 62 The following table summarizes our return of capital to common stockholders. ​ ​ For additional stockholders’ equity information, see Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 13, Stockholders’ Equity.” Capitalization The following table summarizes our capital structure: ​ ​ Contractual Obligations The following table presents payments due by period for long-term contractual obligations as of December 31, 2020. ​ Amounts included in the contractholder funds line item reflect estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders. The sum of the cash outflows shown for all years in the table exceeds the corresponding liability amount included in our consolidated statements of financial position as of December 31, 2020. The liability amount in our consolidated statements of financial position reflects either the account value (in the case of individual fixed annuities, universal life insurance and GICs) or the par value plus accrued interest and other adjustments (in the case of funding agreements and other investment contracts). 63 Pension and OPEB Plan Funding We have defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all of our U.S. employees and certain agents. See Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 11, Employee and Agent Benefits” for a complete discussion of these plans and their effect on the consolidated financial statements. We report the net funded status of our pension and OPEB plans in the consolidated statements of financial position. The net funded status represents the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the projected benefit obligation for pension and OPEB plans. The measurement of the net funded status can vary based upon the fluctuations in the fair value of the plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for the plans as discussed below. The net underfunded status of the pension and OPEB obligation was $164.1 million pre-tax and $134.7 million pre-tax as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Nonqualified pension plan assets are not included as part of the funding status mentioned above. The nonqualified pension plan assets are held in Rabbi trusts for the benefit of all nonqualified plan participants. The assets held in a Rabbi trust are available to satisfy the claims of general creditors only in the event of bankruptcy. Therefore, these assets are fully consolidated in our consolidated statements of financial position and are not reflected in our funded status as they do not qualify as plan assets under U.S. GAAP. The market value of assets held in these trusts was $394.8 million and $377.8 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Our funding policy for the qualified pension plan is to fund the plan annually in an amount at least equal to the minimum annual contributions required under ERISA and, generally, not greater than the maximum amount that can be deducted for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We do not anticipate contributions will be needed in 2021 to satisfy the minimum funding requirements of ERISA for our qualified pension plan. We are unable to estimate the amount that may be contributed, but it is possible that we may fund the plans in 2021 up to $100.0 million. This includes funding for both our qualified and nonqualified pension plans. We do not anticipate contributing to our OPEB plans in 2021. Effective January 1, 2021, $655.5 million of assets in excess of the expected liability to cover the postretirement medical benefits for retirees were re-designated for non-retiree benefits. The elections were made pursuant to plan provisions which provide for assets in excess of 125% of expected liabilities to fund other benefits covered under the plans. Contractual Commitments We have made commitments to fund certain limited partnerships and other funds in which we are not the general partner or investment manager. As of December 31, 2020, the amount of unfunded commitments was $656.9 million. We are only required to fund additional equity under these commitments when called upon to do so by the partnership or fund; therefore, these commitments are not liabilities on our consolidated statements of financial position. 64 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Variable Interest Entities. We have relationships with various types of special purpose entities and other entities where we have a variable interest as described in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 3, Variable Interest Entities.” We have made commitments to fund certain limited partnerships, as previously discussed in “Contractual Commitments”, some of which are classified as unconsolidated variable interest entities. Guarantees and Indemnifications. As of December 31, 2020, no significant changes to guarantees and indemnifications have occurred since December 31, 2019. For guarantee and indemnification information, see Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 12, Contingencies, Guarantees, Indemnifications and Leases” under the caption, “Guarantees and Indemnifications.” Financial Strength and Credit Ratings Our ratings are influenced by the relative ratings of our peers/competitors as well as many other factors including our operating and financial performance, capital levels, asset quality, liquidity, asset/liability management, overall portfolio mix, financial leverage (i.e., debt), risk exposures, operating leverage and other factors. A.M. Best, Fitch, and Moody’s have published their U.S. life insurance industry outlooks for 2021, which remain ‘negative’, citing economic uncertainty, investment performance and persistently low interest rates. S&P Global’s 2021 industry outlook remains ‘stable’. In November 2020, Moody’s affirmed the ‘A1’ financial strength ratings of Principal Life and Principal National Life Insurance Company (“PNLIC”). Moody’s also affirmed PFG’s senior unsecured debt at ‘Baa1’, which is guaranteed by PFS. The outlook for PFG, Principal Life and its affiliates has been changed to ‘positive’ from ‘stable’. The outlook revision is due to good profitability and relatively strong financial flexibility. In May 2020, Fitch affirmed the ‘AA-’ financial strength ratings of Principal Life and PNLIC. Fitch also affirmed PFG’s senior unsecured debt at ‘A-’. The outlook on all ratings was revised from ‘stable’ to ‘negative’. The outlook revision is due to the disruption to economic activity and the financial markets from the COVID-19 pandemic. In April 2020, S&P affirmed the financial strength rating of Principal Life and PNLIC at ‘A+’. S&P also affirmed the issuer credit ratings of PFG and PFS at ‘A-‘. The outlook on all ratings changed from ‘stable’ to ‘negative’. The ratings outlook reflects weaker earnings potential and capital adequacy as a result of the global recession. In February 2020, A.M. Best affirmed the financial strength ratings of Principal Life and PNLIC at ‘A+’. The outlook remains ‘stable’ for all financial strength ratings. The affirmation reflects the strength of our consolidated statement of financial positions as well as our strong operating performance, favorable business profile and very strong enterprise risk management. Concurrently, A.M. Best upgraded the Long-Term Issuer credit ratings. The ratings upgrade reflects the continued strengthening and evolution of our enterprise risk management capabilities. The outlook for the Long-Term Issuer credit rating was revised to ‘stable’ from ‘positive’. The following table summarizes our significant financial strength and debt ratings from the major independent rating organizations. A rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities. Such a rating may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. ​ ​ Impacts of Income Taxes For income tax information, see Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 10, Income Taxes.” 65 Fair Value Measurement Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (an exit price). The fair value hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into three levels. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority (Level 1) to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities and gives the lowest priority (Level 3) to unobservable inputs. The level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement in its entirety falls is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety considering factors specific to the asset or liability. See Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 14, Fair Value Measurements” for further details, including a reconciliation of changes in Level 3 fair value measurements. As of December 31, 2020, 41% of our net assets (liabilities) were Level 1, 56% were Level 2 and 3% were Level 3. Excluding separate account assets as of December 31, 2020, 3% of our net assets (liabilities) were Level 1, 97% were Level 2 and 0% were Level 3. As of December 31, 2019, 41% of our net assets (liabilities) were Level 1, 55% were Level 2 and 4% were Level 3. Excluding separate account assets as of December 31, 2019, 3% of our net assets (liabilities) were Level 1, 97% were Level 2 and 0% were Level 3. Changes in Level 3 Fair Value Measurements Net assets (liabilities) measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) as of December 31, 2020, were $8,812.6 million as compared to $9,191.0 million as of December 31, 2019. The decrease was primarily related to net sales in our separate account assets, net transfers of certain structured fixed maturities out of Level 3 into Level 2 and investment and universal life contract embedded derivative losses largely due to market impacts. These decreases were partially offset by gains in our separate account assets. Investments We had total consolidated assets as of December 31, 2020, of $296,627.7 million, of which $106,306.9 million were invested assets. The rest of our total consolidated assets are comprised primarily of separate account assets for which we do not bear investment risk; therefore, the discussion and financial information below does not include such assets. Overall Composition of Invested Assets Invested assets as of December 31, 2020, were predominantly high quality and broadly diversified across asset class, individual credit, industry and geographic location. Asset allocation is determined based on cash flow and the risk/return requirements of our products. As shown in the following table, the major categories of invested assets are fixed maturities and commercial mortgage loans. ​ 66 Investment Results Net Investment Income The following table presents the yield and investment income, excluding net realized capital gains and losses, for our invested assets for the years indicated. We calculate annualized yields using a simple average of asset classes at the beginning and end of the reporting period. The yields for available-for-sale fixed maturities are calculated using amortized cost. All other yields are calculated using carrying amounts. ​ ​ Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2019 Net investment income from fixed maturities increased primarily due to higher average invested assets and prepayments, partially offset by lower yields in our U.S. operations. Net investment income from equity securities decreased primarily due to unfavorable relative market performance on our required regulatory investments in our Latin America business. Net investment income from cash and cash equivalents decreased primarily due to decreases in federal fund rates tied to our short-term investments. Net investment income from other investments decreased primarily due to foreign currency headwinds and lower income from our equity method investments in Brazil. Net Realized Capital Gains (Losses) The following table presents the contributors to net realized capital gains and losses for the years indicated. ​ 67 Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2019 Fixed maturities, available-for-sale and trading – noncredit increased due to noncredit gains related to portfolio rebalancing in 2020, partially offset by lower mark-to-market gains on trading fixed maturities. Net realized losses on derivatives and related hedge activities increased primarily due to lower losses on the GMWB embedded derivatives, including changes in the spread reflecting our own creditworthiness, and related hedging instruments and increased gains on interest rate swaps not designated as hedging instruments due to changes in interest rates. Additionally, our Principal International segment had net realized capital gains on currency derivatives in 2020 compared to net realized capital losses in 2019 due to changes in exchange rates. Other gains increased primarily due to gains on the sale of real estate investments in 2020 and an impairment of an equity method investment in 2019. These increases were partially offset by decreased gains from sponsored invested funds. U.S. Investment Operations Of our invested assets, $97,831.1 million were held by our U.S. operations as of December 31, 2020. Our U.S. invested assets are managed primarily by our Principal Global Investors segment. Our Investment Committee, appointed by our Board of Directors, is responsible for establishing investment policies and monitoring risk limits and tolerances. Our primary investment objective is to maximize after-tax returns consistent with acceptable risk parameters. We seek to protect customers’ benefits by optimizing the risk/return relationship on an ongoing basis, through asset/liability matching, reducing credit risk, avoiding high levels of investments that may be redeemed by the issuer, maintaining sufficiently liquid investments and avoiding undue asset concentrations through diversification. We are exposed to two primary sources of investment risk: Our ability to manage credit risk is essential to our business and our profitability. We devote considerable resources to the credit analysis of each new investment. We manage credit risk through industry, issuer and asset class diversification. A dedicated committee, comprised of senior investment professional staff members, approves the credit rating for the fixed maturities we purchase. We have teams of security analysts, organized by industry and asset class, that analyze and monitor these investments. Investments held in the portfolio are monitored on a continuous basis with a formal review annually or more frequently if material events affect the issuer. The analysis includes both fundamental and technical factors. The fundamental analysis encompasses both quantitative and qualitative analysis of the issuer. The qualitative analysis includes an assessment of both accounting and management aggressiveness of the issuer. In addition, technical indicators such as stock price volatility and credit default swap levels are monitored. We regularly review our investments to determine whether we should re-rate them, employing the following criteria: We purchase credit default swaps to hedge certain credit exposures in our investment portfolio. We economically hedged credit exposure in our portfolio by purchasing credit default swaps with a notional amount of $125.0 million and $75.0 million as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively. We sell credit default swaps to offer credit protection to investors when entering into synthetic replicating transactions. When selling credit protection, if there is an event of default by the referenced name, we are obligated to pay the counterparty the referenced amount of the contract and receive in return the referenced security. For further information on credit derivatives sold, see Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 5, Derivative Financial Instruments” under the caption, “Credit Derivatives Sold.” 68 Our use of derivatives exposes us to counterparty risk, or the risk that the counterparty fails to perform the terms of the derivative contract. We actively manage this risk by: We manage our exposure on a net basis, whereby we net positive and negative exposures for each counterparty with agreements in place. For further information on derivative exposure, see Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 4, Investments” under the caption, “Balance Sheet Offsetting.” A dedicated risk management team is responsible for centralized monitoring of the commercial mortgage loan portfolio. We apply a variety of strategies to minimize credit risk in our commercial mortgage loan portfolio. When considering new commercial mortgage loans, we review the cash flow fundamentals of the property, make a physical assessment of the underlying commercial real estate, conduct a comprehensive market analysis and compare against industry lending practices. We use a proprietary risk rating model to evaluate all new and substantially all existing loans within the portfolio. The proprietary risk model is designed to stress projected cash flows under simulated economic and market downturns. Our lending guidelines are typically 75% or less loan-to-value ratio and a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.2 times. We analyze investments outside of these guidelines based on cash flow quality, tenancy and other factors. The following table presents loan-to-value and debt service coverage ratios for our brick and mortar commercial mortgage loans: ​ ​ We also seek to manage call or prepayment risk arising from changes in interest rates. We assess and price for call or prepayment risks in all of our investments and monitor these risks in accordance with asset/liability management policies. The amortized cost and weighted average yield, calculated using amortized cost, of non-structured fixed maturity securities that will be callable at the option of the issuer, excluding securities with a make-whole provision, were $9,372.5 million and 4.0%, respectively, as of December 31, 2020, and $3,135.5 million and 3.7%, respectively, as of December 31, 2019. In addition, the amortized cost and weighted average yield of RMBS, residential collateralized mortgage obligations, and asset-backed securities - home equity with material prepayment risk were $6,122.7 million and 3.0%, respectively, as of December 31, 2020, and $7,318.7 million and 3.1%, respectively, as of December 31, 2019. Our investment decisions and objectives are a function of the underlying risks and product profiles of each primary business operation. In addition, we diversify our product portfolio offerings to include products that contain features that will protect us against fluctuations in interest rates. Those features include adjustable crediting rates, policy surrender charges and market value adjustments on liquidations. For further information on our management of interest rate risk, see Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk – Interest Rate Risk.” 69 Overall Composition of U.S. Invested Assets As shown in the following table, the major categories of U.S. invested assets are fixed maturities and commercial mortgage loans. The following discussion analyzes the composition of U.S. invested assets, but excludes invested assets of the separate accounts. ​ Fixed Maturities Fixed maturities include bonds, ABS, redeemable preferred stock and certain non-redeemable preferred securities. Included in the privately placed category as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, were $18.6 billion and $17.7 billion, respectively, of securities subject to certain holding periods and resale restrictions pursuant to Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933. Fixed maturities were diversified by category of issuer, as shown in the following table for the years indicated. ​ ​ We believe it is desirable to hold residential mortgage-backed pass-through securities due to their credit quality and liquidity as well as portfolio diversification characteristics. Our portfolio is comprised of Government National Mortgage Association, Federal National Mortgage Association and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation pass-through securities. In addition, our residential collateralized mortgage obligation portfolio offers structural features that allow cash flows to be matched to our liabilities. We purchase CMBS to diversify the overall credit risks of the fixed maturities portfolio and to provide attractive returns. The primary risks in holding CMBS are structural and credit risks. Structural risks include the security’s priority in the issuer’s capital structure, the adequacy of and ability to realize proceeds from the collateral and the potential for prepayments. Credit risks involve collateral and issuer/servicer risk where collateral and servicer performance may deteriorate. CMBS are predominantly comprised of large pool securitizations that are diverse by property type, borrower and geographic dispersion. The risks to any CMBS deal are determined by the credit quality of the underlying loans and how those loans perform over time. Another key risk is the vintage of the underlying loans and the state of the markets during a particular vintage. 70 Similar to CMBS, we purchase ABS for diversification and to provide attractive returns. The primary risks in holding ABS are also structural and credit risks, which are similar to those noted above for CMBS. Our ABS portfolio is diversified by type of asset, issuer, and vintage. We actively monitor holdings of ABS to recognize adverse changes in the risk profile of each security. Prepayments in the ABS portfolio are, in general, insensitive to changes in interest rates or are insulated from such changes by call protection features. In the event we are subject to prepayment risk, we monitor the factors that impact the level of prepayment and prepayment speed for those ABS. In addition, we hold a diverse class of securities, which limits our exposure to any one security. The international exposure held in our U.S. operation’s fixed maturities portfolio was 16% of total fixed maturities as of December 31, 2020 and 18% as of December 31, 2019. It is comprised of corporate and foreign government fixed maturities. The following table presents the carrying amount of our international exposure for our U.S. operation’s fixed maturities portfolio for the years indicated. ​ International fixed maturities exposure is determined by the country of risk of the obligor entity for the year ended December 31, 2020. Prior to December 31, 2020, international fixed maturities exposure was determined by the country of domicile of the parent entity. All international fixed maturities held by our U.S. operations are either denominated in U.S. dollars or have been swapped into U.S. dollar equivalents. Our international investments are analyzed internally by country and industry credit investment professionals. We control concentrations using issuer and country level exposure benchmarks, which are based on the credit quality of the issuer and the country. Our investment policy limits total international fixed maturities investments and we are within those internal limits. Exposure to Canada is not included in our international exposure. As of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, our investments in Canada totaled $2,037.9 million and $2,111.9 million, respectively. Fixed Maturities Credit Concentrations. One aspect of managing credit risk is through industry, issuer and asset class diversification. Our credit concentrations are managed to established limits. The following table presents our top ten exposures as of December 31, 2020. ​ ​ 71 Fixed Maturities Valuation and Credit Quality. Valuation techniques for the fixed maturities portfolio vary by security type and the availability of market data. The use of different pricing techniques and their assumptions could produce different financial results. See Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 14, Fair Value Measurements” for further details regarding our pricing methodology. Once prices are determined, they are reviewed by pricing analysts for reasonableness based on asset class and observable market data. Investment analysts who are familiar with specific securities review prices for reasonableness through direct interaction with external sources, review of recent trade activity or use of internal models. All fixed maturities placed on the “watch list” are periodically analyzed by investment analysts. These analysts periodically meet with the Chief Investment Officer and the Portfolio Managers to determine reasonableness of the analysts’ prices. The valuation of bonds for which a credit loss exists and there is no quoted price is typically based on relative value analysis and the present value of the future cash flows expected to be received. Although we believe these values reasonably reflect the fair value of those securities, the key assumptions about risk premiums, performance of underlying collateral (if any) and other market factors involve qualitative and unobservable inputs. The Securities Valuation Office (“SVO”) of the NAIC monitors the bond investments of insurers for regulatory capital and reporting purposes and, when required, assigns securities to one of six categories referred to as NAIC designations. Although NAIC designations are not produced to aid the investment decision making process, NAIC designations may serve as a reasonable proxy for Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations’ (“NRSRO”) credit ratings for certain bonds. For most corporate bonds, NAIC designations 1 and 2 include bonds generally considered investment grade by such rating organizations. Bonds are considered investment grade when rated ‘‘Baa3’’ or higher by Moody’s, or ‘‘BBB-’’ or higher by S&P. NAIC designations 3 through 6 include bonds generally referred to as below investment grade. Bonds are considered below investment grade when rated ‘‘Ba1’’ or lower by Moody’s, or ‘‘BB+’’ or lower by S&P. However, for loan-backed and structured securities, as defined by the NAIC, the NAIC designation is not always a reasonable indication of an NRSRO rating as described below. For CMBS and non-agency RMBS, Blackrock Solutions undertakes the modeling of those NAIC designations. This may result in a final designation being higher or lower than the NRSRO credit rating. The following table presents our total fixed maturities by NAIC designation as of the years indicated as well as the percentage, based on fair value, that each designation comprises. ​ ​ Fixed maturities included 59 securities with an amortized cost of $804.6 million, gross gains of $18.1 million, gross losses of $2.9 million and a carrying amount of $819.8 million as of December 31, 2020, that were still pending a review and assignment of a designation by the SVO. Due to the timing of when fixed maturities are purchased, legal documents are filed and the review by the SVO is completed, we will always have securities in our portfolio that are unrated over a reporting period. In these instances, an equivalent designation is assigned based on our fixed income analyst’s assessment. Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities. As of December 31, 2020, based on amortized cost, 88% of our CMBS portfolio had an NAIC designation of 1. 72 The following table presents our exposure by credit quality based on NAIC designations for our CMBS portfolio as of the years indicated. ​ ​ Fixed Maturities Watch List. We monitor any decline in the credit quality of fixed maturities through the designation of “problem securities,” “potential problem securities” and “restructured securities”. We define problem securities in our fixed maturity portfolio as securities: (i) with principal and/or interest payments in default or where default is perceived to be imminent in the near term, or (ii) issued by a company that went into bankruptcy subsequent to the acquisition of such securities. We define potential problem securities in our fixed maturity portfolio as securities included on an internal “watch list” for which management has concerns as to the ability of the issuer to comply with the present debt payment terms and which may result in the security becoming a problem or being restructured. The decision whether to classify a performing fixed maturity security as a potential problem involves significant subjective judgments by our management as to the likely future industry conditions and developments with respect to the issuer. We define restructured securities in our fixed maturity portfolio as securities where a concession has been granted to the borrower related to the borrower’s financial difficulties that would not have otherwise been considered. We determine that restructures should occur in those instances where greater economic value will be realized under the new terms than through liquidation or other disposition and may involve a change in contractual cash flows. If the present value of the restructured cash flows is less than the current cost of the asset being restructured, a realized capital loss is recorded in net income and a new cost basis is established. The following table presents the total carrying amount of our fixed maturities portfolio, as well as its problem, potential problem and restructured fixed maturities for the years indicated. ​ Fixed Maturities Credit Losses. Each reporting period, a group of individuals including the Chief Investment Officer, our Portfolio Managers, the assigned analysts and representatives from Investment Accounting review all securities to determine whether a credit loss exists. The analysis focuses on each issuer’s ability to service its debts in a timely fashion. Formal documentation of the analysis and our decision is prepared and approved by management. For additional details regarding our process to identify and evaluate securities with credit losses, see Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 4, Investments” under the caption “Allowance for Credit Loss.” We would not consider a security with unrealized losses to have a decline in value due to credit when it is not our intent to sell the security, it is not more likely than not that we would be required to sell the security before recovery of the amortized cost, which may be maturity, and we expect to recover the amortized cost basis. However, we do sell securities under certain circumstances, such as when we have evidence of a change in the issuer’s creditworthiness, when we anticipate poor relative future performance of securities, when a change in regulatory requirements modifies what constitutes a permissible investment or the maximum level of investments held or when there is an increase in capital requirements or a change in risk weights of debt securities. Sales generate both gains and losses. 73 A number of significant risks and uncertainties are inherent in the process of monitoring credit losses and determining the allowance for credit loss. These risks and uncertainties include: (1) the risk that our assessment of an issuer’s ability to meet all of its contractual obligations will change based on changes in the credit characteristics of that issuer, (2) the risk that the economic outlook will be worse than expected or have more of an impact on the issuer than anticipated, (3) the risk that our investment professionals are making decisions based on fraudulent or misstated information in the financial statements provided by issuers and (4) the risk that new information obtained by us or changes in other facts and circumstances lead us to change our intent to not sell the security prior to recovery of its amortized cost. Any of these situations could result in a charge to net income in a future period. The net realized loss relating to the change in the allowance for credit loss and credit related sales of fixed maturities was $61.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. The net realized loss relating to other-than-temporary credit impairments and credit related sales of fixed maturities was $43.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. Fixed Maturities Available-for-Sale The following tables present our fixed maturities available-for-sale by industry category, as of the years indicated. ​ ​ 74 Of the $177.2 million in gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2020, $0.4 million in losses were attributed to securities scheduled to mature in one year or less, $6.5 million attributed to securities scheduled to mature between one to five years, $27.2 million attributed to securities scheduled to mature between five to ten years, $52.8 million attributed to securities scheduled to mature after ten years and $90.3 million related to mortgage-backed and other ABS that are not classified by maturity year. As of December 31, 2020, we were in a $7,406.6 million net unrealized gain position as compared to a $4,192.9 million net unrealized gain position as of December 31, 2019. The $3,213.7 million increase in net unrealized gains for the year ended December 31, 2020, can be attributed to an approximate 97 basis points decrease in interest rates, partially offset by widening of spreads. Fixed Maturities Available-For-Sale Unrealized Losses. We believe our long-term fixed maturities portfolio is well diversified among industry types and between publicly traded and privately placed securities. Each year, we direct the majority of our net cash inflows into investment grade fixed maturities. Our current policy is to limit the percentage of fixed maturities invested in below investment grade assets to 15%. We invest in privately placed fixed maturities to enhance the overall value of the portfolio, increase diversification and obtain higher yields than are possible with comparable quality public market securities. Generally, private placements provide broader access to management information, strengthened negotiated protective covenants, call protection features and, where applicable, a higher level of collateral. They are, however, generally not freely tradable because of restrictions imposed by U.S. federal and state securities laws and illiquid trading markets. 75 The following table presents our fixed maturities available-for-sale by investment grade and below investment grade as of the years indicated. ​ ​ The following tables present the carrying amount and the gross unrealized losses on our fixed maturities available-for-sale for which an allowance for credit loss has not been recorded by grade and aging category as of December 31, 2020. ​ ​ ​ 76 ​ The following tables present the carrying amount and the gross unrealized losses, including other-than-temporary impairment losses reported in AOCI, on investment grade fixed maturities available-for-sale by grade and aging category as of December 31, 2019. ​ ​ ​ 77 ​ Mortgage Loans Mortgage loans consist of commercial mortgage loans on real estate and residential mortgage loans. For further details about residential mortgage loans, see Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 4, Investments” under the caption, “Financing Receivables.” Commercial Mortgage Loans. We generally report commercial mortgage loans on real estate at cost adjusted for amortization of premiums and accrual of discounts, computed using the interest method and net of valuation allowances. Commercial mortgage loans play an important role in our investment strategy by: As a result, we have focused on constructing a high quality portfolio of mortgages. Our portfolio is generally comprised of mortgages originated with conservative loan-to-value ratios, high debt service coverages and general purpose property types with a strong credit tenancy. Our commercial mortgage loan portfolio consists primarily of non-recourse, fixed rate mortgages on fully or near fully leased properties. The mortgage portfolio is comprised primarily of office properties, apartments, well anchored retail properties and general-purpose industrial properties. Our commercial mortgage loan portfolio is diversified by geography and specific collateral property type. Commercial mortgage lending in the state of California accounted for 22% and 21% of our commercial mortgage loan portfolio before valuation allowance as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively. We are, therefore, exposed to potential losses resulting from the risk of catastrophes, such as earthquakes, that may affect the region. Like other lenders, we generally do not require earthquake insurance for properties on which we make commercial mortgage loans. With respect to California properties, however, we obtain an engineering report specific to each property. The report assesses the building’s design specifications, whether it has been upgraded to meet seismic building codes and the maximum loss that is likely to result from a variety of different seismic events. We also obtain a report that assesses, by building and geographic fault lines, the amount of loss our commercial mortgage loan portfolio might suffer under a variety of seismic events. The typical borrower in our commercial loan portfolio is a single purpose entity or single asset entity. As of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, the total number of commercial mortgage loans outstanding was 753 and 767, of which 44% and 46% were for loans with principal balances less than $10.0 million, respectively. The average loan size of our commercial mortgage portfolio was $19.9 million and $19.2 million as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively. Commercial Mortgage Loan Credit Monitoring. For further details on monitoring and management of our commercial mortgage loan portfolio, see Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 4, Investments” under the caption, “Financing Receivables Credit Monitoring.” 78 We categorize loans that are 60 days or more delinquent, loans in process of foreclosure and loans with borrowers or credit tenants in bankruptcy that are delinquent as “problem” loans. We categorize loans that are delinquent less than 60 days where the default is expected to be cured and loans with borrowers or credit tenants in bankruptcy that are current as “potential problem” loans. The decision whether to classify a loan delinquent less than 60 days as a potential problem involves significant subjective judgments by management as to the likely future economic conditions and developments with respect to the borrower. We categorize loans for which the original note rate has been reduced below market and loans for which the principal has been reduced as “restructured” loans. We also consider loans that are refinanced more than one year beyond the original maturity or call date at below market rates as restructured. We did not have problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgage loans as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019. Commercial Mortgage Loan Valuation Allowance. We establish the commercial mortgage loan valuation allowance at levels considered adequate to absorb estimated expected credit losses within the portfolio. For further details on the commercial mortgage loan valuation allowance, see Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 4, Investments” under the caption, “Financing Receivables Valuation Allowance.” Real Estate Real estate consists primarily of commercial equity real estate. As of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, the carrying amount of our equity real estate investment was $1,796.1 million and $1,713.5 million, respectively. Our commercial equity real estate is held in the form of wholly owned real estate, real estate acquired upon foreclosure of commercial mortgage loans and majority owned interests in real estate joint ventures. Equity real estate is categorized as either “real estate held for investment” or “real estate held for sale.” Real estate held for investment totaled $1,794.9 million and $1,544.5 million as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively. The carrying value of real estate held for investment is generally adjusted for impairments whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. Such impairment adjustments are recorded as net realized capital losses in our consolidated results of operations. Impairment adjustments recorded for the year ended December 31, 2020, were $0.5 million. Impairment adjustments recorded for the year ended December 31, 2019, were $0.6 million. The carrying amount of real estate held for sale was $1.2 million and $169.0 million as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively. Once we identify a real estate property to be sold and it is probable that it will be sold, we classify the property as held for sale. We establish a valuation allowance subject to periodic revisions, if necessary, to adjust the carrying value of the property to reflect the lower of its current carrying value or the fair value, less associated selling costs. The valuation allowance did not change for the year ended December 31, 2020 or for the year ended December 31, 2019. We use research, both internal and external, to recommend appropriate product and geographic allocations and changes to the equity real estate portfolio. We monitor product, geographic and industry diversification separately and together to determine the most appropriate mix. Equity real estate is distributed across geographic regions of the country. As of December 31, 2020, our largest equity real estate portfolio concentration was in the Pacific (47%) region of the United States. By property type, our largest concentrations were in Apartments (32%), Industrial (30%), and Office (28%) as of December 31, 2020. Other Investments Our other investments totaled $3,214.7 million as of December 31, 2020, compared to $2,841.7 million as of December 31, 2019. Other investments include interests in unconsolidated entities, which include real estate properties owned jointly with venture partners and operated by the partners; sponsored investment funds; the cash surrender value of company owned life insurance; derivative assets and other investments. 79 International Investment Operations Of our invested assets, $8,475.8 million were held by our Principal International segment as of December 31, 2020. The assets are primarily managed by the local Principal International affiliate. Due to the regulatory constraints in each location, each company maintains its own investment policies. As shown in the following table, the major category of international invested assets is fixed maturities. The following table excludes invested assets of the separate accounts. ​ Regulations in certain locations require investment in the funds we manage. These required regulatory investments are classified as equity securities within our consolidated statements of financial position, with all mark-to-market changes reflected in net investment income. Our investment is primarily dictated by client activity and all investment performance is retained by us. ​