********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Discussion of our business and operations included in this annual report on Form 10-K should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. They describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are, or may become, subject. These risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies, or prospects in a material and adverse manner. Risks Associated With Our Industry Increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability, or other increases in the effective costs of owning a home have prevented potential customers from buying our homes and adversely affected our business and financial results. A large majority of our customers finance their home purchases through mortgage loans, many through Pulte Mortgage. Increases in interest rates can adversely affect the market for new homes, as potential homebuyers may be less willing or able to pay the increased monthly costs resulting from higher interest rates or to obtain mortgage financing. Up until 2022, mortgage interest rates in recent years had been at or near historic lows, thereby making new homes more affordable. However, in the second quarter of 2022, in response to the Federal Reserve's increases to the federal funds rate as part of their effort to reduce inflation, mortgage rates increased, reaching their highest levels since 2008. As a result, we began to experience lower than 9 expected signups and traffic, as well as an increase in cancellation rates, during the second half of 2022 and into the first half of 2023. Ongoing volatility in interest rates may continue to negatively impact our operations and financial results. A decrease in the availability of mortgage financing generally could also adversely impact the market for new homes, which could result from lenders increasing the qualifications needed for mortgages or adjusting their terms to address any increased credit risk. Even if potential customers do not need financing, changes in interest rates and mortgage availability could make it harder for them to sell their current homes to potential buyers who need financing. These factors could adversely affect the sales or pricing of our homes and could also reduce the volume or margins in our financial services business. Our financial services business could also be impacted to the extent we are unable to match interest rates and amounts on loans we have committed to originate through the various hedging strategies we employ. These developments have historically had, and may in the future have, a material adverse effect on the overall demand for new housing and thereby on the results of operations of our business. The liquidity provided by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to the mortgage industry is also critical to the housing market. The impact of the federal government’s conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac on the short-term and long-term demand for new housing remains unclear. Any limitations or restrictions on the availability of financing by these agencies could adversely affect interest rates, mortgage financing, and our sales of new homes and mortgage loans. Additionally, the availability of FHA and VA mortgage financing, which is subject to the same interest rate and lending term risks, is an important factor in marketing some of our homes, and reduced availability of these financing options could negatively impact our results of operations. The homebuilding industry is cyclical and deteriorations in industry conditions or downward changes in general economic or other business conditions have historically affected our business and financial results and could do so in the future. The residential homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other factors, such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, product affordability, availability of financing, inflation, and interest rate levels. Adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in the markets where we operate, could decrease demand and pricing for new homes in these areas and result in customer cancellations of pending contracts, which could adversely affect the number of home deliveries we make or reduce the prices we can charge for homes, either of which could result in a significant decrease in our revenues and earnings that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. For example, beginning in 2006 and continuing through 2011, the U.S. housing market was unfavorably impacted by severe weakness in new home sales attributable to, among other factors, weak consumer confidence, tightened mortgage standards, significant foreclosure activity, a more challenging appraisal environment, higher than normal unemployment levels, and significant uncertainty in the global economy. During this period, we incurred significant losses, including impairments of our land inventory and certain other assets, and some aspects of the housing industry have yet to return to pre-2007 production levels. Beginning in 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic also impacted our business and resulted in a significant slowdown in our business and impacts to our financial results, followed by historically high inflation, increased interest rates and weaker economic conditions all of which impacted the affordability of our homes and consumer sentiment. Inflation has resulted in increased costs that we may not be able to recoup. Inflation can adversely affect us by increasing costs of land, materials, and labor. In addition, significant inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which recently have had a negative impact on demand for our homes. In an inflationary environment like the one we are currently experiencing, economic conditions and other market factors may make it difficult for us to raise home prices enough to keep up with the rate of inflation, which could reduce our profit margins or reduce the number of consumers who can afford to purchase one of our homes. We are currently experiencing heightened labor and materials prices which have resulted primarily from increased demand and inflationary monetary policy stemming from the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in early 2020. These factors have increased our operational costs in recent periods, and if the current inflationary environment continues or worsens, we may not be able to adjust the pricing we charge for homes to offset these increased costs in the future, which would adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. Supply shortages and other risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials have and could continue to increase costs and delay deliveries. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive for skilled labor. Labor shortages have continued to limit the availability of construction labor. Additionally, the supply of certain building materials, especially lumber, wood-based materials such as roof and floor trusses and oriented strand boards, steel, resin, concrete, copper, and petroleum-based materials, is limited and has been impacted by the combination of strong consumer demand, disruptions in the global supply chain caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, and major weather events at the point of manufacture of certain products. Supply constraints can also be further 10 exacerbated by government policies which make it more difficult and/or expensive for suppliers to produce materials needed for our business. These factors, along with the consolidation of ownership of the source of supply for certain building materials, have resulted in increases to the prices of some materials. Increased costs and shortages of labor and materials can cause increases in construction costs, and construction delays. We may not be able to pass on increases in construction costs to customers and generally are unable to pass on any such increases to customers who have already entered into sales contracts as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the home at the time the contract is signed, which may be well in advance of the construction of the home. Sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our margins, and pricing competition may restrict our ability to pass on any such additional costs, thereby decreasing our margins. Our success depends on our ability to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding in accordance with our land investment criteria. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive for suitable land. The availability of finished and partially finished lots and undeveloped land for purchase that meet our internal criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices, zoning, allowable housing density, and other regulatory requirements. Should suitable lots or land become less available, the number of homes we may be able to build and sell could be reduced, and the cost of land could be increased, perhaps substantially, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Our long-term ability to build homes depends on our acquiring land suitable for residential building at reasonable prices in locations where we want to build. We experience significant competition for suitable land as a result of land constraints in many of our markets. As competition for suitable land increases, and as available land is developed, the cost of acquiring suitable land could rise, and the availability of suitable land at acceptable prices may decline. Any land shortages or any decrease in the supply of suitable land at reasonable prices could limit our ability to develop new communities or result in increased land costs. We may not be able to pass through to our customers any increased land costs, which could adversely impact our revenues, earnings, and margins. If the market value of our land drops significantly, our profits could decrease and result in write-downs of the carrying values of land we own. The market value of land can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing market conditions, and the measures we employ to manage inventory risk may not be adequate to insulate our operations from a severe drop in inventory values. We acquire land for expansion into new markets and for replacement of land inventory and expansion within our current markets. If housing demand decreases below what we anticipated when we acquired our inventory, we may not be able to make profits similar to what we have made in the past, we may experience less-than-anticipated profits, and/or we may not be able to recover our costs when we sell and build homes. When market conditions are such that land values are not appreciating, land option arrangements previously entered into may become less desirable, at which time we may elect to forgo deposits and pre-acquisition costs and terminate the agreements. In the face of adverse market conditions, we may have substantial inventory carrying costs, we may have to write down our inventory to its fair value, and/or we may have to sell land or homes at a loss. At times we have been required to record significant write-downs of the carrying value of our land inventory and we have elected not to exercise options to purchase land, even though that required us to forfeit deposits and write-off pre-acquisition costs. If market conditions were to deteriorate in the future, we could elect not to execute additional options and again be required to record significant write downs to our land inventory, which would decrease the asset values reflected on our balance sheet and could materially and adversely affect our earnings and our shareholders' equity. Competition for homebuyers could reduce our deliveries or decrease our profitability. The U.S. housing industry is highly competitive. Homebuilders compete for homebuyers in each of our markets with numerous national, regional, and local homebuilders on the basis of location, price, quality, reputation, design, community amenities, and our customers' overall sales and homeownership experiences. This competition with other homebuilders could reduce the number of homes we deliver or cause us to accept reduced margins to maintain sales volume. We also compete with resales of existing or foreclosed homes, housing speculators, and available rental housing. Increased competitive conditions in the residential resale or rental market in the regions where we operate could decrease demand for new homes or unfavorably impact pricing for new homes. 11 Government regulations could increase the cost and limit the availability of our development and homebuilding projects or affect our related financial services operations and adversely affect our business or financial results. Our operations are subject to building, safety, environmental, and other regulations imposed and enforced by various federal, state, and local governing authorities. New housing developments may also be subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets, and other public improvements. These assessments have increased over recent years as other funding mechanisms have decreased, causing local governing authorities to seek greater contributions from homebuilders. All of these factors have caused and could in the future cause an increase in the effective cost of our homes. We also are subject to a variety of local, state, and federal laws and regulations concerning protection of health, safety, and the environment. The impact of environmental laws varies depending upon the prior uses of the building site or adjoining properties and may be greater in areas with less supply where undeveloped land or desirable alternatives are less available. These matters may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance, remediation and other costs, and could prohibit or severely restrict development and homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas. More stringent requirements could be imposed in the future on homebuilders, developers, and financial services companies, thereby increasing the cost of compliance. Our financial services operations are also subject to numerous federal, state, and local laws and regulations. These include eligibility requirements for participation in federal loan programs and compliance with consumer lending and similar requirements such as disclosure requirements, prohibitions against discrimination, and real estate settlement procedures. They also subject our operations to examination by applicable agencies, pursuant to which those agencies may limit our ability to provide mortgage financing or title services to potential purchasers of our homes. For our homes to qualify for FHA or VA mortgages, we must satisfy valuation standards and site, material, and construction requirements of those agencies. Homebuilding is subject to warranty and other claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. As a homebuilder, we are subject to home warranty, construction defect, and other claims arising in the ordinary course of business. We rely on subcontractors to perform the actual construction of our homes and, in some cases, to select and obtain building materials. Despite our detailed specifications and quality control procedures, in limited cases, subcontractors may use improper construction processes or defective materials. In such cases, it can result in the need to perform repairs to homes. We record warranty and other reserves relating to the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes built. We have, and require our subcontractors to have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation, and other business insurance. These insurance policies protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured per occurrence and aggregate retentions, deductibles, and available policy limits. In certain instances, we may offer our subcontractors the opportunity to purchase insurance through one of our captive insurance subsidiaries or participate in a project-specific insurance program sponsored by us. Policies issued by our captive insurance subsidiaries represent self-insurance of these risks by us. We reserve for costs to cover our self-insured and deductible amounts under these policies and for any costs of claims and lawsuits based on an analysis of our historical claims, which includes an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. Our insurance coverage, our subcontractor arrangements, and our reserves may not be adequate to address all our warranty and construction defect claims in the future, and there is typically a lag between our payment of claims and reimbursements from applicable insurance carriers. Contractual indemnities can be difficult to enforce, we may be responsible for applicable self-insured retentions, and some types of claims may not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits. Additionally, the coverage offered by and the availability of general liability insurance for construction defects are costly and limited. There can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted or become more costly. Additionally, we are exposed to counterparty default risk related to our subcontractors, our insurance carriers, and our subcontractors’ insurance carriers. We can be injured by improper acts of persons over whom we do not have control or by the attempt to impose liabilities or obligations of third parties on us. Although we expect all of our subcontractors, employees, officers, and directors to comply at all times with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, there may be instances in which subcontractors or others through whom we do business engage in practices that do not comply with applicable laws, regulations, or governmental guidelines. When we learn of practices that do not comply with applicable laws, regulations, or government guidelines, including practices relating to homes, buildings, or multifamily properties we build or finance, we move to stop the non-complying practices as soon as possible, and we have 12 taken disciplinary action regarding subcontractors and employees of ours who were aware of non-complying practices and did not take steps to address them, including in some instances terminating their employment or engagement. However, regardless of the steps we take after we learn of practices that do not comply with applicable laws, regulations, or government guidelines, we can in some instances be subject to fines or other governmental penalties, and our reputation can be injured, due to the practices having taken place. The homes we sell are built by employees of subcontractors and other contract parties. We do not have the ability to control what these contract parties pay their employees or subcontractors or the work rules they impose on their employees or subcontractors. However, various governmental agencies have attempted to hold contract parties like us responsible for violations of wage and hour laws and other work-related laws by firms whose employees are performing contracted services. Governmental rulings or changes in state or local laws that make us responsible for labor practices by our subcontractors could create substantial exposures for us in situations that are not within our control. Natural disasters, severe weather conditions and changing climate patterns could delay deliveries, increase costs, and decrease demand for new homes in affected areas. Our homebuilding operations are located in many areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather. The occurrence of natural disasters or severe weather conditions can delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories, reduce the availability of materials, and negatively impact the demand for new homes in affected areas. For instance, in recent years, hurricanes have caused significant disruptions in Florida and our Southeastern markets but did not result in a material impact to our results of operations. In addition, the increased prevalence of forest fires in recent years in our western markets has caused disruptions to our sales operations and development delays, and significant weather events have contributed to plant closures and transportation delays that have exacerbated stress on our supply chain. Furthermore, if our insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our earnings, liquidity, or capital resources could be adversely affected. The impact of climate change and climate change or other governmental regulation may adversely impact our business. In addition to more frequent extreme weather events, global climate change can also impact our operations through extensive governmental policy developments and shifts in consumer sentiment which have the potential individually or collectively to significantly disrupt our business as well as negatively affect our suppliers, independent contractors and customers. For instance, the requirement to modify our home designs mandated by upgraded building codes or recommended practices given a region’s particular exposure to climate conditions can increase our costs, which we may not be able to recoup by increasing the price of our homes. Government restrictions, standards, or regulations intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions or potential climate change impacts are also likely to result in restrictions on land development in certain areas and may increase energy, transportation, or raw material costs, which could reduce our housing gross profit margins and adversely affect our results of operations. For example, as the risk of flooding in coastal and other flood prone areas increases or the results of climate change result in water scarcity, local governments may increase the requirements on new home builders for zoning approvals and restrict areas where new homes may be built, resulting in increased development costs and greater competition for more desirable land parcels. In addition, as local governmental authorities and utilities are required to spend increasing amounts of their resources responding to and remediating weather and climate-related events, their ability to provide approvals and service to new housing communities may be impaired. Risks Related to Our Business Model and Capital Structure Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our access to capital and cost of capital. The capital and credit markets can experience significant volatility. We may need credit-related liquidity for the future development of our business and other capital needs. Without sufficient liquidity, we may not be able to purchase additional land or develop land, which could adversely affect our financial results. At December 31, 2023, we had cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash of $1.8 billion as well as $937.3 million available under our revolving credit facility ("Revolving Credit Facility"). However, our internal sources of liquidity and Revolving Credit Facility may prove to be insufficient, and, in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Another source of liquidity is our ability to use letters of credit and surety bonds relating to certain performance-related obligations and as security for certain land option agreements and insurance programs. The majority of these letters of credit and surety bonds are in support of our land development and construction obligations to various municipalities, other government agencies, and utility companies related to the construction of roads, sewers, and other infrastructure. At 13 December 31, 2023, we had outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds totaling $312.7 million and $2.4 billion, respectively. These letters of credit are generally issued via our unsecured Revolving Credit Facility, which contains certain financial covenants and other limitations. If we are unable to obtain letters of credit or surety bonds when required, or the conditions imposed by issuers increase significantly, our liquidity, and cost of operations could be adversely affected. Our income tax provision and tax reserves may be insufficient if a taxing authority is successful in asserting positions that are contrary to our interpretations and related reserves, if any. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and our reserves for federal, state, and local taxes. In the ordinary course of business, there may be matters for which the ultimate outcome is uncertain. Our evaluation of our tax matters is based on a number of factors, including relevant facts and circumstances, applicable tax law, correspondence with tax authorities during the course of audits, and effective settlement of audit issues. Although we believe our approach to determining the tax treatment for such items is appropriate, no assurance can be given that the final tax authority review will not be materially different than that which is reflected in our income tax provision and related tax reserves. Such differences could have a material adverse effect on our income tax provision in the period in which such determination is made and, consequently, on our financial position, cash flows, or net income. We are periodically audited by various federal, state, and local authorities regarding tax matters. Our current audits are in various stages of completion; however, no outcome for a particular audit can be determined with certainty prior to the conclusion of the audit, appeal, and, in some cases, litigation process. As each audit is concluded, adjustments, if any, are recorded in our financial statements in the period determined. To provide for potential tax exposures, we consider a variety of factors, including relevant facts and circumstances, applicable tax law, correspondence with taxing authorities, and effective settlement of audit issues. If these reserves are insufficient upon completion of an audit, there could be an adverse impact on our financial position, cash flows, and results of operations. We may not realize our deferred tax assets. As of December 31, 2023, we had deferred tax assets of $89.5 million, against which we provided a valuation allowance of $24.8 million. The ultimate realization of our deferred tax assets is dependent upon generating future taxable income. While we have recorded valuation allowances against certain of our deferred tax assets, the valuation allowances are subject to change as facts and circumstances change. Our ability to utilize net operating losses (“NOLs”) and other tax attributes to offset our future taxable income or income tax would be limited if we were to undergo an “ownership change” within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (the “IRC”). An "ownership change" under Section 382 of the IRC would establish an annual limitation to the amount of NOLs and other tax attributes we could utilize to offset our taxable income or income tax in any single year. The application of these limitations might prevent full utilization of the deferred tax assets. To preserve our ability to utilize NOLs and other tax attributes in the future without a Section 382 limitation, we adopted a shareholder rights plan, which is triggered upon certain transfers of our securities, and amended our by-laws to prohibit certain transfers of our securities. Our shareholder rights plan, as amended, expires June 1, 2025, unless our Board of Directors and shareholders approve an amendment to extend the term prior thereto. Notwithstanding the foregoing measures, there can be no assurance that we will not undergo an ownership change within the meaning of Section 382. In addition, our shareholder rights plan may adversely affect the marketability of our common stock, because any non-exempt third party that acquires shares of our common stock in excess of the applicable threshold would suffer substantial dilution of its ownership interest. The value of our deferred tax assets and liabilities are also dependent upon the tax rates expected to be in effect at the time they are realized. A change in enacted corporate tax rates in our major jurisdictions, especially the U.S. federal corporate tax rate, would change the value of our deferred taxes, which could be material. Our inability to sell mortgages into the secondary market could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes unless we are willing to become a long-term investor in loans we originate. We sell substantially all of the residential mortgage loans we originate within a short period in the secondary mortgage market. If we were unable to sell loans into the secondary mortgage market or directly to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, we would have to either (a) curtail our origination of residential mortgage loans, which, among other things, could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes, or (b) commit our own funds to long-term investments in mortgage loans, which, in addition to requiring 14 us to deploy substantial amounts of our own funds, could delay the time when we recognize revenues from home sales on our statements of operations. We are subject to claims related to mortgage loans we sold in the secondary mortgage market that may be significant. Our mortgage operations may be responsible for losses arising out of claims associated with mortgage loans originated and sold to investors in the event of errors or omissions relating to certain representations and warranties made by us that the loans met certain requirements, including representations as to underwriting standards, the type of collateral, the existence of primary mortgage insurance, and the validity of certain borrower representations in connection with the loan.  To date, the significant majority of these claims made by investors against our mortgage operations relate to loans originated prior to 2009, during which time inherently riskier loan products became more common in the origination market. We may also be asked to indemnify underwriters that purchased and securitized loans originated by a former subsidiary of Centex Corporation ("Centex"), which we acquired in 2009, for losses incurred by investors in those securitized loans based on similar breaches of representations and warranties. The resolution of claims related to alleged breaches of these representations and warranties and repurchase claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Given the unsettled nature of these claims, changes in values of underlying collateral over time, and other uncertainties regarding the ultimate resolution of these claims, actual costs could differ from our current estimates. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that such reserves will not need to be increased in the future. General Risk Factors Information technology failures or data security breaches could harm our business and result in substantial costs. We use information technology and other computer resources to carry out important operational activities and to maintain our business records. Our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches (through cyber-attacks from computer hackers and sophisticated organizations), catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, usage errors by our employees, or cyber-attacks or errors by third party vendors who could gain access to our confidential data or that of our customers, vendors, or employees. In particular, the frequency, severity and novelty of cyber-attacks on companies has increased in recent years, including significant ransomware attacks and foreign attacks on prominent companies and computer software programs, as threat actors become increasingly sophisticated and employ techniques, including malicious uses of artificial intelligence such as deepfakes, to launch attacks that are increasingly difficult to detect and defend against. We, like many organizations, have experienced and expect to continue to experience varying degrees of cybersecurity incidents in the course of our business, including phishing and social engineering intrusions which could lean, in turn, to ransomware attacks or other incidents that could impact our business. While to our knowledge we have not experienced a significant cybersecurity incident that has materially affected our business strategy, results of operations or financial condition, and we are continuously working to improve our information technology systems and provide employee awareness training around phishing, malware, and other cyber risks to enhance our levels of protection, to the extent possible, against cyber risks and security breaches, and to enhance our monitoring to prevent, detect, contain, address and mitigate the risk of unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses and other events that could have an impact on our business, there is no assurance that advances in computer capabilities, new technologies, methods or other developments will detect or prevent security breaches and safeguard access to proprietary or confidential information or otherwise prevent material consequences for our business and reputation. If our computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged, breached, or cease to function properly, or if there are intrusions or failures of critical infrastructure such as the power grid or communications systems, we could suffer extended interruptions in our operations. Any such disruption could damage our reputation, result in lost customers, lost revenue and market value declines, lead to legal proceedings against us by affected third parties resulting in penalties or fines and require us to incur significant costs to remediate or otherwise resolve these issues. In addition to direct cyber-attacks on, or other disruptions of, our systems, cyber-attacks on, or other disruptions of, the systems of our suppliers, financial service companies, service providers and other parties on which we rely to conduct our business can result in their inability to provide services to us and impact our ability to conduct our business in the ordinary course. Breaches of our computer or data systems, including those operated by third parties on our behalf, could also result in the unintended public disclosure or the misappropriation of our proprietary information or personal and confidential information, 15 about our employees, customers and business partners, requiring us to incur significant expense to address and resolve. Improper conduct by our employees who have access to such information could also result in the misuse of such information. The misappropriation and/or release of confidential information may also lead to legal or regulatory proceedings against us by affected individuals and the outcome of such proceedings could include penalties or fines and require us to incur significant costs to remediate or otherwise resolve. Depending on its nature, a particular breach or series of breaches of our systems may result in the unauthorized use, appropriation or loss of confidential or proprietary information on a one-time or continuing basis, which may not be detected for a period of time. The costs of maintaining adequate protection and insurance against such threats, as they develop in the future (or as legal requirements related to data security increase), could be material. While we currently have insurance coverage for losses incurred as a result of cyber-attacks, there is no assurance that future coverage will not be restricted or become more costly. In addition, there is no assurance that any such insurance would make us whole for any losses incurred by our Company. If we suffer cybersecurity incidents or data security issues in the future, we could suffer material liabilities, our reputation could be materially damaged, and our operations could be materially disrupted. Negative publicity could negatively impact sales, which could cause our revenues or results of operations to decline. Our business strategy relies heavily on our reputation and brands, which are critical to our success. Unfavorable media or investor and analyst reports related to our industry, company, brand, marketing, personnel, operations, business performance, or prospects may affect our stock price and the performance of our business, regardless of their accuracy or inaccuracy. Furthermore, the speed at which negative publicity is disseminated has increased dramatically through the use of electronic communication, including social media outlets, websites and other digital platforms. Our success in maintaining and enhancing our brand depends on our ability to adapt to this rapidly changing media environment. Adverse publicity or negative commentary from any media outlets could damage our reputation and reduce the demand for our homes, which would adversely affect our business. We can also be affected by poor relations with the residents of communities we develop because efforts made by us to resolve issues or disputes that may arise in connection with the operation or development of their communities, or in connection with the transition of a homeowners association, could be deemed unsatisfactory by the affected residents and subsequent actions by these residents could adversely affect sales or our reputation. In addition, we could decide or be required to make material expenditures related to the settlement of such issues or disputes, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The loss of the services of members of our senior management or a significant number of our operating employees could negatively affect our business. Our success depends upon the skills, experience, and active participation of our senior management, many of whom have been with the Company for a significant number of years. If we were to lose members of our senior management, we might not be able to find appropriate replacements on a timely basis, and our operations could be negatively affected. Also, the loss of a significant number of operating employees in key roles or geographies where we are not able to hire qualified replacements could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have significant intangible assets. If these assets become impaired, then our profits and shareholders’ equity may be reduced. We have significant intangible assets related to business combinations. If the carrying value of intangible assets is deemed impaired, the carrying value is written down to fair value. This would result in a charge to our earnings. If management’s expectations of future results and cash flows decrease significantly, impairments of intangible assets may occur. Our business was materially and adversely disrupted by the outbreak and worldwide spread of COVID-19 and could be materially and adversely disrupted by another epidemic or pandemic like COVID-19, or similar public threat, or fear of such an event, and the measures that international, federal, state and local governments, agencies, law enforcement and/or health authorities implement to address it. Any epidemic, pandemic, or similar serious public health issue, and the measures undertaken by governmental authorities to address it, could significantly disrupt or prevent us from operating our business in the ordinary course for an extended period. As a result, the impact of such public health issues and the related governmental actions could have a significant adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements. 16 For instance, in 2020, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a pandemic, resulting in federal, state and local governments and private entities mandating various restrictions, including the closures of non-essential businesses for a period of time. These restrictions had an adverse impact on our business beginning in the spring of 2020. As effective treatment and mitigation measures for COVID-19 advanced, economic activity gradually resumed and demand for new homes improved significantly. The effects of the pandemic on economic activity, combined with the strong demand for new homes, caused many disruptions to our supply chain and shortages in certain building components and materials, as well as labor shortages. Some of those conditions continue to impact our operations and financial performance as have the impact of COVID-19 on the broader economy. For instance, pervasive inflation incurred in part by COVID-19 resulted in federal financial policies which increased mortgage interest rates resulting in a significant impact to our business. Our operational and financial performance could be impacted by a pandemic, including a resurgence in the COVID-19 pandemic and any containment or mitigation measures put in place as a result of the resurgence, all of which are highly uncertain, unpredictable and outside our control.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Overview The demand for new homes declined beginning in mid-2022 as the Federal Reserve repeatedly increased benchmark interest rates in response to inflation, which, in turn, drove national mortgage and other interest rates higher and negatively impacted home affordability and consumer sentiment. Despite the higher mortgage interest rates that continued through most of 2023, demand for new homes began to strengthen in early 2023, weakened in the fall with continued mortgage interest rate volatility, and then gained momentum to end the year as mortgage interest rates moderated. For the full year, we experienced an increase in our net new orders of 23% in 2023 from 2022. The overall demand for new homes strengthened as the result of a continuing limited supply of existing home inventories in combination with the market adjusting to the higher interest rate environment. While affordability challenges for housing remain due to the higher interest rates, cost increases, and general inflation in recent years, we have responded by adjusting sales prices where necessary and focusing sales incentives on closing cost incentives, especially mortgage interest rate buydowns, which have supported the increase in our net new orders. Additionally, the rate of customer order cancellations that spiked in 2022 in response to inflation and interest rate increases has now normalized to historical levels. Supply chain constraints that began after the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic improved in 2022 and 2023, which has contributed to a shortening of our production cycle times. The time required to construct a home was approximately six weeks shorter at the end of 2023 compared to the end of 2022, and we experienced sequential improvement throughout 2023. However, production cycle times remain elevated versus our historical norms as the availability of certain materials and construction labor remain challenged along with ongoing, though lessened, delays in municipal approvals and inspections. Despite the recent improvements, the noted supply chain and labor issues have led to significant cost pressures in almost all areas of our business, but especially labor and materials costs related to the development of our land inventory and the construction of our homes. Lumber, in particular, has experienced heightened volatility in recent years. Due to the length of our construction cycle times, there is a lag between when such cost changes occur and when they impact our operating results. During 2023 and 2022, through a combination of cost reduction initiatives, construction pacing and sales strategies which took advantage of periods of strong consumer demand, we were able to largely offset the majority of such cost increases through the sales prices of our homes. As the business slowed in the second half of 2022, we adjusted business practices to support a consistent cadence of house starts and an appropriate inventory of quick move-in homes as we focused on turning our assets and delivering high returns on investment. By achieving an effective balance of price and pace, we realized strong revenues and earnings in 2023. Within an evolving macroeconomic environment, consumers across all buyer segments and price points continued to demonstrate a strong desire for homeownership. As a result, we increased our housing starts throughout 2023. As interest rates continued to increase during 2023, buyer demand slowed slightly but strengthened again during the fourth quarter as a result of a recent decrease in mortgage interest rates. We remain focused on taking a measured approach to our capital allocation strategy to effectively respond to future volatility in demand. Accordingly, we are focused on protecting liquidity and closely managing our cash flows while also continuing to focus on shareholder returns, including the following actions: – Increasing our lot optionality within our land pipeline for increased flexibility; – Producing sufficient levels of spec inventory (houses without customer orders) to service buyers seeking to close within 30 to 90 days; – Maintaining a focus on shareholder return through share buybacks and dividends, including a 25% increase in our dividends from $0.16 to $0.20 per share effective with our January 2024 dividend payment; – Taking an opportunistic approach to repurchasing debt; and – Maintaining ample liquidity. Although higher mortgage interest rates may persist for some time, the supply of both new and existing homes for sale remains limited, and demographics supporting housing demand remain favorable. We remain confident in our ability to navigate this environment and to position the Company to take advantage of opportunities as they arise and support future growth. 21 The following tables and related discussion set forth key operating and financial data for our Homebuilding and Financial Services operations as of and for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022. For similar operating and financial data and discussion of our fiscal 2022 results compared to our fiscal 2021 results, refer to Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under Part II of our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, which was filed with the SEC on February 6, 2023. The following is a summary of our operating results by line of business ($000's omitted, except per share data): 22 Homebuilding Operations The following is a summary of income before income taxes for our Homebuilding operations ($000’s omitted): (a) All periods reflect the reclassification of closing cost incentives from home sale cost of revenues to home sale revenues ( ). (b) Includes the amortization of capitalized interest. (c) Includes insurance reserve reversals of $130.8 million and $65.0 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. (d) Equity income from unconsolidated entities includes a gain of $49.1 million in 2022 related to a property sale in an unconsolidated entity in Northern California. (e) Percentage not meaningful. (f) See "Other income (expense), net" for a table summarizing significant items ( ). (g) Net new order dollars represent a composite of new order dollars combined with other movements of the dollars in backlog related to cancellations and change orders. 23 Home sale revenues Home sale revenues for 2023 were higher than 2022 by $50.6 million. The increase was attributable to a 2% increase in average selling price partially offset by a 2% decrease in closings. The increase in average selling price reflected the impact of continued consumer demand and persistent inflation, partially offset by an increase in the mix of first-time buyer homes, which typically carry a lower sales price, and higher sales incentives in substantially all of our markets. The year-over-year increase in average selling price occurred in the majority of our markets. The decrease in closings during 2023 was primarily attributable to 2022 benefiting from a larger beginning backlog due to heightened demand during 2021 combined with a sharp decrease in net new orders in the fourth quarter of 2022 in response to the aforementioned sharp increase in mortgage interest rates. Home sale gross margins Home sale gross margins were 29.3% in 2023, compared with 30.1% in 2022. Gross margins remained strong in both 2023 and 2022 relative to historical levels. Generally, we were able to maintain pricing to substantially offset increases in house and land costs as a result of continued consumer demand combined with the low supply of new and existing homes for sale. Land sale and other revenues We periodically elect to sell parcels of land to third parties in the event such assets no longer fit into our strategic operating plans or are zoned for commercial or other development. Land sale and other revenues and their related gains or losses vary between periods, depending on the timing of land sales and our strategic operating decisions. Land sales and other revenues contributed income of $17.5 million and $23.2 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. SG&A SG&A as a percentage of home sale revenues was 8.4% and 8.9% in 2023 and 2022, respectively. The gross dollar amount of our SG&A decreased $68.6 million, or 5%, in 2023 compared with 2022. This decrease is primarily attributable to lower insurance costs as a result of favorable claims experience partially offset by other overhead costs to support the higher number of active communities. Other income (expense), net Other income (expense), net includes the following ($000’s omitted): The higher write-offs of deposits and pre-acquisition costs in 2022 occurred primarily in the second half of 2022 as we made decisions to terminate a number of land option agreements due to the aforementioned sharp decrease in demand that began in mid-2022 but then recovered in 2023. Interest income increased significantly in 2023 as the result of significantly higher returns on invested cash balances due to the elevated interest rate environment. Net new orders Net new orders in units increased 23% in 2023 compared with 2022, while net new orders in dollars increased by 12% compared with 2022. The increased net new order volume in 2023 was primarily due to improved demand combined with better availability of quick move-in speculative homes. Net new orders in dollars increased a smaller amount than the increase in units as the result of both an increase in the mix of first-time buyer homes, which typically carry a lower sales price, and higher sales incentives in substantially all of our markets. The annual cancellation rate (canceled orders for the period divided by gross new orders for the period) decreased to 16% in 2023 compared to 19% in 2022. Cancellation rates began to increase in mid-2022 as the market responded to increased home affordability challenges resulting from a historic increase in mortgage interest rates, increases in the price of homes, and the impact of inflationary pressures in the broader economy. Ending backlog dollars, which 24 represents orders for homes that have not yet closed, decreased 5% in 2023 compared with 2022, as a result of improved production cycle times. Homes in production The following is a summary of our homes in production at December 31, 2023 and 2022: The number of homes in production at December 31, 2023 was 5% lower compared to December 31, 2022. This decrease resulted from the lower order backlog caused by the lower number of sold homes and higher cancellations in the second half of 2022 following the significant increase in mortgage interest rates. This decrease was partially offset by an increased number of completed unsold homes, which reflected our strategic decision to increase starts of speculative units in response to buyer demand for quick move-in homes. 25 Controlled lots The following is a summary of our lots under control at December 31, 2023 and 2022: While competition for well-positioned land is robust, we have continued to pursue land investments that we believe can achieve appropriate risk-adjusted returns on invested capital. We have also continued to seek to maintain a high percentage of our lots that are controlled via land option agreements as such contracts enable us to defer acquiring portions of properties owned by third parties or unconsolidated entities until we have determined whether and when to exercise our option, which reduces our financial risks associated with long-term land holdings. The remaining purchase price under our land option agreements totaled $6.4 billion at December 31, 2023. Homebuilding Segment Operations Our homebuilding operations represent our core business. Homebuilding offers a broad product line to meet the needs of homebuyers in our targeted markets. As of December 31, 2023, we conducted our operations in 46 markets located throughout 26 states. For reporting purposes, our Homebuilding operations are aggregated into six reportable segments: We also have a reportable segment for our financial services operations, which consist principally of mortgage banking, title, and insurance agency operations. The Financial Services segment operates generally in the same markets as the Homebuilding segments. 26 The following table presents selected financial information for our reportable Homebuilding segments: (a) All periods reflect the reclassification of closing cost incentives to home sale revenues from home sale cost of revenues ( ). (b) Includes land-related charges as summarized in the following land-related charges table ( and ). (c) West includes a gain of $49.1 million in 2022 related to a property sale in an unconsolidated entity in Northern California. (d)    Other homebuilding includes corporate interest income, the amortization of intangible assets, the amortization of capitalized interest, and other items not allocated to the operating segments. Also includes insurance reserve reversals of $130.8 million and $65.0 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively ( ). 27 The following table presents additional selected financial information for our reportable Homebuilding segments: 28 The following table presents additional selected financial information for our reportable Homebuilding segments: *    Land-related charges include land impairments, net realizable value adjustments for land held for sale, and write-offs of deposits and pre-acquisition costs. Other homebuilding consists primarily of write-offs of capitalized interest resulting from land-related charges. See and to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of these charges. Northeast: For 2023, Northeast home sale revenues decreased 9% compared with 2022 due to a 12% decrease in closings partially offset by a 4% increase in average selling price. The decrease in closings occurred across the majority of markets, while the increase in average selling price occurred across all markets. Income before income taxes decreased 11%, primarily due to decreased closings and revenues in the Northeast Corridor. Net new orders increased across all markets. Southeast: For 2023, Southeast home sale revenues decreased 3% compared with 2022 due to a 5% decrease in average selling price partially offset by a 2% increase in closings. The decrease in average selling price and increase in closings occurred across the majority of markets. Income before income taxes decreased 10%, primarily due to decreased revenues and gross margins across the majority of markets. Net new orders increased across the majority of markets. Florida: For 2023, Florida home sale revenues increased 22% compared with 2022 due to a 12% increase in closings combined with a 9% increase in average selling price. The increase in closings occurred across the majority of markets while the increase in average selling price occurred across all markets. Income before income taxes increased 29%, primarily due to increased revenues and gross margins across all markets. Net new orders increased across the majority of markets. Midwest: For 2023, Midwest home sale revenues decreased 9% compared with 2022 due to a 14% decrease in closings partially offset by a 5% increase in average selling price. The decrease in closings occurred across the majority of markets while the increase in average selling price occurred across all markets. Income before income taxes increased 1%, primarily due to the increase in average selling price across all markets, partially offset by the closing volume decline across the majority of markets. Net new orders increased across all markets. 29 Texas: For 2023, Texas home sale revenues decreased 6% compared with 2022 due to a 7% decrease in closings partially offset by a 1% increase in average selling price. The decrease in closings occurred across all markets while the increase in average selling price occurred across the majority of markets. Income before income taxes decreased 16%, primarily due to decreased revenues and gross margins across all markets. Net new orders increased across the majority of markets. West: For 2023, West home sale revenues decreased 7% compared with 2022 primarily due to a 4% decrease in closings combined with a 4% decrease in average selling price. The decrease in closings and average selling price occurred across the majority of markets. Income before income taxes decreased 39%, primarily due to decreased revenues and gross margins across the majority of markets. Results for 2022 also included a gain of $49.1 million related to a property sale in an unconsolidated entity in Northern California. Net new orders increased across all markets. Financial Services Operations We conduct our Financial Services operations, which include mortgage banking, title, and insurance agency operations, through Pulte Mortgage and other subsidiaries. In originating mortgage loans, we initially use our own funds, including funds available pursuant to credit agreements with third parties. Substantially all of the loans we originate are sold in the secondary market within a short period of time after origination, generally within 30 days. We also sell the servicing rights for the loans we originate through fixed price servicing sales contracts to reduce the risks and costs inherent in servicing loans. This strategy results in owning the loans and related servicing rights for only a short period of time. Operating as a captive business model primarily targeted to supporting our Homebuilding operations, the business levels of our Financial Services operations are highly correlated to Homebuilding. Our Homebuilding customers continue to account for substantially all loan production. We believe that our capture rate, which represents loan originations from our Homebuilding operations as a percentage of total loan opportunities from our Homebuilding operations, excluding cash closings, is an important metric in evaluating the effectiveness of our captive mortgage business model. The following tables present selected financial information for our Financial Services operations ($000’s omitted): (a)     Percentage not meaningful 30 Revenues Total Financial Services revenues during 2023 increased 3% compared with 2022 as the result of higher earned title premiums and insurance commissions. Income before income taxes The increase in income before income taxes for 2023 as compared with 2022 was primarily attributable to higher title and insurance revenues partially offset by higher overhead expenses. Income Taxes Our effective income tax rate was 24.6% and 23.9% for 2023 and 2022, respectively. Our effective tax rate for each of these periods differs from the federal statutory rate primarily due to state income tax expense. Liquidity and Capital Resources We finance our land acquisition, development, and construction activities and financial services operations using internally-generated funds, supplemented by credit arrangements with third parties and capital market financing. We routinely monitor current and expected operational requirements and financial market conditions to evaluate accessing available financing sources, including revolving bank credit and securities offerings. At December 31, 2023, we had unrestricted cash and equivalents of $1.8 billion, restricted cash balances of $42.6 million, and $937.3 million available under our Revolving Credit Facility (as defined below). Our ratio of debt-to-total capitalization, excluding our Financial Services debt, was 15.9% at December 31, 2023 as compared with 18.7% at December 31, 2022. We follow a diversified investment approach for our cash and equivalents by maintaining such funds with a broad portfolio of banks within our group of relationship banks in high quality, highly liquid, short-term deposits and investments, which helps mitigate banking concentration risk. In response to recent volatility in the banking system, we have shifted a larger percentage of our cash and equivalents to money market funds to reduce the balances held in bank accounts. For the next 12 months, we expect our principal demand for funds will be for the acquisition and development of land inventory, construction of house inventory, and operating expenses, including our general and administrative expenses. Though we experienced significant improvement in 2023, the elongation of our production cycle in recent years has required a greater investment of cash in our homes under production. Additionally, we plan to continue our dividend payments and repurchases of common stock. In August 2024, we need to repay or refinance Pulte Mortgage's master repurchase agreement with third-party lenders (as amended, the "Repurchase Agreement"). While we intend to refinance the Repurchase Agreement, there can be no assurances that the Repurchase Agreement can be renewed or replaced on commercially reasonable terms upon its expiration. However, we believe we have adequate liquidity to meet Pulte Mortgage's anticipated financing needs. Beyond the next twelve months, we will need to repay or refinance our Revolving Credit Facility, which matures in June 2027, and our unsecured 31 senior notes, the next tranche of which becomes due in 2026. We may from time to time repurchase our unsecured senior notes through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, or otherwise. We believe that our current cash position and other available financing resources, coupled with our ongoing operating activities, will provide sufficient liquidity to fund our business needs over the next twelve months and beyond. To the extent the sources of capital described above are insufficient to meet our needs, we may also conduct additional public offerings of our securities, refinance debt, dispose of certain assets to fund our operating activities, or draw on existing or new debt facilities. Unsecured senior notes At December 31, 2023, we had $1.9 billion of unsecured senior notes outstanding with no repayments due until March 2026, when $455.4 million of notes are scheduled to mature. At December 31, 2022, we had $2.0 billion of unsecured senior notes outstanding with no repayments due until March 2026, when $500.0 million of notes were scheduled to mature. During the twelve months ended 2023, we completed open market repurchases of $44.6 million and $56.1 million of our unsecured senior notes scheduled to mature in 2026 and 2027, respectively. Other notes payable Other notes payable include non-recourse and limited recourse secured notes with third parties that totaled $71.0 million at December 31, 2023. These notes have maturities ranging up to six years, are secured by the applicable land positions to which they relate, and generally have no recourse to other assets. The stated interest rates on these notes range up to 6%. Joint venture debt At December 31, 2023, aggregate outstanding debt of unconsolidated joint ventures was $73.5 million, of which $33.2 million related to one joint venture in which we have a 50% interest. In connection with this loan, we and our joint venture partner provided customary limited recourse guaranties in which our maximum financial loss exposure is limited to our pro rata share of the debt outstanding. Revolving credit facility We maintain a revolving credit facility ("Revolving Credit Facility") maturing in June 2027 that has a maximum borrowing capacity of $1.3 billion and contains an uncommitted accordion feature that could increase the capacity to $1.8 billion, subject to certain conditions and availability of additional bank commitments. The Revolving Credit Facility also provides for the issuance of letters of credit that reduce the available borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility, up to the maximum borrowing capacity. The interest rate on borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility may be based on either the Secured Overnight Financing Rate or a base rate plus an applicable margin, as defined therein. The Revolving Credit Facility contains financial covenants that require us to maintain a minimum Tangible Net Worth and a maximum Debt-to-Capitalization Ratio (as each term is defined in the Revolving Credit Facility). As of December 31, 2023, we were in compliance with all covenants. Outstanding balances under the Revolving Credit Facility are guaranteed by certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. At December 31, 2023, we had no borrowings outstanding, $312.7 million of letters of credit issued, and $937.3 million of remaining capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility. At December 31, 2022, we had no borrowings outstanding, $303.4 million of letters of credit issued, and $946.6 million of remaining capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility. Financial Services debt Pulte Mortgage provides mortgage financing for the majority of our home closings by utilizing its own funds and funds made available pursuant to credit agreements with third parties. Pulte Mortgage uses these resources to finance its lending activities until the loans are sold in the secondary market, which generally occurs within 30 days. In August 2023, Pulte Mortgage entered into the Repurchase Agreement, which matures on August 14, 2024. The Repurchase Agreement replaced a substantially similar agreement that previously existed with different lenders. The maximum aggregate commitment was $850.0 million during the seasonally high borrowing period from December 27, 2023 through January 15, 32 2024. Thereafter, the maximum aggregate commitment ranges from $600.0 million to $700.0 million. The Repurchase Agreement also contains an accordion feature that could increase the commitment by $50.0 million above its active commitment level. The purpose of the changes in capacity during the term of the agreement is to lower associated fees during seasonally lower volume periods of mortgage origination activity. Borrowings under the Repurchase Agreement are secured by residential mortgage loans available-for-sale. The Repurchase Agreement contains various affirmative and negative covenants applicable to Pulte Mortgage, including quantitative thresholds related to net worth, net income, and liquidity. At December 31, 2023, Pulte Mortgage had $499.6 million outstanding at a weighted average interest rate of 7.15%, and $350.4 million of remaining capacity under the Repurchase Agreement. At December 31, 2022, Pulte Mortgage had $586.7 million outstanding at a weighted average interest rate of 5.39% and $213.3 million of remaining capacity under the Repurchase Agreement. Pulte Mortgage was in compliance with all of its covenants and requirements as of such dates. Dividends and share repurchase program We declared quarterly cash dividends totaling $149.8 million and $143.1 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively, and repurchased 13.8 million and 24.2 million shares in 2023 and 2022, respectively, for a total of $1.0 billion and $1.1 billion in 2023 and 2022, respectively. On April 24, 2023, the Board of Directors increased our share repurchase authorization by $1.0 billion. At December 31, 2023, we had remaining authorization to repurchase $382.9 million of common shares. On  January 29, 2024, the Board of Directors increased our on January 29, 2024 share repurchase authorization by $1.5 billion. Contractual obligations We are a party to many contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties. These obligations impact our short-term and long-term liquidity and capital resource needs. Certain contractual obligations are reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2023, while others are considered future commitments. Our contractual obligations primarily consist of long-term debt and related interest payments, purchase obligations related to expected acquisitions and development of land, operating leases, and obligations under our various compensation and benefit plans. We use letters of credit and surety bonds to guarantee our performance under various contracts, principally in connection with the development of our homebuilding projects. The expiration dates of the letter of credit contracts coincide with the expected completion date of the related homebuilding projects. If the obligations related to a project are ongoing, annual extensions of the letters of credit are typically granted on a year-to-year basis. At December 31, 2023, we had outstanding letters of credit of $312.7 million. Our surety bonds generally do not have stated expiration dates; rather, we are released from the bonds as the contractual performance is completed. These bonds, which approximated $2.4 billion at December 31, 2023, are typically outstanding over a period of approximately three to five years. Because significant construction and development work has been performed related to the applicable projects but has not yet received final acceptance by the respective counterparties, the aggregate amount of surety bonds outstanding is in excess of the projected cost of the remaining work to be performed. In the ordinary course of business, we enter into land option agreements in order to procure land for the construction of houses in the future. At December 31, 2023, these agreements had an aggregate remaining purchase price of $6.4 billion. Pursuant to these land option agreements, we provide a deposit to the seller as consideration for the right to purchase land at different times in the future, usually at predetermined prices. At December 31, 2023, outstanding deposits totaled $405.4 million, of which $16.3 million is refundable. For further information regarding our primary obligations, refer to , "Debt" and , "Commitments and Contingencies" to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on 10-K for amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2023, related to debt and commitments and contingencies, respectively. Cash flows Operating activities Net cash provided by operating activities in 2023 was $2.2 billion, compared with net cash provided by operating activities of $668.5 million in 2022. Generally, the primary drivers of our cash flow from operations are profitability and changes in inventory levels and residential mortgage loans available-for-sale, each of which experiences seasonal fluctuations. Our positive cash flow from operations for 2023 was primarily due to our net income of $2.6 billion, which was partially offset by a $354.0 million net increase in inventories primarily attributable to investment in land inventory. 33 Net cash provided by operating activities in 2022 was primarily due to our net income of $2.6 billion, which was partially offset by a $2.3 billion net increase in inventories primarily attributable to higher house inventory in production resulting from more unsold units and extended production cycle times combined with investment in land inventory. Cash flow from operations in 2022 was also favorably impacted by a $266.3 million decrease in residential mortgage loans available-for-sale. Investing activities Net cash used in investing activities totaled $129.1 million in 2023, compared with $171.7 million in 2022. The 2023 cash outflows primarily reflect $23.4 million of investments in unconsolidated entities primarily in support of our land development activities and capital expenditures of $92.2 million related to our ongoing investment in new communities, construction operations, and certain information technology applications. Net cash used in investing activities in 2022 primarily reflected $64.7 million of investments in unconsolidated entities primarily in support of our land development activities and capital expenditures of $112.7 million related to our ongoing investment in new communities, construction operations, and certain information technology applications. Financing activities Net cash used in financing activities was $1.3 billion in 2023 compared with $1.2 billion during 2022. The net cash used in financing activities for 2023 resulted primarily from the repurchase of 13.8 million common shares for $1.0 billion under our repurchase authorization, cash dividends of $142.5 million, and repayments of debt of $123.3 million. Net cash used in financing activities for 2022 resulted primarily from the repurchase of 24.2 million common shares for $1.1 billion under our repurchase authorization and cash dividends of $144.1 million. Seasonality Although significant changes in market conditions have impacted our seasonal patterns in the past and could do so again, we have historically experienced variability in our quarterly results from operations due to the seasonal nature of the homebuilding industry. We generally experience increases in revenues and cash flow from operations during the fourth quarter based on the timing of home closings. This seasonal activity increases our working capital requirements in our third and fourth quarters to support our home production and loan origination volumes. As a result of the seasonality of our operations, our quarterly results of operations are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the full year. Additionally, given the disruption in economic activity caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, supply chain challenges, increase in mortgage interest rates, and other macroeconomic factors, our quarterly results in 2023 and 2022 are not necessarily indicative of results that may be achieved in the future. Supplemental Guarantor Financial Information As of December 31, 2023 PulteGroup, Inc. had outstanding $1.9 billion principal amount of unsecured senior notes due at dates from March 2026 through February 2035 and no amounts outstanding on its Revolving Credit Facility. All of our unsecured senior notes and the Revolving Credit Facility are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a joint and several basis, by certain subsidiaries of PulteGroup, Inc. ("Guarantors" or "Guarantor Subsidiaries"). Each of the Guarantor Subsidiaries is 100% owned, directly or indirectly, by PulteGroup, Inc. Our subsidiaries associated with our financial services operations and certain other subsidiaries do not guarantee the unsecured senior notes or the Revolving Credit Facility (collectively, "Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries"). The guarantees are senior unsecured obligations of each Guarantor and rank equal with all existing and future senior debt of such Guarantor and senior to all subordinated debt of such Guarantor. The guarantees are effectively subordinated to any secured debt of such Guarantor to the extent of the value of the assets securing such debt. A court could void or subordinate any Guarantor’s guarantee under the fraudulent conveyance laws if existing or future creditors of any such Guarantor were successful in establishing that such Guarantor: (a) incurred the guarantee with the intent of hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors; or (b) received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration in return for incurring the guarantee and, in the case of any one of the following is also true at the time thereof: 34 • such Guarantor was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of the issuance of the incurrence of the guarantee; • the incurrence of the guarantee left such Guarantor with an unreasonably small amount of capital or assets to carry on its business; • such Guarantor intended to, or believed that it would, incur debts beyond its ability to pay as they mature; • such Guarantor was a defendant in an action for money damages, or had a judgment for money damages docketed against it, if the judgment is unsatisfied after final judgment. The measures of insolvency for purposes of determining whether a fraudulent conveyance occurred would vary depending upon the laws of the relevant jurisdiction and upon the valuation assumptions and methodology applied by the court. However, in general, a court would deem a company insolvent if: • the sum of its debts, including contingent and unliquidated liabilities, was greater than the fair saleable value of all of its assets; • the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or • it could not pay its debts as they became due. The guarantees of the senior notes contain a provision to limit each Guarantor’s liability to the maximum amount that it could incur without causing the incurrence of obligations under its guarantee to be a fraudulent transfer. However, under recent case law, this provision may not be effective to protect such guarantee from being voided under fraudulent transfer law or otherwise determined to be unenforceable. If a court were to find that the incurrence of a guarantee was a fraudulent transfer or conveyance, the court could void the payment obligations under that guarantee, could subordinate that guarantee to presently existing and future indebtedness of the Guarantor or could require the holders of the senior notes to repay any amounts received with respect to that guarantee. In the event of a finding that a fraudulent transfer or conveyance occurred, holders may not receive any repayment on the senior notes. Finally, as a court of equity, a bankruptcy court may subordinate the claims in respect of the guarantees to other claims against us under the principle of equitable subordination if the court determines that (1) the holder of senior notes engaged in some type of inequitable conduct, (2) the inequitable conduct resulted in injury to our other creditors or conferred an unfair advantage upon the holders of senior notes and (3) equitable subordination is not inconsistent with the provisions of the bankruptcy code. On the basis of historical financial information, operating history and other factors, we believe that each of the Guarantors, after giving effect to the issuance of the guarantees when such guarantees were issued, was not insolvent, did not have unreasonably small capital for the business in which it engaged and did not and has not incurred debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature. We cannot provide assurance, however, as to what standard a court would apply in making these determinations or that a court would agree with our conclusions in this regard. The following tables present summarized financial information for PulteGroup, Inc. and the Guarantor Subsidiaries on a combined basis after intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated among PulteGroup, Inc. and the Guarantor Subsidiaries, as well as their investment in and equity in earnings from the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries ($000’s omitted): 35 Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of the Company's financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and the discussion and analysis of its financial condition and operating results requires management to make estimates and assumptions, including estimates about the future resolution of existing uncertainties that affect the amounts reported. As a result, actual results could differ from these estimates. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. We believe the following critical accounting estimates reflect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. For a discussion of all of our significant accounting policies, refer to , "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies". Inventory and cost of revenues Cost of revenues includes the construction cost, average lot cost, estimated warranty costs, and closing costs applicable to the home. The construction cost of the home includes amounts paid through the closing date of the home, plus an accrual for costs incurred but not yet paid, based on an analysis of budgeted construction costs. This accrual is reviewed for accuracy based on actual payments made after closing compared with the amount accrued, and adjustments are made if needed. Land acquisition and development costs are allocated to individual lots using an average lot cost determined based on the total expected land acquisition and development costs and the total expected home closings for the community. Total community land acquisition and development costs are based on an analysis of budgeted costs compared with actual costs incurred to date and estimates to complete. The development cycles for our communities range from under one year to in excess of 10 years for certain master planned communities. Adjustments to estimated total land acquisition and development costs for the community affect the amounts costed for the community’s remaining lots. We test inventory for impairment when events and circumstances indicate that the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by the community may be less than its carrying amount. Such indicators include gross margins or sales paces significantly below expectations, construction costs or land development costs significantly in excess of budgeted amounts, significant delays or changes in the planned development for the community, and other known qualitative factors. Communities that demonstrate potential impairment indicators are tested for impairment by comparing the expected undiscounted cash flows for the community to its carrying value. For those communities whose carrying values exceed the expected undiscounted cash 36 flows, we determine the fair value of the community and impairment charges are recorded if the fair value of the community’s inventory is less than its carrying value. We generally determine the fair value of each community using a combination of discounted cash flow models and market comparable transactions, where available. These estimated cash flows are significantly impacted by estimates related to expected average selling prices, expected sales paces, expected land development and construction timelines, and anticipated land development, construction, and overhead costs. The assumptions used in the discounted cash flow models are specific to each community. Due to uncertainties in the estimation process, the significant volatility in demand for new housing, the long life cycles of many communities, and potential changes in our strategy related to certain communities, actual results could differ significantly from such estimates. Generally, a community must have projected gross margin percentages in the single digits or lower to potentially fail the undiscounted cash flow step and proceed to the fair value step. Our overall gross margin realized during 2023 and our average gross margin in backlog at December 31, 2023 both exceeded 28%, and we have only a small minority of communities with gross margins below 10%. However, in the event of an extended economic slowdown that leads to moderate or significant decreases in the price of new homes in certain geographic or buyer submarkets, we could have a larger number of communities that begin to approach these levels such that more detailed impairment analyses would be necessary, and the resulting impairments could be material. Additionally, we have $704.2 million of deposits and pre-acquisition costs at December 31, 2023 related to option agreements to acquire additional land. In the event of an extended economic slowdown, we could elect to cancel a large portion of such land option agreements, which would generally result in the write-off of the related deposits and pre-acquisition costs. Self-insured risks At any point in time, we are managing numerous individual claims related to general liability, property, errors and omission, workers compensation, and other business insurance coverage. We reserve for costs associated with such claims (including expected claims management expenses) on an undiscounted basis at the time product revenue is recognized for each home closing and periodically evaluate the recorded liabilities based on actuarial analyses of our historical claims. The actuarial analyses calculate estimates of the ultimate cost of all unpaid losses, including estimates for incurred but not reported losses ("IBNR"). IBNR represents losses related to claims incurred but not yet reported plus development on reported claims. Our recorded reserves for all such claims totaled $563.1 million and $635.9 million at December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, the vast majority of which relate to general liability claims. The recorded reserves include loss estimates related to both (i) existing claims and related claim expenses and (ii) IBNR and related claim expenses. Liabilities related to IBNR and related claim expenses represented approximately 77% and 74% of the total general liability reserves at December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The actuarial analyses that determine the IBNR portion of reserves consider a variety of factors, including the frequency and severity of losses, which are based on our historical claims experience supplemented by industry data. The actuarial analyses of the reserves also consider historical third party recovery rates and claims management expenses. Because of the inherent uncertainty in estimating future losses related to these claims, actual costs could differ significantly from estimated costs. Based on the actuarial analyses performed, we believe the range of reasonably possible losses related to these claims is $475 million to $650 million. While this range represents our best estimate of our ultimate liability related to these claims, due to a variety of factors, including those factors described above, there can be no assurance that the ultimate costs realized by us will fall within this range. Volatility in both national and local housing market conditions can affect the frequency and cost of construction defect claims. Additionally, IBNR estimates comprise the majority of our liability and are subject to a high degree of uncertainty due to a variety of factors, including changes in claims reporting and resolution patterns, third party recoveries, insurance industry practices, the regulatory environment, and legal precedent. State regulations vary, but construction defect claims are reported and resolved over an extended period often exceeding ten years. Changes in the frequency and timing of reported claims and estimates of specific claim values can impact the underlying inputs and trends utilized in the actuarial analyses, which could have a material impact on the recorded reserves. Additionally, the amount of insurance coverage available for each policy period also impacts our recorded reserves. Because of the inherent uncertainty in estimating future losses and the timing of such losses related to these claims, actual costs could differ significantly from estimated costs. Adjustments to reserves are recorded in the period in which the change in estimate occurs. During 2023 and 2022, we reduced general liability reserves by $130.8 million and $65.0 million, respectively, as a result of changes in estimates resulting from actual claim experience observed being less than anticipated in previous actuarial projections. The changes in actuarial estimates were driven by changes in actual claims experience that, in turn, impacted actuarial estimates for potential future 37 claims. These changes in actuarial estimates did not involve any changes in actuarial methodology but did impact the development of estimates for future periods, which resulted in adjustments to the IBNR portion of our recorded liabilities. There were no material adjustments to individual claims. Rather, the adjustments reflect an overall lower level of losses related to construction defect claims in recent years as compared with our previous experience. We attribute this favorable experience to a variety of factors, including improved construction techniques, rising home values, and increased participation from our subcontractors in resolving claims.