********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Some of the statements in this report and, in particular, statements found in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include statements about our expectations regarding our future liquidity, earnings, expenditures, and financial condition. These statements are often identified by the words “will,” “should,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “expect,” “intend,” “estimate,” “hope,” or similar expressions. These statements reflect management’s current views with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties. There are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control. These factors, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the factors described below. Our actual results, performance, or achievement could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements, and accordingly, we can give no assurances that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what impact they will have on our results of operations or financial condition. In view of these uncertainties, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly revise or otherwise update any forward-looking statements that have been made to reflect the occurrence of events after the date hereof. In addition to the risks and uncertainties we discuss elsewhere in this Form 10-K (particularly in “Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”) or in our other filings with the 9 Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the following are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those we project in any forward-looking statement. Risks Related to the COVID-19 Pandemic The future effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operations is uncertain. On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared the COVID-19 outbreak a pandemic. Since that time, federal, state and local authorities have taken measures to control the outbreak of COVID-19 in the United States, where we primarily operate. These measures have included travel bans and restrictions, quarantines and shelter in place orders. Due to the importance of our products to the continued distribution of food, beverage and other necessities, our operating facilities have been permitted to remain in operation and we have not experienced material disruptions in operations to date. Despite the spread of the virus in the United States, we have maintained sufficient workforce availability as well as adequate supply of raw materials and necessary services to continue operating without material disruption. However, the impact of the further spread of the virus and the measures to control the spread of the virus are uncertain and may materially restrict or hinder our ability to operate our facilities due to measures we may need to take to assure the health and safety of our employees, lack of available workforce, disruptions in the supply of key materials and services or restrictions due to governmental actions. We cannot assure you as to the timing and effectiveness of vaccination efforts on the control of spread of the virus. If our operations are hindered or restricted, we may not be able to serve our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The pandemic resulting from the COVID-19 outbreak, and measures to control the outbreak, are having a negative impact on domestic economic activity, which could adversely affect demand for our products and our business, financial condition and results of operations . Many businesses in the United States have been required to cease or curtail operations and workers have been laid off or furloughed, and have slowed down economic activity. The severity and duration of the impact on the economy will depend on the future spread of the outbreak, future measures by governmental authorities to control the outbreak, the timing and effectiveness of vaccination efforts, the timing and manner in which normal social and business activities are permitted to resume and the effectiveness of governmental efforts to mitigate the economic effect of the outbreak, all of which are highly uncertain. We have experienced significantly lower demand for our uncoated freesheet paper products, due to economic conditions, office closings and school shutdowns associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, which harmed the performance of our Paper segment. Our Jackson, Alabama mill was idled for the majority of the second and third quarters of 2020 and began to produce containerboard for the Packaging segment on a trial basis during the fourth quarter. While we have not experienced lower demand for our containerboard and corrugated packaging products to date, the effect of the pandemic on economic conditions affecting our business and future demand is uncertain. I t is uncertain whether, to what extent and for what period of time current favorable demand conditions in the Packaging segment will continue. With the uncertainty of economic conditions, we are unable to determine the impact on our future operating and financial performance. A prolonged period of lower earnings and reduced cash flow could adversely affect our ability to fund operations, capital requirements, and common stock dividend payments and access capital markets. Risks Related to our Operations, Business and Industry Industry Cyclicality - Changes in the prices of our products could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Macroeconomic conditions and fluctuations in industry capacity can create changes in prices, sales volumes, and margins for most of our products, particularly commodity grades of packaging and paper products. Prices for all of our products are driven by many factors, including demand for our products, industry capacity and decisions made by other producers with respect to capacity and production, and other competitive conditions in our industry. These factors are affected by general global and domestic economic conditions. We have little influence over the timing and extent of price changes of our products, which may be unpredictable and volatile. In addition, as many of our customer contracts include price adjustment provisions based upon published index prices for containerboard or certain grades of UFS papers, our selling prices are influenced by index levels published by trade publications. Changes in how these index levels are determined or maintained may affect our sales prices. If supply exceeds demand, industry operating conditions deteriorate or other factors result in lower prices for our products, our earnings and operating cash flows would be harmed. Competition - The intensity of competition in the industries in which we operate could result in downward pressure on pricing and volume, which could lower earnings and operating cash flows. Our industries are highly competitive, with no single containerboard, corrugated packaging, or UFS paper producer having a dominant position. Containerboard and commodity UFS paper products cannot generally be differentiated by producer, which tends to intensify price competition. The corrugated packaging industry is also sensitive to changes in economic conditions, as well as other factors including innovation, 10 design, quality, and service. To the extent that one or more competitors are more successful than we are with respect to any key competitive factor, our business could be adversely affected. Our packaging products also compete, to some extent, with various other packaging materials, including products made of paper, plastics, wood, and various types of metal. If we are unable to successfully compete, we may lose market share or may be required to charge lower sales prices for our products, both of which would reduce our earnings and operating cash flows. UFS paper products compete with electronic data transmission and document storage alternatives. Increasing shifts to electronic alternatives have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on usage of these products. As a result of such competition, the industry is experiencing decreasing demand for existing UFS paper products. As the use of these alternatives grows, demand for UFS paper products is likely to further decline. Declines in demand for our paper products may adversely affect our earnings and operating cash flows. Some of our competitors are larger than we are and may have greater financial and other resources, greater manufacturing economies of scale, greater energy self-sufficiency, or lower operating costs, compared to our company. We may be unable to compete effectively with these companies particularly during economic downturns. Some of the factors that may adversely affect our ability to compete in the markets in which we participate include the entry of new competitors into the markets we serve, increased competition from overseas producers, our competitors' pricing strategies, changes in customer preferences, and the cost-efficiency of our facilities. Cost of Fiber - An increase in the cost of fiber could increase our manufacturing costs and lower our earnings. The market price of wood fiber varies based upon availability, source, and the costs of fuels used in the harvesting and transportation of wood fiber. The cost and availability of wood fiber can also be impacted by weather, general logging conditions, geography, and regulatory activity. The availability and cost of recycled fiber depends heavily on recycling rates and the domestic and global demand for recycled products. We purchase recycled fiber for use at five of our six containerboard mills and both paper mills. In 2020, we purchased approximately 725,000 tons of recycled fiber, net of the recycled fiber generated by our corrugated box plants. The amount of recycled fiber purchased each year varies based upon production and the prices of both recycled fiber and wood fiber. Periods of supply and demand imbalance have created significant price volatility. Periods of higher recycled fiber costs and unusual price volatility have occurred in the past, including during 2020 as demand for domestic recycled fiber from Chinese producers continued to remain low. Prices for recycled fiber may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future, which could result in higher costs and lower earnings. A $10 per ton price increase in recycled fiber for our containerboard mills would result in approximately $7 million of additional expense based on 2020 consumption. Cost of Purchased Fuels and Chemicals - An increase in the cost of purchased fuels and chemicals could lead to higher manufacturing costs, resulting in reduced earnings. We have the ability to use various types of purchased fuels in our manufacturing operations, including natural gas, bark, and other purchased fuels. Fuel prices, in particular prices for oil and natural gas, have fluctuated in the past. New and more stringent environmental regulations may discourage, reduce the availability of, or make more expensive, the use of certain fuels, particularly coal and fossil fuels. In addition, costs for key chemicals used in our manufacturing operations also fluctuate. These fluctuations impact our manufacturing costs and result in earnings volatility. If fuel and chemical prices rise, our production costs and transportation costs will increase and cause higher manufacturing costs and reduced earnings if we are unable to recover such increases through higher prices of our products. A $0.10 per million MMBTU increase in natural gas prices would result in approximately $3 million of additional expense, based on 2020 usage. Customer Concentration - We rely on certain large customers. Our packaging and paper segments each have large customers, the loss of which could adversely affect the segment’s sales and profitability. In particular, because our businesses operate in highly competitive industry segments, we regularly bid for new business or for renewal of existing business. The loss of business from our larger customers, or the renewal of business on less favorable terms, may adversely impact our financial results. Office Depot, Inc. is our largest customer in the Paper segment. Effective January 1, 2020, we have a revised agreement with Office Depot in which we will continue to supply commodity and non-commodity office papers to Office Depot through December 31, 2022. Office Depot is not subject to a minimum volume commitment and is entitled to receive rebates for achieving certain volume thresholds. If the agreement is not renewed by the parties, Office Depot’s obligation to purchase paper would phase down over a two-year period beginning on January 1, 2023. 11 In 2020 , sale s to Office Depot represented 45% of our Paper segment sales and 5% of our consolidated sales. If t hese sales are reduced, including if we are unable to renew the agreement at historical volume levels, we would need to find new customers. We may not be able to fully replace any lost sales, and any new sales may be at lower prices or higher costs. Any significant deterioration in the financial condition of Office Depot affecting its ability to pay or any other change that makes Office Depot less willing to purchase our products will harm our business and results of operations. Transportation Costs - Reduced truck and rail availability could lead to higher costs or poorer service, resulting in lower earnings, and harm our ability to distribute our products. We ship our products primarily by truck and rail. We have experienced lower availability of third-party trucking services and service issues, interruptions, and delays in rail services. We have also experienced higher costs for transportation services in general. If these factors persist, we could experience even higher transportation costs in the future and difficulties shipping our products in a timely manner. We may not be able to recover higher transportation costs through higher prices or otherwise, which would result in lower earnings. Material Disruption of Manufacturing - A material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales, and/or negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business depends on continuous operation of our facilities, particularly at our mills. Any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within such facilities, could cease operations unexpectedly for a significant period of time due to a number of events, including: These events could harm our ability to produce our products and serve our customers and may lead to higher costs and reduced earnings. Reliance on Personnel - We may fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, including key management personnel. Our ability to operate and grow our business depends on our ability to attract and retain employees with the skills necessary to operate and maintain our facilities, produce our products and serve our customers. The increasing demand for qualified personnel may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified employees. Changing demographics and labor work force trends may make it difficult for us to replace retiring employees at our manufacturing and other facilities. If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, or if we experience labor shortages, we may experience higher costs and other difficulties, and our business may be adversely impacted. In addition, we rely on key executive and management personnel to manage our business efficiently and effectively. As our business has grown in size and geographic scope, we have relied on these individuals to manage increasingly complex operations. The loss of any of our key personnel could adversely affect our business. Cyber Security - Risks related to security breaches of company, customer, employee, and vendor information, as well as the technology that manages our operations and other business processes, could adversely affect our business. We rely on various information technology systems to capture, process, store, and report data and interact with customers, vendors, and employees. Despite careful security and controls design, implementation, updating, and internal and independent third-party assessments, our information technology systems, and those of our third party providers, could become subject to cyber-attacks or security breaches. Network, system, and data breaches could result in misappropriation of sensitive data or operational 12 disruptions including interruption to systems availability and denial of access to and misuse of applications required by our customers to conduct business with us. Misuse of internal applications; theft of intellectual property, trade secrets, or other corporate assets; and inappropriate disclosure of confidential information could stem from such incidents. Delayed sales, slowed production, or other issues resulting from these disruptions could result in lost sales, business delays, and negative publicity and could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, or operating cash flows. Environmental Matters - PCA may incur significant environmental liabilities with respect to both past and future operations. We are subject to, and must comply with, a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws, particularly those relating to air and water quality, waste disposal and the cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines, which may be significant, or other adverse regulatory action. Because environmental regulations are constantly evolving, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs to maintain compliance with those laws. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Environmental Matters” for estimates of expenditures we expect to make for environmental compliance in the next few years. New and more stringent environmental regulations may be adopted and may require us to incur additional operating expenses and/or significant additional capital expenditures to modify or replace certain of our boilers and other equipment. In addition, environmental regulations may increase the cost of our raw materials and purchased energy. Although we have established reserves to provide for known environmental liabilities, these reserves may change over time due to the enactment of new environmental laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations, which might require additional significant environmental expenditures. Labor Relations- If we experience strikes or other work stoppages, our business will be harmed. Our workforce is highly unionized and operates under various collective bargaining agreements. We must negotiate to renew or extend any union contracts that have recently expired or are expiring in the near future. While we believe that we have satisfactory labor relations, we may not be able to successfully negotiate new agreements without work stoppages or labor difficulties in the future or renegotiate them on favorable terms. If we are unable to successfully renegotiate the terms of any of these agreements, or if we experience any extended interruption of operations at any of our facilities as a result of strikes or other work stoppages, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. Financial Risks General Economic Conditions - If business, political, and economic conditions change in an adverse manner, our business, results of operations, liquidity, and financial position may be harmed. General global and domestic economic conditions directly affect the levels of demand and production of consumer goods, levels of employment, the availability and cost of credit, and ultimately, the profitability of our business. If economic conditions deteriorate and result in higher unemployment rates, lower disposable income, unfavorable currency exchange rates, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment, and lower consumer spending, we may experience lower demand for our products, which is largely driven by demand for products of our customers which utilize our products. If economic conditions result in higher inflation, we may experience higher production and transportation costs, which we may not be able to recover through higher prices or otherwise. In addition, changes in trade policy, including renegotiating or potentially terminating existing bilateral or multilateral agreements as well as the imposition of tariffs, could impact global markets and demand for our and our customers’ products and the costs associated with certain of our capital investments. Further changes in tax laws or tax rates may have a material impact on our future cash taxes, effective tax rate or deferred tax assets and liabilities. These conditions are beyond our control and may have a material impact on our business, results of operations, liquidity, and financial position. Inflation and Other General Cost Increases - We may not be able to offset higher costs . We are subject to both contractual, inflationary, and other general cost increases, including with regard to our labor costs and purchases of raw materials and transportation services. General economic conditions may result in higher inflation, which may increase our exposure to higher costs. If we are unable to offset these cost increases by price increases, growth, and/or cost reductions in our operations, these inflationary and other general cost increases could have a material adverse effect on our operating cash flows, profitability, and liquidity. In 2020, our total company costs including cost of sales (COS) and selling, general, and administrative expenses (SG&A) was $5.8 billion, and excluding non-cash costs (depreciation, depletion and amortization, pension and postretirement expense, and share-based compensation expense) was $5.4 billion. A 1% increase in COS and SG&A costs would increase costs by $58 million and cash costs by $54 million. 13 Debt obligations - Our debt service obligations may reduce our operating flexibility. At December 31, 2020, we had $2.5 billion of debt outstanding and a $326.3 million u ndrawn revolving credit facility, after deducting letters of credit. All debt is comprised of fixed-rate senior notes. We and our subsidiaries are not restricted from incurring, and may incur, additional indebtedness in the future. Our current borrowings, plus any future borrowings, may affect our ability to operate our business, including, without limitation: Further, if we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions to secure additional cash by selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing investments, which may not be achievable on acceptable terms or at all. Pension Plans – Our pension plans may require additional funding. We record a liability associated with our pensions equal to the excess of the benefit obligations over the fair value of the assets funding the plans. The actual required amounts and timing of future cash contributions will be sensitive to changes in the applicable discount rates and returns on plan assets, and could also be impacted by future changes in the laws and regulations applicable to plan funding. Fluctuations in the market performance of our plan assets will affect our pension plan costs in future periods. Changes in assumptions regarding expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, our discount rate, expected compensation levels, or mortality will also increase or decrease pension costs. Market Price of our Common Stock - The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of the stock to decline. Securities markets worldwide periodically experience significant price declines and volume fluctuations due to macroeconomic factors and other factors beyond our control. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market, or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock with little regard to our operating performance. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis of historical results of operations and financial condition should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements and the notes thereto which appear elsewhere in this Form 10-K. This discussion includes forward-looking statements regarding our expectations with respect to our future performance, liquidity, and capital resources. Such statements, along with any other non-historical statements in the discussion, are forward-looking. See our discussion regarding forward-looking statements included under “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Form 10-K. For our discussion and analysis of our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2018, the earliest of the years presented in the accompanying audited financial statements included in Item 8 herein, please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 26, 2020. Such information is presented in Item 7 of such report under the subcaptions “Results of Operations —Year Ended December 31, 2019, Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2018” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” and is incorporated by reference herein. Overview PCA is the third largest producer of containerboard products and the third largest producer of uncoated freesheet paper in North America. We operate six containerboard mills, two paper mills, and 90 corrugated products manufacturing plants. Our containerboard mills produce linerboard and corrugating medium, which are papers primarily used in the production of corrugated products. Our corrugated products manufacturing plants produce a wide variety of corrugated packaging products, including conventional shipping containers used to protect and transport manufactured goods, multi-color boxes and displays with strong visual appeal that help to merchandise the packaged product in retail locations, and honeycomb protective packaging. In addition, we are a large producer of packaging for meat, fresh fruit and vegetables, processed food, beverages, and other industrial and consumer products. We also manufacture and sell UFS papers, including both commodity and specialty papers, which may have custom or specialized features such as colors, coatings, high brightness, and recycled content. We are headquartered in Lake Forest, Illinois and operate primarily in the United States. Executive Summary Net sales were $6.66 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020 and $6.96 billion in 2019. We reported $461 million of net income, or $4.84 per diluted share, in 2020, compared to $696 million, or $7.34 per diluted share, in 2019. Net income included $89 million of expense for special items in 2020, compared to $29 million of expense for special items in 2019. Special items in both periods are described later in this section. Excluding special items, we recorded $550 million of net income, or $5.78 per diluted share, in 2020, compared to $726 million, or $7.65 per diluted share, in 2019. The decrease was driven primarily by lower prices and mix in our Packaging and Paper segments, lower volumes in our Paper segment, higher freight and logistic expense, and higher annual outage expense, partially offset by higher volumes in our Packaging segment, and lower operating and converting costs. For additional detail on special items included in reported GAAP results, as well as segment income (loss) excluding special items, earnings before non-operating pension expense, interest, income taxes, and depreciation, amortization, and depletion (EBITDA), and EBITDA excluding special items, see “Item 7. Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Reported Amounts.” PCA ended the year with $1.1 billion of cash and marketable debt securities and, including borrowing availability under its revolving credit facility, $1.4 billion in liquidity. The Company was committed to conducting safe operations through the COVID-19 pandemic during the year in adherence with the guidelines of the Center for Disease Control and applicable health and safety regulations. As PCA’s operations continued to operate as “essential businesses,” we adopted measures to protect the health and safety of our employees, including social distancing practices, enhanced sanitation procedures and modified absence pay policies. These practices will continue into 2021 as the effects of the pandemic continue. PCA did not experience significant disruptions in its operations as a result of the pandemic and has maintained adequate availability of its workforce and supply of raw materials and services to continue to serve its customers. Packaging segment income from operations was $830 million in 2020, compared to $963 million in 2019. Packaging segment EBITDA excluding special items was $1,229 million in 2020, compared to $1,310 million in 2019. The decrease was driven primarily by lower containerboard and corrugated prices and mix, partially offset by higher sales and production volumes, lower operating and converting costs, lower annual outage expense, and lower freight and logistic expenses. Demand for Packaging segment products remained strong throughout the year, with our corrugated products shipments up 5.8% over 2019 (an increase of 5.4% on a per day basis as 2020 had one more operating day than 2019) and is expected to remain strong into the first quarter of 2021. We notified our customers of increased prices on our containerboard and corrugated products 19 during the fourth quarter of 2020 . We expect to incur some inflation in freight, labor, energy and fiber costs into the first quarter of 2021. Paper segment loss from operations was $20 million in 2020, compared to income of $175 million in 2019. Paper segment EBITDA excluding special items was $73 million in 2020, compared to $213 million in 2019. The decrease was due primarily to lower sales and production volumes, lower paper prices and mix, higher annual outage expense, and higher freight and logistic expenses, partially offset by lower operating costs. Sales were 30% lower than last year, as demand for our paper products has continued to be negatively affected by the COVID-19 pandemic due to office and school closures. As described in Note 8, Goodwill and Intangible Assets included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we incurred a charge of $55.2 million during the year associated with the full impairment of goodwill within the Paper segment. Operations at our Jackson, Alabama mill were idled for the majority of the second and third quarters of 2020. During the fourth quarter of 2020, due to an increase in demand for our corrugated products and as part of our assessment of a potential conversion to produce containerboard, we began producing high-performance, virgin kraft linerboard on the No. 3 machine at our Jackson mill. Before October 2020, operating results for the Jackson mill were included in the Paper segment. Beginning in October 2020, operating results for the Jackson mill are included in both the Packaging and Paper segments. We expect to continue to produce containerboard on the Jackson machine during the first quarter of 2021 to fulfill the needs of our packaging customers, as well as produce uncoated freesheet to service our paper customers. During the second quarter of 2018, the Company discontinued production of paper grades at its Wallula, Washington mill and converted the No. 3 paper machine to a virgin kraft linerboard machine. The Company incurred charges in the Packaging and Paper segments relating to these activities during 2019 as described below under “Special Items and Earnings per Diluted Share, Excluding Special Items.” Special Items and Earnings per Diluted Share, Excluding Special Items Earnings per diluted share, excluding special items, in 2020 and 2019 were as follows: 20 Management excludes special items, as it believes these items are not necessarily reflective of the ongoing results of operations of our business. We present these measures because they provide a means to evaluate the performance of our segments and our company on an ongoing basis using the same measures that are used by our management, because these measures assist in providing a meaningful comparison between periods presented and because these measures are frequently used by investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of companies and the performance of their segments. A reconciliation of diluted earnings per share to diluted earnings per share excluding special items is included above and the reconciliations of other non-GAAP measures used in this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, to the most comparable measure reported in accordance with GAAP, are included later in Item 7 under “Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Reported Amounts.” Any analysis of non-GAAP financial measures should be done in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. The non-GAAP measures are not intended to be substitutes for GAAP financial measures and should not be used as such. Industry and Business Conditions Trade publications reported North American industry-wide corrugated products shipments per workday were up 3.0% during 2020, compared to 2019. Reported industry containerboard production increased 3.6% compared to 2019, and reported industry containerboard inventories at the end of 2020 were approximately 2.3 million tons, down 8.9% compared to 2019. Reported containerboard export shipments increased 9.0% compared to 2019. Prices reported by trade publications decreased by $10 per ton for linerboard and $15 per ton for corrugating medium in January 2020, followed by a $50 per ton increase in linerboard and medium in November 2020. The market for communication papers competes heavily with electronic data transmission and document storage alternatives. Increasing shifts to these alternatives have reduced usage of traditional print media and communication papers. Trade publications reported North American uncoated freesheet paper shipments were down 20.1% in 2020, compared to 2019. Average copy paper prices reported by a trade publication for cut size office papers decreased $15 per ton in May 2020 and $20 per ton in June 2020. 21 Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2020, Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2019 The historical results of operations of PCA for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 are set forth below (dollars in millions): Net Sales Net sales decreased $306 million, or 4.4%, to $6,658 million in 2020, compared to $6,964 million in 2019. Packaging. Net sales decreased $13 million, or 0.2%, to $5,919 million, compared to $5,932 million in 2019, due to lower prices and mix ($298 million), partially offset by increased volumes ($285 million), primarily due to strong corrugated products demand and shipments. In 2020, our domestic containerboard prices decreased 5.9% and export prices decreased 11.5% compared to 2019. Our containerboard outside shipments decreased 5.8%, and total corrugated products shipments were up 5.8% in total and 5.4% per workday, compared to 2019. Prices reported by trade publications, which serve as an index for prices for our corrugated products in many of our customer contracts, decreased by $10 per ton for linerboard and $15 per ton for corrugating medium in January, followed by a $50 per ton increase in linerboard and medium in November 2020. Paper. Net sales decreased $289 million, or 30.0%, to $675 million, compared to $964 million in 2019. The decrease was due to lower volume ($262 million) and prices and mix ($27 million), as demand was harmed by the COVID-19 pandemic due to office and school closures. Gross Profit Gross profit decreased $275 million in 2020, compared to 2019. The decrease was driven primarily by lower prices and mix in our Packaging and Paper segments, lower volumes in our Paper segment, higher freight and logistic expense, and higher annual outage expense, partially offset by higher volumes in our Packaging segment, and lower operating and converting costs.  In 2020, gross profit included $21 million of special item expense related to the impact of Hurricane Laura at our DeRidder, Louisiana mill, incremental out-of-pocket costs related to COVID-19, and facility closure costs, compared to no significant special items in 2019. 22 Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses Selling, general, and administrative expenses (SG&A) decreased $18 million in 2020, compared to 2019. The decrease was primarily due to lower travel and entertainment expenses and lower administrative and other corporate costs, partially offset by higher employee salaries and fringes. Goodwill Impairment During 2020, with the exacerbated deterioration in uncoated freesheet market conditions and the estimated impact on our Paper reporting unit arising from the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as projected future results of operations, we identified a triggering event indicating possible impairment of goodwill within our Paper reporting unit. The Company performed an interim quantitative impairment analysis as of May 31, 2020, and, based on the evaluation performed, we determined that goodwill was fully impaired for the Paper reporting unit and recognized a non-cash impairment charge of $55 million. For more information, see Note 8, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, of the Condensed Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements” of this Form 10-K. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 are set forth below (dollars in millions): We discuss these items in more detail in Note 6, Other Expense, Net of the Condensed Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements” of this Form 10-K. Income from Operations Income from operations decreased $330 million, or 31.3%, for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to 2019. Income from operations in 2020 included $100 million of expense for special items compared to $4 million in 2019. Special items in 2020 consisted of $55 million of expense for the Paper reporting unit goodwill impairment; $28 million of restructuring costs for paper administrative functions and closure costs related to corrugated products facilities; $10 million related to the impact of Hurricane Laura at our DeRidder, Louisiana mill; and $7 million of incremental, out-of-pocket costs related to COVID-19 that were incurred in the first half of 2020. 2019 special items included $3 million of charges for the disposal of fixed assets related to the containerboard mill conversion at our DeRidder, Louisiana mill and $1 million of charges related to the conversion of the Wallula, Washington mill No. 3 paper machine. Packaging. Segment income from operations decreased $134 million to $829 million, compared to $963 million in 2019. The decrease in 2020 related primarily to lower containerboard and corrugated products prices and mix ($246 million) and higher depreciation expense ($14 million), partially offset by higher containerboard and corrugated products sales and production volumes ($90 million), lower operating and converting costs ($55 million), lower annual outage expense ($5 million), lower freight expense ($4 million) and other fixed costs ($10 million). Special items in 2020 included expense of $27 million of closure costs for corrugated products facilities, $10 million of charges related to the impact of Hurricane Laura at our DeRidder, Louisiana mill, and $6 million of incremental, out-of-pocket costs related to COVID-19. Special items in 2019 included $3 million for the disposal of fixed assets related to the containerboard mill conversion at our DeRidder, Louisiana mill and $1 million of charges related to the conversion of the Wallula No. 3 paper machine. Paper. Segment income from operations decreased $195 million to a loss of $20 million, compared to income of $175 million in 2019. The decrease primarily related to lower sales and production volumes ($130 million), lower paper prices and mix ($27 million), higher annual outage expense ($11 million), and higher freight expense ($11 million), partially offset by lower operating costs ($39 million), and lower depreciation expense ($1 million). Special items in the Paper segment in 2020 included $55 million related to goodwill impairment, $1 million of restructuring costs for paper administrative functions, and $1 million of incremental, out-of-pocket costs related to COVID-19, compared to an insignificant amount of special items in the Paper segment in 2019. 23 Non-Operating Pension Expense, Interest Expense, Net and Income Taxes During 2020, non-operating pension expense decreased $10 million compared to 2019. The decrease in non-operating pension expense was primarily related to the favorable 2019 asset performance, partially offset by assumption changes. Interest expense, net, during 2020 decreased $35 million compared to 2019. The decrease is primarily related to higher interest expense during 2019 as a result of the Company’s November 2019 debt refinancing, partially offset by lower interest income due to lower rates on invested cash balances in 2020. During 2020, we recorded $172 million of income tax expense, compared with $221 million of income tax expense during 2019. The effective tax rate for 2020 and 2019 was 27.1% and 24.1%, respectively. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources and Uses of Cash Our primary sources of liquidity are net cash provided by operating activities and available borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility. We ended the year with $975 million of cash and cash equivalents, $148 million of marketable debt securities, and $326 million of unused borrowing capacity under the revolving credit facility, net of letters of credit. Currently, our primary uses of cash are for operations, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service, common stock dividends, and repurchases of common stock. We believe that net cash generated from operating activities, cash on hand, available borrowings under our revolving credit facility and available capital through access to capital markets will be adequate to meet our liquidity and capital requirements, including payments of any declared common stock dividends, for the foreseeable future. As our debt or credit facilities become due, we will need to repay, extend or replace such facilities. Our ability to do so will be subject to future economic conditions and financial, business, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Below is a summary table of our cash flows, followed by a discussion of our sources and uses of cash through operating activities, investing activities, and financing activities (dollars in millions): Operating Activities Our operating cash flow is primarily driven by our earnings and changes in operating assets and liabilities, such as accounts receivable, inventories, accounts payable and other accrued liabilities, as well as other factors described below. Cash requirements for operating activities are subject to PCA's operating needs and the timing of collection of receivables and payments of payables and expenses. During 2020, net cash provided by operating activities was $1,033 million, compared to $1,207 million for 2019, a decrease of $174 million. Cash from operations excluding changes in cash used for operating assets and liabilities decreased $243 million, primarily due to lower income from operations as discussed above, as well as higher pension contributions made in 2020 compared to 2019 of $25 million. Cash increased by $69 million due to favorable changes in operating assets and liabilities, primarily due to the following: These favorable changes were partially offset by the following: 24 Investing Activities We used $426 million for investing activities in 2020, compared to $547 million in 2019. In 2020, we spent $421 million for internal capital investments, compared to $400 million in 2019. During both 2020 and 2019, we did not acquire any businesses. In 2020, we used $3 million of cash-on-hand to purchase available-for-sale (AFS) marketable debt securities, net of redemptions, compared to $146 million in 2019. The details of capital expenditures for property and equipment, excluding acquisitions, by segment for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 are included in the table below (dollars in millions). We expect capital investments in 2021 to be between $500 million and $525 million, excluding capital spending related to the potential conversion of the No. 3 paper machine to containerboard at our Jackson mill. These expenditures could increase or decrease as a result of a number of factors, including our financial results, strategic opportunities, future economic conditions, and our regulatory compliance requirements. We currently estimate capital expenditures to comply with environmental regulations will be about $20 million in 2021. Our estimated environmental expenditures could vary significantly depending upon the enactment of new environmental laws and regulations. For additional information, see “Environmental Matters” in this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. At December 31, 2020, the Company had commitments for capital expenditures of $304.2 million. The Company believes that cash-on-hand combined with cash flow from operations will be sufficient to fund these commitments. Financing Activities In 2020, net cash used for financing activities was $312 million, compared to $343 million of cash used for financing activities in 2019, a decrease of $31 million. We paid $300 million in dividends on our common stock in 2020, compared to $299 million paid in 2019. In 2019, we refinanced $900 million principal amount of our long term debt. Payments to redeem our old debt, including redemption premiums, exceeded the proceeds received from issuing the new debt by $27 million. We also paid $8 million of debt issuance costs. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information on the debt refinancing. 25 Commit ments Contractual Obligations The table below sets forth our enforceable and legally binding obligations as of December 31, 2020 for the categories described below. Some of the amounts included in the table are based on management's estimates and assumptions about these obligations, including their duration, the possibility of renewal, anticipated actions by third parties, and other factors. Because these estimates and assumptions are necessarily subjective, our actual payments may vary from those reflected in the table. Purchase orders made in the ordinary course of business are excluded from the table below. Any amounts for which we are liable under purchase orders are reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as accounts payable and accrued liabilities (dollars in millions): 26 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2020. Inflation and Other General Cost Increases We are subject to both contractual, inflation, and other general cost increases. If we are unable to offset these cost increases by price increases, growth, and/or cost reductions in our operations, these inflation and other general cost increases could have a material adverse effect on our operating cash flows, profitability, and liquidity. In 2020, our total company costs including cost of sales (COS) and selling, general, and administrative expenses (SG&A) was $5.8 billion, and excluding non-cash costs (depreciation, depletion and amortization, pension and postretirement expense, and share-based compensation expense) was $5.4 billion. A 1% increase in COS and SG&A costs would increase costs by $58 million and cash costs by $54 million. Certain items of product input costs have historically been subject to more cost volatility including fiber, purchased energy, and chemicals. Energy In 2020, our mills, including both packaging and paper mills, consumed about 93 million MMBTUs of fuel, including internally generated and externally purchased, to produce both steam and electricity. The following table for 2020 provides the total MMBTUs purchased externally by fuel type each quarter and the average cost per MMBTU by fuel type for the year. Our mills represent about 90% of our total purchased fuel costs. The cost per MMBTU includes the cost of the fuel plus our transportation and delivery costs. In addition, the mills purchased 22.64 million CkWh (hundred kilowatt-hours) of electricity in 2020. The purchases by quarter and the average cost per CkWh were as follows: 27 Regulatory and Environme nt al Matters Our operations are subject to our compliance with the laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, primarily in the United States. Of particular importance are laws and regulations relating to the environment and health and safety matters. Environmental compliance requirements are a significant factor affecting our business. We employ processes in the manufacture of containerboard, paper, and pulp, which result in various discharges, emissions and waste disposal. These processes are subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. We operate and expect to continue to operate, under environmental permits and similar authorizations from various governmental authorities that regulate such discharges, emissions, and waste disposal. The most significant of these laws affecting the Company are: We believe that we are currently in material compliance with these and all applicable environmental rules and regulations. Because environmental regulations are constantly evolving, the Company has incurred, and will continue to incur, costs to maintain compliance with these and other environmental laws. The Company works diligently to anticipate and budget for the impact of applicable environmental regulations, and does not currently expect that future environmental compliance obligations will materially affect its business or financial condition. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, we spent $44 million, $41 million, and $40 million, respectively, to comply with the requirements of these and other environmental laws. Additionally, we had $9 million of environmental capital expenditures in both 2020 and 2019 and $7 million in 2018. In January 2013, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) established a three-year deadline for compliance with the Boiler MACT regulations, establishing air emissions standards and certain other requirements for industrial boilers. PCA's compliance actions involved modifying or replacing certain boilers, and all PCA mills are in full compliance with Boiler MACT requirements. On July 29, 2016, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit issued a ruling on the consolidated cases challenging Boiler MACT. The court vacated key portions of the rule, including emission limits for certain subcategories of solid fuel boilers, and remanded issues to the EPA for further rulemaking. At this time, we cannot predict with certainty how this decision will impact our existing Boiler MACT compliance efforts or whether we will incur additional costs to comply with any revised standards. As is the case with any industrial operation, PCA has, in the past, incurred costs associated with the remediation of soil or groundwater contamination, as required by the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as the federal “Superfund” law, and analogous state laws. Cleanup requirements arise with respect to properties the Company currently owns or operates, former facilities and off-site facilities where the Company has disposed of hazardous substances. As part of the sale to PCA of the containerboard and corrugated products business of Pactiv Corporation in April 1999, Pactiv agreed to retain all liability for all former facilities and all sites associated with pre-closing off-site waste disposal. Pactiv also retained environmentally impaired real property in Filer City, Michigan unrelated to current mill operations. In addition, OfficeMax (now an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Office Depot) retains responsibility for certain environmental liabilities related to some of the businesses, facilities, and assets we acquired from Boise. Generally, this responsibility relates to hazardous substance releases and other environmental incidents that arose before 2004. Some of these liabilities could be significant; however, Office Depot may not have sufficient funds to satisfy its indemnification obligations, and in some cases, we may not be entitled to such indemnification. Because liability for remediation costs under environmental laws is strict, meaning that liability is imposed without fault, joint and several, meaning that liability is imposed on each party without regard to contribution, and retroactive, PCA could receive notifications of cleanup liability in the future and this liability could be material. From 2006 through 2020, there were no significant environmental remediation costs at PCA's mills and corrugated plants. As of December 31, 2020, we maintained an environmental reserve of $23.6 million relating to on-site landfills and surface impoundments as well as ongoing and anticipated remedial projects. The Company believes that it is not reasonably possible that future environmental expenses above the $23.6 million accrued at December 31, 2020, will have a material impact on its financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 28 While legislation regarding the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions has been proposed at the federal level, it is uncertain whether such legislation will be passed and, if so, what the breadth and scope of such legislation will be. The result of the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could be an increase in our future environmental compliance costs, through caps, taxes or additional capital expenditures to modify facilities, which may be material. However, climate change legislation and the resulting future energy policy could also provide us with opportunities if the use of renewable energy is encouraged. We currently self-generate the majority o f our power requirements at our mills using bark, black liquor and biomass as fuel, which are derived from renewable resources. While we believe we are well-positioned to take advantage of any renewable energy incentives, it is uncertain what the ultimate costs and opportunities of any climate change legislation will be and how our business and industry will be affected. We are also subject to extensive federal, state and local laws related to workplace health and safety, and our safety management system includes measures to assure compliance with these laws and regulations. We do not believe that future compliance with health and safety laws and regulations will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Company’s consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, PCA evaluates its estimates, including those related to business combinations, goodwill and intangible assets, pensions and other postretirement benefits, environmental liabilities, income taxes, and long-lived asset impairment, among others. PCA bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Critical accounting estimates are those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results. These estimates require management's most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments. We review the development, selection, and disclosure of our critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. The Company believes that of its significant accounting policies, the following involve a higher degree of judgment and/or complexity: Pensions The Company accounts for defined benefit pension plans in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 715, Compensation - Retirement Benefits . The calculation of pension expense and pension liabilities requires decisions about a number of key assumptions that can significantly affect expense and liability amounts, including discount rates, expected return on plan assets, expected rate of compensation increases, longevity and service lives of participants, expected contributions, and other factors. The pension assumptions used to measure pension expense and liabilities are discussed in Note 12, Employee Benefit Plans and Other Postretirement Benefits. We recognize the funded status of our pension plans on our Consolidated Balance Sheet and recognize the actuarial and experience gains and losses and the prior service costs and credits as a component of “Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss” in our Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders' Equity. Actual results that differ from assumptions are accumulated and amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect recognized expense in future periods. At December 31, 2020, we had approximately $144.2 million of actuarial losses and prior service costs, net of tax, recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss” on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Accumulated losses in excess of 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market-related value of assets will be recognized on a straight-line basis over the average remaining service period of active employees in PCA plans (which is between seven and nine years) and over the average remaining lifetime of inactive participants of Boise plans (which is between 23 and 26 years), to the extent that losses are not offset by gains in subsequent years. While we believe that the assumptions used to measure our pension obligations are reasonable, differences in actual experience or changes in assumptions may materially affect our pension obligations and future expense. 29 We believe that the accounting estimate related to pensions is a critical accounting estimate because it is highly susceptible to change from period to period. As discussed above, the future effects of pension plans on our financial position and results of operations will depend on economic conditions, employee demographics, mortality rates, retirement rates, investment performance, and funding decisions, among other factors. The following table presents selected assumptions used and expected to be used in the measurement of pension expense in the following periods (dollars in millions): A change of 0.25% in either direction to the discount rate or the expected rate of return on plan assets would have had the following effect on 2020 and 2021 pension expense (dollars in millions): For more information related to our pension benefit plans, see Note 12, Employee Benefit Plans and Other Postretirement Benefits, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K. Goodwill Impairment Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquired business over the fair value of the identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. At December 31, 2020, we had $863.5 million of goodwill, all of which was recorded in the Packaging segment. We test goodwill for impairment annually in the fourth quarter or sooner if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset may exceed fair value. During the second quarter of 2020, with the exacerbated deterioration in uncoated freesheet market conditions arising from the COVID-19 pandemic and the estimated impact on our Paper segment and its projected future results of operations, we identified a triggering event indicating possible impairment of goodwill within our Paper reporting unit and performed an interim quantitative impairment analysis as of May 31, 2020. For additional information, see Note 8, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K. Based on the evaluation performed, we determined that the carrying value of the Paper reporting unit exceeded its fair value, which resulted in a goodwill impairment charge totaling $55.2 million, the full amount of goodwill associated with the Paper reporting unit. At December 31, 2020, we had $0 million of goodwill recorded in the Paper segment. Under ASU 2017-04 (Topic 350), Intangibles - Goodwill and Other – Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment , companies are no longer required to determine the fair value of individual assets and liabilities of a reporting unit to measure goodwill impairment, thus eliminating Step Two of the analysis that was required under the prior guidance. Under ASU 2017-04, goodwill impairment testing is performed by comparing the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying amount and 30 recognizing an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value. The Company adopted this ASU prospectively beginning with its annual goodwill impairment test in the fourth quarter of 2017. The update to the standard does not eliminate the optional qualitative assessment of goodwill impairment that is often used to determine if the quantitative assessment is necessary. The qualitative assessment requires the evaluation of certain events and circumstances such as macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors and overall financial performance, as well as company and reporting unit specific items. If, after assessing these qualitative factors, the Company determines that it is more likely than not that the carrying value of the reporting unit is less than its fair value, then no further testing is required. Otherwise, the Company would perform a quantitative analysis. The quantitative analysis requires companies to compare the fair value of the reporting units to which goodwill was assigned to their respective carrying values. In calculating fair value, we use the income approach as our primary indicator of fair value. Under the income approach, we calculate the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows (Level 3 measurement). These estimates are based on a number of factors including industry experience, business expectations and the economic environment. If the fair value exceeds the carrying value, no further work is required and no impairment loss is recognized. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value, the goodwill of the reporting unit is potentially impaired, and the carrying value of goodwill is then reduced to the implied value, or to zero if the fair value of the assets exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, through an impairment charge. During the annual goodwill impairment test performed in the fourth quarter of 2020, we assessed qualitative factors to determine whether it was more likely than not that the fair value of the Packaging reporting unit was less than its carrying value. Based on the results of the qualitative impairment test, we determined that it was more likely than not that the carrying value was less than the fair value of the Packaging reporting unit. If management's estimates of future operating results materially change or if there are changes to other assumptions, the estimated fair value of our goodwill could change significantly. Such change could result in impairment charges in future periods, which could have a significant noncash impact on our operating results and financial condition. We cannot predict the occurrence of future events that might adversely affect the reported value of our goodwill. As additional information becomes known, we may change our estimates. Long-Lived Asset Impairment An impairment of a long-lived asset exists when the carrying value of an asset is not recoverable through future undiscounted cash flows from operations and when the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair value. Long-lived asset impairment is a critical accounting estimate, as it is susceptible to change from period to period. During the second quarter of 2020, with the exacerbated deterioration in uncoated freesheet market conditions arising from the COVID-19 pandemic and the estimated impact on our Paper segment and its projected future results of operations, we identified a triggering event indicating possible impairment of our long lived assets within our Paper segment, including property, plant, and equipment, and performed a recoverability test on the Paper reporting unit long lived assets as of May 31, 2020. The recoverability test was based on forecasts of undiscounted cash flows. The results of the recoverability test indicated that the long lived assets within our Paper segment, inclusive of property, plant, and equipment, were 100% recoverable. We review the carrying value of long-lived assets, including intangible assets, for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of assets may not be recoverable. For purposes of testing for impairment, we group our long-lived assets at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows from other assets and liabilities. Our asset groupings vary based on the related business in which the long-lived asset is employed and the interrelationship between those long-lived assets in producing net cash flows. Asset groupings could change in the future if changes in the operations of the business or business environment affect the way particular long-lived assets are employed or the interrelationships between assets. To estimate whether the carrying value of an asset or asset group is impaired, we estimate the undiscounted cash flows that could be generated under a range of possible outcomes. To measure future cash flows, we are required to make assumptions about future production volumes, future product pricing, and future expenses to be incurred. In addition, estimates of future cash flows may change based on the availability of fiber, environmental requirements, capital spending, and other strategic management decisions. We estimate the fair value of an asset or asset group based on quoted market prices for similar assets and liabilities or inputs that are observable either directly (Level 1 measurement) or indirectly (the amount for which the asset(s) could be bought or sold in a current transaction with a third party) when available (Level 2 measurement). When quoted market prices are not available, we use a discounted cash flow model to estimate fair value (Level 3 measurement). 31 We periodically assess the estimated useful lives of our assets. Changes in circumstances, such as changes to our operational or capital strategy, changes in regulation, or technological advances, may result in the actual useful lives differing from our estimates. Revisions to the estimated useful lives of assets requires judgment and constitutes a change in accounting estimate, which is accounted for prospectively by adjusting or accelerating depreciation and amortization rates. In 2020 and 2019 , we recognized incremental depreciation expense of $ 4.5 million and $0.3 million, respectively . The incremental depreciation expense for 2020 related to closures of corrugated products facilities, while the incremental depreciation expense for 2019 primarily related to the second quarter 2018 discontinuation of uncoated free sheet and coated one-side white paper grades at the Wallula, Washington mill associated with the conversion of the No. 3 paper machine to produce virgin kraft linerboard. New and Recently Adopted Accounting Standards For a listing of our new and recently adopted accounting standards, see Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K. Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Reported Amounts Net income excluding special items, EBITDA, and EBITDA excluding special items are non-GAAP financial measures. Management excludes special items, as it believes that these items are not necessarily reflective of the ongoing operations of our business. These measures are presented because they provide a means to evaluate the performance of our segments and our Company on an ongoing basis using the same measures that are used by our management, because these measures assist in providing a meaningful comparison between periods and because these measures are frequently used by investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of companies and the performance of their segments. Any analysis of non-GAAP financial measures should be done in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. The non-GAAP measures are not intended to be substitutes for GAAP financial measures and should not be used as such. Reconciliations of the non-GAAP measures to the most comparable measure reported in accordance with GAAP for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 follow (dollars in millions): 32 The following table reconciles net income to EBITDA and EBITDA excluding special items for the periods indicated (dollars in millions): 33 The following table reconciles segment income (loss) to EBITDA and EBITDA excluding special items (dollars in millions):