********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Our operations and structure involve various risks that could adversely affect our business and financial condition, including but not limited to, our financial position, results of operations, cash flow, ability to make distributions and payments to security holders and the market value of our securities. These risks relate to Prologis as well as our investments in consolidated and unconsolidated entities and include among others, (i) risks related to our global operations (ii) risks related to our business; (iii) risks related to financing and capital; and (iv) risks related to income taxes. Risks Related to our Global Operations As a global company, we are subject to social, geopolitical and economic risks of doing business in many countries and our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We conduct a significant portion of our business and employ a substantial number of people outside of the U.S. During 2023, we generated approximately $632 million or 7.9% of our consolidated revenues from operations outside the U.S. Circumstances and developments related to international operations that could negatively affect us include, but are not limited to, the following factors: • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations in certain geographies, including differing employment practices and labor issues; • local businesses and cultural factors that differ from our domestic standards and practices; • volatility in currencies and currency restrictions, which may prevent the availability of capital or the transfer of profits to the U.S.; 13 • challenges in establishing effective controls and procedures to regulate operations in different geographies and to monitor compliance with applicable regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) Bribery Act and other similar laws; • changes in regulatory and environmental requirements, taxes, tariffs, trade wars and laws within the countries in which we operate; • the responsibility of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws, e.g., with respect to corrupt practices, human rights, employment and licensing; • changes in general economic conditions from inflation, elevated interest rates, regional or country-specific business cycles, supply chain disruptions, economic downturns or recessions and economic instability, including government shutdowns and withdrawals from the European Union or other international trade alliances or agreements; • political instability, uncertainty over property rights, territorial disputes, military conflict, war or expansion of hostilities, civil unrest, drug trafficking, political activism or the continuation or escalation of terrorist or gang activities; • public health crises, such as outbreaks of global pandemics or contagious diseases; • foreign ownership restrictions in operations with the respective countries; and • access to capital may be more restricted, or unavailable on favorable terms or at all in certain locations. In addition, we may be impacted by the ability of our non-U.S. subsidiaries to dividend or otherwise transfer cash among our subsidiaries due to currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations and potentially adverse tax consequences, among other factors. We cannot predict the extent to which these social, geopolitical and economic risks may impact our business and operating results and that of our co-investment ventures, but their impact may include the following: • existing customers and potential customers of our logistics facilities may be adversely affected by the decrease in economic activity, changes in regulation or disruptions in the supply chain, which in turn could disrupt their business and their ability to enter into new leasing transactions or satisfy rental payments; • government, labor or other restrictions may prevent us from completing the development or leasing of properties currently under development or making our properties ready for our customers to move in; • our ability to recover our investments in real estate assets may be impacted by current market conditions; • increases in material costs as a result of labor shortages and supply chain disruptions may make the development of properties more costly than we originally budgeted or impact transportation routes of our suppliers or our customers; and • our workforce, including our executives, may become ill or have difficulty working remotely, caring for our properties and/or customers creating inefficiencies, delays or disruptions in our business. Any prolonged economic downturn, disruption in the financial markets or public health crises may also impact our ability to access capital markets to issue debt or equity securities and to complete real estate transactions at attractive pricing or at all. These items may materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and real estate values. Compliance or failure to comply with regulatory requirements could result in substantial costs. We are required to comply with many regulations in different countries, including (but not limited to) the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar laws and regulations. Our properties are also subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as the Americans with Disabilities Act and state and local fire, life-safety, energy and greenhouse gas emissions requirements. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of governmental fines or the award of damages to private litigants. While we believe that we are currently in material compliance with these regulatory requirements, the requirements may change or new requirements may be imposed that could require significant unanticipated expenditures by us. Disruptions in the global capital and credit markets may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. To the extent there is turmoil in the global financial markets, this turmoil has the potential to adversely affect (i) the value of our properties; (ii) the availability or the terms of financing that we have or may anticipate utilizing; (iii) our ability to make principal and 14 interest payments on, or refinance any outstanding debt when due; and (iv) the ability of our customers to enter into new leasing transactions or satisfy rental payments under existing leases. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets may also adversely affect the market price of our securities and our ability to make distributions and payments to our security holders. The depreciation in the value of the foreign currency in countries where we have a significant investment may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. We hold significant real estate investments in international markets where the U.S. dollar is not the functional currency. At December 31, 2023, approximately $10.6 billion or 11.4% of our total consolidated assets were invested in a currency other than the U.S. dollar, principally the British pound sterling, Canadian dollar, euro, and Japanese yen. For the year ended December 31, 2023, $303.7 million or 5.1% of our total consolidated segment NOI was denominated in a currency other than the U.S. dollar. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for more information on these amounts. As a result, we are subject to foreign currency risk due to potential fluctuations in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar. While we endeavor to manage this risk through our hedging and financing activities, a significant change in the value of the foreign currency of one or more countries where we have a significant investment may have a material adverse effect on our business and, specifically, our U.S. dollar reported financial position and results of operations. Our hedging of foreign currency and interest rate risk may not effectively limit our exposure to these risks. We attempt to mitigate our risk by borrowing in the currencies in which we have significant investments thereby providing a natural hedge. We may also enter into derivative financial instruments that we designate as net investment hedges, as these amounts offset the translation adjustments on the underlying net assets of our foreign investments. We enter into other foreign currency contracts, such as forwards, to reduce fluctuations in foreign currency cash flow associated with the translation of future earnings of our international subsidiaries. Although we attempt to mitigate the potential adverse effects of changes in foreign currency rates there can be no assurance that those attempts will be successful. In addition, we occasionally use interest rate contracts to manage interest rate risk and limit the impact of future interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows. Hedging arrangements involve risks, such as the risk of fluctuation in the relative value of the foreign currency or interest rates and the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. The funds required to settle such arrangements could be significant depending on the stability and movement of the hedged foreign currency or the size of the underlying financing and the applicable interest rates at the time of the breakage. The failure to hedge effectively against foreign exchange changes or interest rate changes may adversely affect our business. Risks Related to our Business General economic conditions and other events or occurrences that affect areas in which our properties are geographically concentrated, may impact financial results. We are exposed to the economic conditions and other events and occurrences in the local, regional, national and international geographies in which we own properties. Our operating performance is further impacted by the economic conditions of the specific markets in which we have concentrations of properties. At December 31, 2023, 30.0% of our consolidated operating properties or $22.7 billion (based on consolidated gross book value, or investment before depreciation) were located in California (Central Valley, San Francisco Bay Area and Southern California markets), which represented 23.2% of the aggregate square footage of our operating properties and 31.7% of our consolidated operating property NOI. Our revenues from, and the value of, our properties located in California may be affected by local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of or reduced demand for logistics properties) and the local economic climate. Business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors may adversely impact California’s economic climate. Because of the investment we have located in California, a downturn in California’s economy or real estate conditions, including state income tax and property tax laws, could adversely affect our business. In addition to California, we also have significant holdings (defined as more than 3% of total consolidated investment before depreciation) in operating properties in certain markets located in Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas/Fort Worth, Houston, Lehigh Valley, New Jersey/New York City, Seattle and South Florida. Of these markets, no single market contributed more than 10% of our total consolidated investment before depreciation in operating properties, with the exception of New Jersey/New York City at 10.6%. Our operating performance could be adversely affected if conditions become less favorable in any of the markets in which we have a concentration of properties. Conditions such as an oversupply of logistics space or a reduction in demand for logistics space, among other factors, may impact operating conditions. Any material oversupply of logistics space or material reduction in demand for logistics space could adversely affect our overall business. Our O&M portfolio, which includes our consolidated properties and properties owned by our unconsolidated co-investment ventures, has concentrations of properties in the same markets mentioned above, as well as in markets in Japan and the U.K., and are subject to the economic conditions in those markets. 15 Real estate investments are not as liquid as certain other types of assets, which may reduce economic returns to investors. Real estate investments are not as liquid as certain other types of investments and this lack of liquidity may limit our ability to react promptly to changes in economic or other conditions. Significant expenditures associated with real estate investments, such as secured mortgage debt payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investments. As a REIT, under the IRC, we are only able to hold property for sale in the ordinary course of business through taxable REIT subsidiaries in order to not incur punitive taxation on any tax gain from the sale of such property. We may dispose of certain properties that have been held for investment to generate liquidity. If we do not satisfy certain safe harbors or we believe there is too much risk of incurring the punitive tax on any tax gain from the sale, we may not pursue such sales. We may decide to sell or contribute properties to certain of our co-investment ventures or sell properties to third parties to generate proceeds to fund our capital deployment activities. Our ability to sell or contribute properties on advantageous terms is affected by: (i) competition from other owners of properties that are trying to dispose of their properties; (ii) economic and market conditions, including the capitalization rates applicable to our properties; and (iii) other factors beyond our control. If our competitors sell assets similar to assets we intend to divest in the same markets or at valuations below our valuations for comparable assets, we may be unable to divest our assets at favorable pricing or at all. The co-investment ventures or third parties who might acquire our properties may need to have access to debt and equity capital, in the private and public markets, in order to acquire properties from us. Should they have limited or no access to capital on favorable terms, then dispositions and contributions could be delayed. If we do not have sufficient cash available to us through our operations, sales or contributions of properties or available credit facilities to continue operating our business as usual, we may need to find alternative ways to increase our liquidity. Such alternatives may include, without limitation, divesting properties at less than optimal terms, incurring debt, entering into leases with new customers at lower rental rates or less than optimal terms or entering into lease renewals with our existing customers without an increase in rental rates. There can be no assurance, however, that such alternative ways to increase our liquidity will be available to us. Additionally, taking such measures to increase our liquidity may adversely affect our business, and in particular, our distributable cash flow and debt covenants. Our investments are concentrated in the logistics sector and our business would be adversely affected by an economic downturn in that sector. Our investments in real estate assets are concentrated in the logistics sector. This concentration may expose us to the risk of economic downturns in this sector to a greater extent than if our business activities were more diversified. Investments in real estate properties are subject to risks that could adversely affect our business. Investments in real estate properties are subject to varying degrees of risk. While we seek to minimize these risks through geographic diversification of our portfolio, market research and our asset management capabilities, these risks cannot be eliminated. Factors that may affect real estate values and cash flows include: • local conditions, such as oversupply or a reduction in demand; • technological changes, such as reconfiguration of supply chains, autonomous vehicles, robotics, 3D printing or other technologies; • the attractiveness of our properties to potential customers and competition from other available properties; • increasing costs of maintaining, insuring, renovating and making improvements to our properties; • our ability to reposition our properties due to changes in the business and logistics needs of our customers; • our ability to lease the properties at favorable rates and control variable operating costs; and • governmental and environmental regulations and the associated potential liability under, and changes in, environmental, zoning, usage, tax, tariffs and other laws. These factors may affect our ability to recover our investment in the properties and result in impairment charges. Our customers may be unable to meet their lease obligations, we may be unable to lease vacant space or renew leases or re-lease space on favorable terms as leases expire. Our operating results and distributable cash flow would be adversely affected if a significant number of our customers were unable to meet their lease obligations. At December 31, 2023, our top 10 customers accounted for 15.8% of our consolidated NER and 14.5% of our O&M NER. In the event of default by a significant number of customers, we may experience delays and incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights as landlord, and we may be unable to re-lease spaces. A customer may experience a downturn in its business, 16 which may cause the loss of the customer or may weaken its financial condition, resulting in the customer’s failure to make rental payments when due or requiring a restructuring that might reduce cash flow from the lease. In addition, a customer may seek the protection of bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws, which could result in the rejection and termination of such customer’s lease and thereby cause a reduction in our available cash flow. We are also subject to the risk that, upon the expiration of leases they may not be renewed by existing customers, the space may not be re-leased to new customers or the terms of renewal or re-leasing (including the cost of required renovations or concessions to customers) may be less favorable to us than current lease terms. Our competitors may offer space at rental rates below current market rates or below the rental rates we currently charge our customers and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge to retain customers when leases expire or we may lose potential customers. Additionally, rising inflation or costs could negatively impact our net operating income on existing leases with contractual guaranteed base rent and fixed charges, inclusive of certain rental expenses. We may acquire properties and companies that involve risks that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. We have acquired properties and will continue to acquire properties through the direct acquisition of real estate, the acquisition of entities that own real estate or through additional investments in co-investment ventures that acquire properties. The acquisition of properties involves risks, including the risk that the acquired property will not perform as anticipated and that any actual costs for rehabilitation, repositioning, renovation and improvements identified in the pre-acquisition due diligence process will exceed estimates. When we acquire properties, we may face risks associated with entering a new market such as a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, forging new business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local government and permitting procedures. Additionally, there is, and it is expected there will continue to be, significant competition for properties that meet our investment criteria as well as risks associated with obtaining financing for acquisition activities. The acquired properties or entities may be subject to liabilities, including tax liabilities, which may be without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. As a result, if a liability were asserted against us based on our new ownership of any of these entities or properties, then we may have to pay substantial sums to settle it. We may be unable to integrate the operations of newly acquired companies and realize the anticipated synergies and other benefits or do so within the anticipated timeframe. Potential difficulties we may encounter in the integration process include: (i) the inability to dispose of non-industrial assets or operations that are outside of our area of expertise; (ii) potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses, delays or regulatory conditions associated with these transactions; and (iii) performance shortfalls as a result of the diversion of management’s attention caused by completing these transactions and integrating the companies’ operations. Our real estate development and redevelopment strategies may not be successful. Our real estate development and redevelopment strategy is focused on monetizing land and redevelopment sites in the future through development of logistics facilities to hold for long-term investment and for contribution or sale to a co-investment venture or third party, depending on market conditions, our liquidity needs and other factors. We may increase our investment in the development, renovation and redevelopment business and we expect to complete the build-out and leasing of our current development portfolio. We may also develop, renovate and redevelop properties within existing or newly formed co-investment ventures. The real estate development, renovation and redevelopment business includes the following significant risks: • we may not be able to obtain financing for development projects on favorable terms or at all; • we may explore development opportunities that may be abandoned and the related investment impaired; • we may not be able to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other governmental permits and authorizations; • we may incur higher construction costs, due primarily to this inflationary environment, or additional costs related to regulation that exceed our estimates and projects may not be completed, delivered or stabilized as planned due to defects or other issues; • we may not be able to attract third-party investment in new development co-investment ventures or sufficient customer demand for our product; • we may have properties that perform below anticipated levels, producing cash flows below budgeted amounts; • we may seek to sell certain land parcels and not be able to find a third party to acquire such land or the sales price will not allow us to recover our investment, resulting in impairment charges; • we may not be able to lease properties we develop on favorable terms or at all; • we may not be able to capture the anticipated enhanced value created by our value-added properties on expected timetables or at all; 17 • we may experience delays (temporary or permanent) if there is public or government opposition to our activities; and • we may have substantial renovation, new development and redevelopment activities, regardless of their ultimate success, that require a significant amount of management’s time and attention, diverting their attention from our day-to-day operations. We are subject to risks and liabilities in connection with forming and attracting third-party investment in co-investment ventures, investing in new or existing co-investment ventures, and managing properties through co-investment ventures. At December 31, 2023, we had investments in co-investment ventures, both public and private, that owned real estate with a gross book value of approximately $62.9 billion. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of available funds that we may invest in these ventures, and we may and currently intend to develop and acquire properties through co-investment ventures and investments in other entities when warranted by the circumstances. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to form new co-investment ventures, or attract third-party investment or that additional investments in new or existing ventures to develop or acquire properties will be successful. Further, there can be no assurance that we are able to realize value from our existing or future investments. The same factors that impact the valuation of our consolidated portfolio, as discussed above, also impact the portfolios held by the co-investment ventures and could result in other than temporary impairment of our investment and a reduction in fee revenues. Our co-investment ventures involve certain additional risks that we do not otherwise face, including: • our partners may share certain approval rights over major decisions made on behalf of the ventures; • our partners may seek to redeem their investment, and may do so simultaneously, causing the venture to seek capital to satisfy these requests on less than optimal terms; • if our partners fail to fund their share of any required capital contributions, then we may choose to contribute such capital; • our partners might have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals that would affect our ability to operate the venture; • the venture or other governing agreements often restrict the transfer of an interest in the co-investment venture or may otherwise restrict our ability to sell the interest when we desire or on advantageous terms; • our relationships with our partners are generally contractual in nature and may be terminated or dissolved under the terms of the agreements, and in such event, we may not continue to invest in or manage the assets underlying such relationships resulting in a decrease in our assets under management and a reduction in fee revenues. This may also require us to acquire the properties in order to maintain an investment in the portfolio; and • disputes between us and our partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on our business and result in subjecting the properties owned by the applicable co-investment venture to additional risk. We generally seek to maintain sufficient influence over our co-investment ventures to permit us to achieve our business objectives; however, we may not be able to continue to do so indefinitely. We have formed publicly traded investment vehicles, such as NPR and FIBRA Prologis, for which we serve as sponsor or manager. These entities bear their own risks related to trading markets, foreign currency exchange rates and market demand. We have contributed, and may continue to contribute, assets into such vehicles. There is a risk that our managerial relationship may be terminated. We have also made investments in early and growth-stage companies that are focused on emerging technology. These companies may not be successful at raising additional capital or generating cash flows to sustain operations, which could result in the impairment of our investment. In addition, through Prologis Essentials we are investing in the development of new business lines that are complementary to our core business. These business lines may not be successful and may include risks that are different than investing in our core real estate business. We are exposed to various environmental risks, which may result in unanticipated losses that could affect our business and financial condition. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner, developer or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances. The costs of removal or remediation of such substances could be substantial. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of such hazardous substances. In addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages based on personal injury, property damage or other costs, including investigation and clean-up costs, resulting from the environmental contamination. 18 Environmental laws in some countries, including the U.S., also require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during building renovation or demolition. These laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos. Some of our properties are known to contain asbestos-containing building materials. In addition, some of our properties are leased or have been leased, in part, to owners and operators of businesses that use, store or otherwise handle petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, creating a potential for the release of such hazardous or toxic substances. Furthermore, certain of our properties are on, adjacent to or near other properties that have contained or currently contain petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances, or upon which others have engaged, are engaged or may engage in activities that may release such hazardous or toxic substances. From time to time, we may acquire properties, or interests in properties, with known adverse environmental conditions for which we believe that the environmental liabilities associated with these conditions are quantifiable and that the acquisition will yield a superior risk-adjusted return. In connection with certain divested properties, we have agreed to remain responsible for, and to bear the cost of, remediating or monitoring certain environmental conditions on the properties. We are exposed to the impacts of climate change and could be required to comply with new or stricter regulations, which may result in unanticipated losses that could affect our business and financial condition. We are also exposed to physical risks from changes in climate. Our logistics facilities and the global supply chain are and may continue to be exposed to catastrophic weather events, such as severe storms, fires or floods. If the frequency of extreme weather events increases, our exposure to these events could increase. We may also be adversely impacted by transition risks, such as potential impacts to the supply chain as a real estate developer or changes in laws and regulations, such as stricter energy efficiency standards or greenhouse gas regulations for the commercial building sectors. We cannot give any assurance that other such conditions do not exist or may not arise in the future. The impacts of climate change on our real estate properties could adversely affect our ability to lease, develop or sell such properties or to borrow using such properties as collateral. Our business and operations could suffer in the event of system failures or cybersecurity attacks. Despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal and hosted information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication failures and cybersecurity attacks, such as malware, ransomware, or unauthorized access. Any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. We may incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. Third-party security events at vendors, sub-processors, and service providers could also impact our data and operations via unauthorized access to information or disruption of services which may ultimately result in losses. Despite training, detection systems and response procedures, an increase in email attacks (phishing and business email compromise) may create disruption to our business, financial and reputational risk. Although security incidents have had an insignificant financial impact on our operating results, the growing frequency of attempts may lead to increased costs to protect the company and respond to any events, including additional personnel, consultants and protection technologies. Any compromise of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, unauthorized access to information of ours and others, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, loss or misuse of the information and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. Additionally, remediation costs for security events may not be covered by our insurance. Our insurance coverage does not cover all potential losses. We and our unconsolidated co-investment ventures carry insurance coverage including property damage and rental loss insurance resulting from certain perils such as fire and additional perils as covered under an extended coverage policy, namely windstorm, flood, earthquake and terrorism; commercial general liability insurance; and environmental insurance, as appropriate for the markets where each of our properties and business operations are located. The insurance coverage contains policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties, business activities and markets. We believe our properties and the properties of our co-investment ventures are adequately insured. Certain losses, however, including losses from floods, earthquakes, acts of war, acts of terrorism or riots and pandemics, generally are not insured against or not fully insured against because it is not deemed economically feasible or prudent to do so. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs with respect to one or more of our properties, we could experience a significant loss of capital invested and future revenues in these properties and could potentially remain obligated under any recourse debt associated with the property. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that the insurance companies will be able to continue to offer products with sufficient coverage at commercially reasonable rates. If we experience a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds insured limits with respect to one or more of our properties or if the insurance companies fail to meet their coverage commitments to us in the event of an insured loss, then we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties, as well as the anticipated future revenues from those properties and, if there 19 is recourse debt, then we would remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the properties. Any such losses or higher insurance costs could adversely affect our business. A number of our investments, both wholly owned and owned through co-investment ventures, are located in areas that are known to be subject to earthquake activity. U.S. properties located in active seismic areas include properties in our markets in California and Washington. International properties located in active seismic areas include Japan and Mexico. We generally carry earthquake insurance on our properties located in areas historically subject to seismic activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles, if we believe it is commercially reasonable. We evaluate our earthquake insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants and in some specific instances have elected to self-insure our earthquake exposure based on this analysis. We have elected not to carry earthquake insurance for our assets in Japan based on this analysis. See Item 2. Properties for more information on the markets above exposed to seismic activities. Furthermore, a number of our properties are located in areas that are known to be subject to hurricane or flood risk. We carry hurricane and flood hazard insurance on all of our properties located in areas historically subject to such activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles, if we believe it is commercially reasonable. We evaluate our insurance coverage annually in light of current industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside consultants. Our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. The design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. While management continually reviews the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. Deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal control over financial reporting that may occur in the future could result in misstatements or restatements of our financial statements or a decline in the price of our securities. Risks associated with our dependence on key personnel. We depend on the deep industry knowledge and the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. From time to time, our personnel and their roles may change. While we believe that we are able to retain our key talent and find suitable employees to meet our needs, the loss of key personnel, any change in their roles or the limitation of their availability could adversely affect our business. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain our executive officers or other key employees, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain such personnel become more expensive, our performance and competitive position could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Financing and Capital In order to meet REIT distribution requirements we may need access to external sources of capital. To qualify as a REIT, we are required each year to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gain) to our stockholders and we may be subject to tax to the extent our taxable income is not fully distributed. Historically, we have satisfied these distribution requirements by making cash distributions to our stockholders, however, we may elect to pay a portion of the distribution in shares of our stock. Assuming we continue to satisfy these distribution requirements with cash, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisition and development activities, from cash retained from operations and may have to rely on third-party sources of capital. Furthermore, to maintain our REIT status and not have to pay federal income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the REIT distribution requirements even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. These short-term borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. Our ability to access debt and equity capital on favorable terms or at all depends on a number of factors, including general market conditions, the market’s perception of our growth potential, our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of our securities. Covenants in our credit agreements could limit our flexibility and breaches of these covenants could adversely affect our financial condition. The terms of our various credit agreements, including our credit facilities and term loans, the indentures under which certain of our senior notes are issued and other note agreements, require us to comply with a number of customary financial covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage ratios, leverage ratios and fixed charge coverage ratios. These covenants may limit our flexibility to run our business, and breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness. If we default under the covenant provisions and are unable to cure the default, refinance the indebtedness or meet payment obligations, our business and financial condition generally and, in particular, the amount of our distributable cash flow could be adversely affected. 20 Adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively affect our financing activity. Our credit ratings at December 31, 2023 were A and A3 from Standard & Poor's and Moody’s, respectively, each with a stable outlook. A securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating organization. The credit ratings of our senior notes and preferred stock are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position and other factors employed by the credit rating agencies in their rating analyses of us. Our credit ratings can affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms and pricing of any debt we may incur. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and in the event our credit ratings are downgraded, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs and may encounter difficulty in obtaining additional financing. Also, a downgrade in our credit ratings may trigger additional payments or other negative consequences under our credit facilities and other debt instruments. Adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively impact our business and, in particular, our refinancing and other capital market activities, our ability to manage debt maturities, our future growth and our development and acquisition activity. We may be unable to refinance our debt or our cash flow may be insufficient to make required debt payments. We are subject to risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any maturing indebtedness, that such refinancing would be on terms as favorable as the terms of the maturing indebtedness, or that we will be able to otherwise obtain funds by selling assets or raising equity to make required payments on maturing indebtedness. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or meet our payment obligations, our business and financial condition will be negatively impacted and, if the maturing debt is secured, the lender may foreclose on the property securing such indebtedness. Our credit facilities and certain other debt bears interest at variable rates. Increases in market interest rates would increase our interest expense under these agreements. Our stockholders may experience dilution if we issue additional common stock or units in the OP. Any additional future issuance of common stock or OP units will reduce the percentage of our common stock and units owned by investors. In most circumstances, stockholders and unitholders will not be entitled to vote on whether or not we issue additional common stock or units. In addition, depending on the terms and pricing of any additional offering of our common stock or OP units and the utilization of the proceeds, our stockholders and unitholders may experience dilution in both book value and fair value of their common stock or units. Risks Related to Income Tax The failure of Prologis, Inc. to qualify as a REIT would have serious adverse consequences. Prologis, Inc. elected to be taxed as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the IRC commencing with the taxable year ended December 31, 1997. We believe Prologis, Inc. has been organized and operated to qualify as a REIT under the IRC and believe that the current organization and method of operation comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the IRC to enable Prologis, Inc. to continue to qualify as a REIT. However, it is possible that we are organized or have operated in a manner that would not allow Prologis, Inc. to qualify as a REIT, or that our future operations could cause Prologis, Inc. to fail to qualify. Qualification as a REIT requires us to satisfy numerous requirements (some annually and others on a quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex sections of the IRC for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. For example, to qualify as a REIT, Prologis, Inc. must derive at least 95% of its gross income in any year from qualifying sources. In addition, Prologis, Inc. must pay dividends to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of its taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding capital gains) and must satisfy specified asset tests on a quarterly basis. Historically, we have satisfied these distribution requirements by making cash distributions to our stockholders, but we may choose to satisfy these requirements by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, our own stock. The provisions of the IRC and applicable Treasury regulations regarding qualification as a REIT are more complicated for Prologis, Inc. because we hold substantially all of our assets through the OP. If Prologis, Inc. fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will be required to pay federal income tax (including, for taxable years prior to 2018, any applicable alternative minimum tax) on taxable income at regular corporate rates. Unless we are entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, Prologis, Inc. would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which it lost the qualification and would be subject to corporate tax on built-in gains that exist at the time of REIT re-election if recognized within the five-year period after re-election, and potentially 10 years for certain states. If Prologis, Inc. lost its REIT status, our net earnings would be significantly reduced for each of the years involved. In addition, we may need to borrow additional funds or liquidate some investments to pay any additional tax liability. Accordingly, funds available for investment, operations and distributions would be reduced. Furthermore, we own a direct or indirect interest in certain subsidiary REITs that elected to be taxed as REITs under Sections 856 through 860 of the IRC. Provided that each subsidiary REIT qualifies as a REIT, our interest in such subsidiary REIT will be treated as a qualifying real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset tests, and any dividend income or gains derived by us from such subsidiary 21 REIT will generally be treated as income that qualifies for purposes of the REIT 95% and 75% gross income tests. To qualify as a REIT, the subsidiary REIT must independently satisfy all of the REIT qualification requirements. If such subsidiary REIT were to fail to qualify as a REIT, and certain relief provisions did not apply, it would be treated as a regular taxable corporation and its income would be subject to U.S. federal income tax. In addition, a failure of the subsidiary REIT to qualify as a REIT would have an adverse effect on the ability of Prologis, Inc. to comply with the REIT income and asset tests, and thus its ability to qualify as a REIT. In addition, we may acquire properties through the acquisition of REIT entities that own the real estate. If a gain in such assets is not otherwise recognized by the seller or target in such acquisitions, and such entities were to fail to satisfy the REIT requirements for any year, they would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which the REIT qualification was lost and the acquired assets would be subject to corporate tax on built-in gains that exist at the time of REIT re-election or, if earlier, at the time of Prologis’ acquisition of the assets. A sale of such assets within the 5-year recognition period, and potentially 10 years for certain states, could result in corporate tax liabilities that could be significant. Certain property transfers may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain attributable to the transaction. From time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of our properties, including by contributing properties to our co-investment ventures. Under the IRC, any gain resulting from transfers of properties we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. We do not believe that our transfers or disposals of property or our contributions of properties into our co-investment ventures are prohibited transactions. However, whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) may contend that certain transfers or dispositions of properties by us or contributions of properties into our co-investment ventures are prohibited transactions. While we believe that the IRS would not prevail in any such dispute, if the IRS were to argue successfully that a transfer, disposition or contribution of property constituted a prohibited transaction, we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to us from the prohibited transaction. In addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a REIT. Legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect us. In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made to the U.S., state, local and foreign income tax laws applicable to investments in real estate, REITs, similar entities and investments. Additional changes are likely to continue to occur in the future, both in and outside of the U.S. and may impact our taxation or that of our stockholders. Any increases in tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for other purposes. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our flexibility or cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. Our use of taxable REIT subsidiaries (“TRSs”) enables us to engage in non-REIT qualifying business activities. Under the IRC, no more than 20% of the value of the assets of a REIT may be represented by securities of one or more TRSs and other non-qualifying assets. This limitation may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments, including the purchase of non-qualifying assets, the expansion of non-real estate activities and investments in the businesses to be conducted by our TRSs, and to that extent limit our opportunities.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this report and the matters described under Item 1A. Risk Factors. A discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for 2023 compared to 2022 is presented below. Information on 2021 is included in graphs only to show year over year trends in our results of operations and operating metrics. Our financial condition for 2021, results of operations for 2021, and 2022 compared to 2021 and details on the acquisition of Duke Realty Corporation and Duke Realty Limited Partnership (collectively "Duke" or the "Duke Transaction") is referenced throughout this document and can be found under Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is incorporated by reference herein to our Annual Report on for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, filed with the SEC on February 14, 2023, and is available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov and our Investor Relations website at www.ir.prologis.com. MANAGEMENT’S OVERVIEW Summary of 2023 Our operating results were strong in 2023. Market rents continued to grow in most of the global logistics markets, which along with our existing lease mark-to-market, drove significant rent change on rollover and same-store growth in our O&M portfolio. Our O&M operating portfolio occupancy was 97.6% at December 31, 2023 and rent change on leases that commenced during the year was 76.4%, on a net effective basis based on our ownership share. While uncertainties remain in the economic and geopolitical environment, our 2023 results are representative of the prospects we see for our business. We believe we are well positioned to organically grow revenues over the long-term given the cumulative growth in market rents over the last several years and our existing high lease mark-to-market. We completed the following significant activities in 2023, as described in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements: • On June 29, 2023, we acquired a real estate portfolio comprised of 70 operating properties in the U.S., aggregating 14 million square feet, for cash consideration of $3.1 billion. • We generated net proceeds of $2.1 billion and realized net gains of $623 million, principally from the contribution of properties to our unconsolidated co-investment ventures in Europe, Japan and Mexico and the sale of a U.S. portfolio of assets to a third-party. This activity also includes the sale of our investment in an unconsolidated office joint venture. • In April 2023, we formed PJLF, an unconsolidated co-investment venture in Japan, with two investors through the initial contribution of assets for which we received cash and equity ownership. We made additional contributions to PJLF during 2023. At December 31, 2023, our ownership interest was 16.3%. • We earned promotes aggregating $675 million ($495 million net of related strategic capital expenses), primarily during the second quarter of 2023 from the third-party investors in USLF in the U.S. • At December 31, 2023, we had total available liquidity of $6.0 billion, including borrowing capacity on our credit facilities of $5.5 billion and unrestricted cash balances of $530 million. • At December 31, 2023, our total debt portfolio of $29.0 billion had a weighted average maturity of 9 years and an effective interest rate of 3.0%. Our financing activities during the year included the following: • On April 5, 2023, we amended and restated our 2021 global senior credit facility (the "2021 Global Facility") as the 2023 Global Facility, increasing its borrowing capacity to $3.0 billion and extended the initial maturity date to June 2027. • On August 25, 2023, we amended and restated the Japanese yen revolver, increasing its borrowing capacity for total commitments of ¥58.5 billion ($414 million at December 31, 2023) and extended the initial maturity date to August 2027. 29 • In the third quarter of 2023, we entered into Chinese renminbi term loans totaling CN¥1.7 billion ($239 million) with an issuance date weighted average interest rate of 3.5% maturing between September 2024 to 2026. • We issued senior notes of $5.4 billion (principal in millions): (1) The exchange rate used to calculate into U.S. dollars was the spot rate at the settlement date. In January 2024, we issued senior notes of $1.3 billion with weighted average effective interest rates of 5.2% and a weighted average maturity of 17 years. In February 2024, we issued senior notes of CN¥ 1.5 billion ($211 million) with an effective interest rate of 3.6% and a maturity of 3 years. RESULTS OF OP ERATIONS We evaluate our business operations based on the NOI of our two operating segments: Real Estate (Rental Operations and Development) and Strategic Capital. NOI by segment is a non-GAAP performance measure that is calculated using revenues and expenses directly from our financial statements. We consider NOI by segment to be an appropriate supplemental measure of our performance because it helps management and investors understand our operating results. Below is our NOI by segment per the Consolidated Financial Statements and a reconciliation of NOI by segment to Operating Income per the Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions): See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our segments and a reconciliation of each business segment’s NOI to Operating Income and Earnings Before Income Taxes. Real Estate Segment This operating segment principally includes rental revenue and rental expenses recognized from our consolidated properties. We allocate the costs of our property management and leasing functions to the Real Estate Segment through Rental Expenses and the Strategic Capital Segment through Strategic Capital Expenses, both in the Consolidated Financial Statements, based on the square footage of the relative portfolios. In addition, this segment is impacted by our development, acquisition and disposition activities. 30 Below are the components of Real Estate Segment NOI, derived directly from line items in the Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions): The change in Real Estate Segment (“RES”) NOI in 2023 compared to 2022 of approximately $1.5 billion was impacted by the following activities (in millions): (1) Acquisition activity is principally due to the Duke Transaction on October 3, 2022 and a $3.1 billion real estate portfolio acquired in the U.S. on June 29, 2023. Acquisition activity also includes the amortization of fair value lease adjustments to rental revenues due to in-place leases that were primarily below market at the time of the acquisition. (2) During both periods, we experienced positive rental rate growth. Rental rate growth is a combination of higher rental rates on rollover of leases (or rent change) and contractual rent increases on existing leases. If a lease has a contractual rent increase driven by a metric that is not known at the time the lease commences, such as the consumer price index or a similar metric, the rent increase is not included in rent leveling and therefore impacts the rental revenue we recognize. Significant rent change during both periods continues to be a key driver in increasing rental income. See below for key metrics on rent change on rollover and occupancy. (3) We calculate changes in NOI from development completions period over period by comparing the change in NOI generated on the pool of developments that completed on or after January 1, 2022 through December 31, 2023. (4) The change is principally due to higher insurance costs from a greater number of weather-related events and increases in the cost of our property management and leasing functions in 2023. Development management and other also includes the operating results of our energy assets. 31 Below are key operating metrics of our consolidated operating portfolio: (1) In October 2022, we completed the Duke Transaction, which increased our average consolidated square feet for 2023. (2) Consolidated square feet of leases commenced and weighted average net effective rent change were calculated for leases with initial terms of one year or greater. Development Activity The following table summarizes consolidated development activity (dollars and square feet in millions): (1) Included in TEI for 2023 was incremental spend of $161 million related to a development start that was previously reported. (2) We calculate the weighted average stabilized yield as estimated NOI assuming stabilized occupancy divided by TEI. (3) Estimated weighted average margin is calculated on development properties as estimated value creation, less estimated closing costs and taxes, if any, on properties expected to be sold or contributed, divided by TEI. Development margins fluctuate depending on several factors including cost of capital, changes in capitalization rates that are used to estimate value at completion, location and type of development, such as build-to-suit development. At December 31, 2023, the consolidated development portfolio, including properties under development and pre-stabilized properties, was expected to be completed before July 2026 with a TEI of $7.8 billion and was 37.9% leased. Our investment in the development portfolio was $4.4 billion at December 31, 2023 leaving $3.4 billion remaining to be spent. For additional information on our development portfolio at December 31, 2023, see Item 2. Properties. 32 Capital Expenditures We capitalize costs incurred in improving and leasing our operating properties as part of the investment basis or within Other Assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The following graph summarizes recurring capitalized expenditures, excluding development costs and non-recurring costs, of our consolidated operating properties during each year: Our capital expenditures continue to increase year over year as we grow the consolidated operating portfolio through development and acquisitions. We plan to continue allocating capital in 2024 to renovate and improve our operating portfolio, including the addition of sustainable and efficient building features. Strategic Capital Segment This operating segment includes revenues from asset management and property management services performed, transactional services for acquisition, disposition and leasing activity and promote revenue earned from the unconsolidated co-investment ventures. Revenues associated with the Strategic Capital Segment fluctuate because of changes in the size of the portfolios through acquisitions and dispositions, the fair value of the properties and other transactional activity including foreign currency exchange rates and timing of promotes. These revenues are reduced by the direct costs associated with the asset and property-level management expenses for the properties owned by these ventures. We allocate the costs of our property management and leasing functions to the Strategic Capital Segment through Strategic Capital Expenses and to the Real Estate Segment through Rental Expenses both in the Consolidated Financial Statements, based on the square footage of the relative portfolios. For further details regarding the key property information and summarized financial condition and operating results of our unconsolidated co-investment ventures, refer to Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Below are the components of Strategic Capital Segment NOI derived directly from the line items in the Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions): Below is additional detail of our Strategic Capital Segment revenues, expenses and NOI (in millions): (1) The U.S. expenses include compensation and personnel costs for employees who are based in the U.S. but also support other geographies. (2) In April 2023, we formed PJLF in Japan with two investors. (3) Recurring fees include asset management and property management fees. 33 (4) Transactional fees include leasing commissions and acquisition, disposition, development and other fees. (5) We generally earn promote revenue directly from third-party investors in the co-investment ventures based on the cumulative returns of the venture over a three-year period or the stabilization of individual development projects owned by the venture. Changes in asset valuations within the co-investment ventures during the promote period is one of the significant inputs to the calculation of promote revenues. The asset valuations are prepared by third-party valuation firms. Included above is promote revenue earned from USLF in the second quarter of 2023 and PELF in the third quarter of 2022. We do not have any significant promote opportunities in 2024. Up to 40% of the third-party portion of the promote earned by us from the co-investment ventures is paid to our employees as a combination of cash and stock-based awards pursuant to the terms of the PPP and expensed through Strategic Capital Expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Income, as vested. G&A Expenses G&A expenses were $390 million and $331 million for 2023 and 2022, respectively. G&A expenses increased in 2023 as compared to 2022, principally due to inflationary increases, the expansion of Prologis Essentials and higher compensation expenses based on our performance. We capitalize certain internal costs that are incremental and directly related to our development and building improvement activities. The following table summarizes capitalized G&A (in millions): Depreciation and Amortization Expenses Depreciation and amortization expenses were $2.5 billion and $1.8 billion in 2023 and 2022, respectively. The change in depreciation and amortization expenses in 2023 compared to 2022 of approximately $672 million was impacted by the following (in millions): (1) Included in acquisitions are the operating properties, other real estate properties and related lease intangibles acquired in the Duke Transaction. (2) Included in foreign currency and other is the depreciation and amortization expense associated with our energy assets. Gains on Real Estate Transactions, Net Gains on the disposition of development properties and land were $462 million and $598 million for 2023 and 2022, respectively, primarily from the contribution of properties we developed to our unconsolidated co-investment ventures in Europe, Japan and Mexico 34 for both years. Gains on other dispositions of investments in real estate were $161 million and $589 million for 2023 and 2022, respectively, and primarily represented sales of U.S. non-strategic operating properties to third parties. Historically, we have utilized the proceeds from these transactions primarily to fund our acquisition and development activities. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on these transactions. Our Owned and Managed (“O&M”) Operating Portfolio We manage our business and review our operating fundamentals on an O&M basis, which includes our consolidated properties and properties owned by our unconsolidated co-investment ventures. We believe reviewing the results in this way allows management to understand performance more broadly as we manage the properties without regard to their ownership. We do not control the unconsolidated co-investment ventures for purposes of GAAP and the presentation of the ventures’ operating information does not represent a legal claim. Our O&M operating portfolio does not include our development portfolio, value-added properties, non-industrial properties or properties that we consider non-strategic and do not have the intent to hold long term that are classified as either held for sale or within other real estate investments. Value-added properties are properties we have either acquired at a discount and believe we could provide greater returns post-stabilization or properties we expect to repurpose to a higher and better use. See below for information on our O&M operating portfolio at December 31 (square feet in millions): Below are the key leasing metrics of our O&M operating portfolio. (1) Square feet of leases commenced and weighted average net effective rent change were calculated for leases with initial terms of one year or greater. We retained approximately 70% or more of our customers, based on the total square feet of leases commenced, for each year. In 2023 and 2022, we experienced a significant increase in net effective rent change due to increasing market rents. (2) Turnover costs include external leasing commissions and tenant improvements and represent the obligations incurred in connection with the lease commencement for leases greater than one year. In 2023 and 2022, spend on turnover costs remained similar to 2021, however, the value of the leases commenced increased due to strong market rent growth. Same Store Analysis Our same store metrics are non-GAAP financial measures, which are commonly used in the real estate industry and expected from the financial community, presented on both a net effective and cash basis. We evaluate the performance of the operating properties we own and manage using a “same store” analysis to ensure that the population of properties in this analysis is consistent from period to period, allowing us and investors to analyze our ongoing business operations. We determine our same store metrics on property NOI, which is calculated as rental revenue less rental expense for the applicable properties in the same store population for both consolidated and unconsolidated properties based on our ownership interest, as further defined below. We define our same store population for the three months ended December 31, 2023 as the properties in our O&M operating portfolio, including the property NOI for both consolidated properties and properties owned by the unconsolidated co-investment ventures at January 1, 2022 and owned throughout the same three-month period in both 2022 and 2023. We believe the drivers of property NOI for the consolidated portfolio are generally the same for the properties owned by the ventures in which we invest and therefore we evaluate 35 the same store metrics of the O&M portfolio based on Prologis’ ownership in the properties (“Prologis Share”). The same store population excludes properties held for sale to third parties, along with development properties that were not stabilized at the beginning of the period (January 1, 2022) and properties acquired or disposed of to third parties during the period. To derive an appropriate measure of period-to-period operating performance, we remove the effects of foreign currency exchange rate movements by using the reported period-end exchange rate to translate from local currency into the U.S. dollar, for both periods. As non-GAAP financial measures, the same store metrics have certain limitations as analytical tools and may vary among real estate companies. As a result, we provide a reconciliation of Rental Revenues less Rental Expenses (“Property NOI”) (from our Consolidated Financial Statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP) to our Same Store Property NOI measures. We evaluate the results of our same store portfolio on a quarterly basis. The following is a reconciliation of our consolidated rental revenues, rental expenses and property NOI for each quarter in 2023 and 2022 to the full year, as included in the Consolidated Statements of Income and within Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and to the respective amounts in our same store portfolio analysis for the three months ended December 31 (dollars in millions): (1) We exclude properties held for sale to third parties, along with development properties that were not stabilized at the beginning of the period and properties acquired or disposed of to third parties during the period. We also exclude net termination and renegotiation fees and write-offs of fair value lease assets or liabilities to allow us to evaluate the growth or decline in each property’s rental revenues without regard to one-time items that are not indicative of the property’s recurring operating performance. Net termination and renegotiation fees represent the gross fee negotiated to allow a customer to terminate or renegotiate their lease, offset by the write-off of the asset recorded due to the adjustment to straight-line rents over the lease term. Same Store Property NOI is adjusted to include an allocation of property management expenses for our consolidated properties based on the property management services provided to each property (generally, based on a percentage of revenues). On consolidation, these amounts are eliminated and the actual costs of providing property management and leasing services are recognized as part of our consolidated rental expense. (2) We include the Property NOI for the same store portfolio for both consolidated properties and properties owned by the co-investment ventures based on our investment in the underlying properties. In order to calculate our share of Same Store Property NOI from the co-investment ventures in which we own less than 100%, we use the co-investment ventures’ underlying Property 36 NOI for the same store portfolio and apply our ownership percentage at December 31, 2023 to the Property NOI for both periods, including the properties contributed during the period. We adjust the total Property NOI from the same store portfolio of the co-investment ventures by subtracting the third parties’ share of both consolidated and unconsolidated co-investment ventures . During the periods presented, certain wholly owned properties were contributed to a co-investment venture and are included in the same store portfolio. Neither our consolidated results nor those of the co-investment ventures, when viewed individually, would be comparable on a same store basis because of the changes in composition of the respective portfolios from period to period (e.g. the results of a contributed property are included in our consolidated results through the contribution date and in the results of the venture subsequent to the contribution date based on our ownership interest at the end of the period). As a result, only line items labeled “Prologis Share of Same Store Property NOI” are comparable period over period. (3) We further remove certain noncash items (straight-line rent and amortization of fair value lease adjustments) included in the financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP to reflect a Same Store Property NOI – Cash measure. We manage our business and compensate our executives based on the same store results of our O&M portfolio at 100% as we manage our portfolio on an ownership blind basis. We calculate those results by including 100% of the properties included in our same store portfolio. Other Components of Income (Expense) Earnings from Unconsolidated Entities, Net We recognized net earnings from unconsolidated entities, which are accounted for using the equity method, of $307 million and $311 million during 2023 and 2022, respectively. The earnings we recognize can be impacted by: (i) the size, rental rates and occupancy of the portfolio of properties owned by each venture; (ii) gains or losses from the dispositions of properties and extinguishment of debt; (iii) our ownership interest in each venture; (iv) other variances in revenues and expenses of each venture; and (v) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates used to translate our share of net earnings to U.S. dollars. See the discussion of our unconsolidated entities above in the Strategic Capital Segment discussion and in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a further breakdown of our share of net earnings recognized. Interest Expense The following table details our net interest expense (dollars in millions): Interest expense increased in 2023, as compared to 2022, principally due to the financing of acquisition and development activity through the issuance of senior notes in 2023, the assumption of $4.2 billion of debt in the Duke Transaction which was marked to fair value in October 2022 and higher interest rates on new issuances and our credit facilities. We issued $5.4 billion of senior notes during 2023 and $3.3 billion during 2022, with a weighted average interest rate of 4.7% and 2.3%, respectively, at the issuance date. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Liquidity and Capital Resources section below, for further discussion of our debt and borrowing costs. Foreign Currency, Derivative and Other Gains and Other Income, Net We recognized foreign currency, derivative and other gains and other income, net, of $87 million and $242 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, and 2022, respectively. These amounts included interest income earned on short-term investments and mark-to-market adjustments associated with other financial investments. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange risk related to investments in and earnings from our foreign investments. We primarily hedge our foreign currency risk related to our investments by borrowing in the currencies in which we invest thereby providing a natural hedge. We have issued debt in a currency that is not the same functional currency of the borrowing entity and have designated a portion of the debt as a nonderivative net investment hedge. We recognize the remeasurement and settlement of the translation adjustment on the unhedged portion of the debt and accrued interest in unrealized gains or losses. We may use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk related to our earnings. We recognize the change in fair value of the undesignated derivative contracts in unrealized gains and losses. Upon settlement of these transactions, we recognize realized gains or losses. 37 The following table details our foreign currency and derivative gains, net included in earnings (in millions): See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our foreign currency and derivative financial instrument policies and Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our derivative and nonderivative transactions. Income Tax Expense We recognize income tax expense related to our taxable REIT subsidiaries and in the local, state and foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. Our current income tax expense (benefit) fluctuates from period to period based primarily on the timing of our taxable income, including gains on the disposition of properties, fees earned from the co-investment ventures and taxable earnings from unconsolidated co-investment ventures. Deferred income tax expense (benefit) is generally a function of the period’s temporary differences and the utilization of net operating losses generated in prior years that had been previously recognized as deferred income tax assets in taxable subsidiaries. The following table summarizes our income tax expense (benefit) (in millions): Our income taxes are discussed in more detail in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Net Earnings Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests This amount represents the third-party investors’ share of the earnings generated in consolidated entities in which we do not own 100% of the equity, reduced by the third-party share of fees or promotes payable to us and earned during the period. We had net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests of $194 million and $191 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. Included in these amounts were $77 million and $92 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively, of net earnings attributable to the common limited partnership unitholders of Prologis, L.P. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our noncontrolling interests. Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) The key driver of changes in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (“AOCI/L”) in the Consolidated Financial Statements in 2023 and 2022 was the currency translation adjustment derived from changes in exchange rates during both periods principally on our net investments in real estate outside the U.S. and the borrowings we issue in the functional currencies of the countries where we invest. These borrowings serve as a natural hedge of our foreign investments. In addition, we use derivative financial instruments, such as foreign currency contracts to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk related to our foreign investments and interest rate contracts to manage interest rate risk, that when designated the change in fair value is included in AOCI/L . 38 See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our foreign currency and derivative financial instrument policies and Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our derivative and nonderivative transactions and other comprehensive income (loss). E NVIRONMENTAL MATTERS See Note 16 in the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about environmental liabilities. LIQUIDITY AND C APITAL RESOURCES Overview We consider our ability to generate cash from operating activities, distributions from our co-investment ventures, contributions and dispositions of properties and available financing sources to be adequate to meet our anticipated future development, acquisition, operating, debt service, dividend and distribution requirements. Near-Term Principal Cash Sources and Uses In addition to dividends and distributions, we expect our primary cash needs will consist of the following: • completion of the development and leasing of the properties in our consolidated development portfolio (at December 31, 2023, 130 properties in our development portfolio were 37.9% leased with a current investment of $4.4 billion and a TEI of $7.8 billion when completed and leased, leaving $3.4 billion of estimated additional required investment); • development of new properties that we may hold for long-term investment or subsequently contribute to unconsolidated co-investment ventures, including the acquisition of land; • the acquisition of other real estate investments that we acquire with the intention of redeveloping into industrial properties; • capital expenditures and leasing costs on properties in our operating portfolio; • investments in energy assets such as solar panels, battery storage and mobility solutions to serve our customers; • repayment of debt and scheduled principal payments of $531 million in 2024; • additional investments in current and future unconsolidated co-investment ventures and other ventures; and • the acquisition of operating properties or portfolios of operating properties (depending on market and other conditions) for direct, long-term investment in our consolidated portfolio (this might include acquisitions from our unconsolidated entities). We expect to fund our cash needs principally from the following sources (subject to market conditions): • net cash flow from property operations; • fees earned for services performed on behalf of co-investment ventures; • distributions received from co-investment ventures; • proceeds from the contribution of properties to current or future co-investment ventures; • proceeds from the disposition of properties or other investments to third parties; • available unrestricted cash balances ($530 million at December 31, 2023); • borrowing capacity under our current credit facility arrangements that allow us to borrow on a short-term basis, with original maturities ranging from overnight to three months ($5.5 billion available at December 31, 2023); and • proceeds from the issuance of debt. In the long term, we may also voluntarily repurchase our outstanding debt or equity securities (depending on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity, contractual restrictions and other factors) through cash purchases, open-market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, tender offers or otherwise. We may also fund our cash needs from the issuance of equity securities, subject to market conditions, and through the sale of a portion of our investments in co-investment ventures. 39 Debt The following table summarizes information about our consolidated debt by currency at December 31 (dollars in millions): (1) The weighted average remaining maturity for total debt outstanding at both December 31, 2023 and 2022 was 9 years. Our credit ratings at December 31, 2023 were A and A3 from Standard & Poor's and Moody’s, respectively, each with a stable outlook. These ratings allow us to borrow at an advantageous interest rate. Adverse changes in our credit ratings could negatively impact our business and, in particular, our refinancing and other capital market activities, our ability to manage debt maturities, our future growth and our development and acquisition activity. A securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating organization. At December 31, 2023, we were in compliance with all of our financial debt covenants. These covenants include a number of customary financial covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage ratios, leverage ratios and fixed charge coverage ratios. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on our debt. Equity Commitments Related to Certain Co-Investment Ventures Certain co-investment ventures have equity commitments from us and our venture partners. Our venture partners fulfill their equity commitment with cash. We may fulfill our equity commitment through contributions of properties or cash. The following table summarizes the remaining equity commitments at December 31, 2023 (in millions): (1) The equity commitments for the co-investment ventures that operate in a different functional currency than the U.S. dollar were calculated using the foreign currency exchange rate at December 31, 2023. (2) Venture partners have the option to cancel their equity commitment starting 18 months after the initial commitment date. See the Cash Flow Summary below for more information about our investment activity in our co-investment ventures. Cash Flow Summary The following table summarizes our cash flow activity (in millions): 40 Operating Activities Cash provided by and used in operating activities, exclusive of changes in receivables and payables, was impacted by the following significant activities: • Real Estate Segment. We receive the majority of our operating cash through the net revenues of our Real Estate Segment, including the recovery of our operating costs. Cash flows generated by the Real Estate Segment are impacted by our acquisition, development and disposition activities, which are drivers of NOI recognized during each period. See the Results of Operations section above for further explanation of our Real Estate Segment. The revenues from this segment include noncash adjustments for straight-lined rents and amortization of above and below market leases of $613 million and $268 million for 2023 and 2022, respectively. The increase in straight-lined rents and amortization of above and below market leases in 2023 was driven primarily from the Duke acquisition. • Strategic Capital Segment. We also generate operating cash through our Strategic Capital Segment by providing asset management and property management and other services to our unconsolidated co-investment ventures. See the Results of Operations section above for the key drivers of the net revenues from our Strategic Capital Segment. Included in Strategic Capital Revenues in the Consolidated Statements of Income are the promotes we earn from the third-party investors in our co-investment ventures, which are recognized in operating activities in the period the cash is received, generally the quarter after the revenue is recognized. • G&A expenses and equity-based compensation awards. We incurred $390 million and $331 million of G&A expenses in 2023 and 2022, respectively. We recognized equity-based, noncash compensation expenses of $268 million and $175 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively, which were recorded to Rental Expenses in the Real Estate Segment, Strategic Capital Expenses in the Strategic Capital Segment and G&A Expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Income. • Operating distributions from unconsolidated entities. We received $680 million and $410 million of distributions as a return on our investment from the cash flows generated from the operations of our unconsolidated entities in 2023 and 2022, respectively. • Cash paid for interest, net of amounts capitalized. We paid interest, net of amounts capitalized, of $457 million and $234 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on this activity. • Cash paid for income taxes, net of refunds. We paid income taxes, net of refunds, of $149 million and $130 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on this activity. Investing Activities Cash provided by investing activities is driven by proceeds from the sale of real estate assets that include the contribution of properties we developed to our unconsolidated co-investment ventures as well as the sale of non-strategic operating properties. Cash used in investing activities is principally driven by our capital deployment activities of investing in real estate development, acquisitions and capital expenditures as discussed above. This activity includes real estate portfolios, land for future development, operating properties and other real estate assets. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on these activities, including the $3.1 billion real estate portfolio we acquired in the U.S. in the second quarter of 2023. In addition, the following significant transactions also impacted our cash used in and provided by investing activities: • Duke Transaction, net of cash acquired . We paid net cash of $92 million to complete the Duke Transaction in 2022 and an additional $33 million of transaction costs in 2023 that were accrued at the time of the acquisition in 2022. The acquisition was financed through the issuance of equity and the assumption of debt in 2022. A portion of this debt was paid down subsequent to acquisition, see the Financing Activities section below. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on this transaction. • Investments in and advances to our unconsolidated entities. We invested cash in our unconsolidated entities that represented our proportionate share, of $284 million and $442 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. The ventures used the funds for the acquisition of properties, development and repayment of debt. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more detail on our unconsolidated co-investment ventures. • Return of investment from unconsolidated entities. We received distributions from unconsolidated entities as a return of investment of $348 million and $77 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. Included in these amounts were distributions from venture activities including proceeds from property sales, debt refinancing and the redemption of our investment in certain unconsolidated entities. Included in 2023 was also the redemption of our interest in an unconsolidated office joint venture. See Note 4 in the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on this transaction. 41 • Net proceeds from (payments on) the settlement of net investment hedges. We received net proceeds of $35 million and $56 million for the settlement of net investment hedges in 2023 and 2022, respectively. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our derivative transactions. Financing Activities Cash provided by and used in financing activities is principally driven by proceeds from and payments on credit facilities and other debt, along with dividends paid on common and preferred stock and noncontrolling interest contributions and distributions. Our credit facilities support our cash needs for development and acquisition activities on a short-term basis. The original maturity of our borrowings under the credit facilities ranges from overnight to three months. Our repurchase of and payments on debt and proceeds from the issuance of debt consisted of the following activity (in millions): (1) We completed the Duke Transaction in 2022 and assumed $4.2 billion of debt. We paid down the balance of $745 million on Duke’s line of credit subsequent to closing the acquisition which is reflected in Net Proceeds From (Payments On) Credit Facilities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow. The assumption of debt was excluded from this table . Unconsolidated Co-Investment Venture Debt We had investments in and advances to our unconsolidated co-investment ventures of $8.4 billion at December 31, 2023. The ventures listed below had total third-party debt of $14.9 billion at December 31, 2023 with a weighted average remaining maturity of 7 years and weighted average interest rate of 3.1%. Certain of our ventures do not have third-party debt and are therefore excluded. This debt is non-recourse to Prologis and other investors in the co-investment ventures and bears interest as follows at December 31, 2023 (dollars in millions): (1) The weighted average loan-to-value ratio for all unconsolidated co-investment ventures was 27.3% at December 31, 2023. Loan-to-value, a non-GAAP measure, was calculated as the percentage of total third-party debt to the gross book value of real estate for each venture and weighted based on the cumulative gross book value of all unconsolidated co-investment ventures. At December 31, 2023, we did not guarantee any third-party debt of the unconsolidated co-investment ventures. In our role as the manager or sponsor, we work with the co-investment ventures to maintain sufficient liquidity and refinance their maturing debt. There can be no assurance that the co-investment ventures will be able to refinance any maturing indebtedness on terms as favorable as the maturing debt, or at all. If the ventures are unable to refinance the maturing indebtedness with newly issued debt, they may be able to obtain funds by voluntary capital contributions from us and our partners or by selling assets. Certain of our ventures also have credit facilities, or unencumbered properties, both of which may be used to obtain funds. 42 Dividend and Distribution Requirements Our dividend policy on our common stock is to distribute a percentage of our cash flow to ensure that we will meet the dividend requirements of the IRC, relative to maintaining our REIT status, while still allowing us to retain cash to fund our capital deployment and other investment activities. Under the IRC, REITs may be subject to certain federal income and excise taxes on undistributed taxable income. We paid quarterly cash dividends of $0.87 and $0.79 per common share in 2023 and 2022, respectively. Our future common stock dividends, if and as declared, may vary and will be determined by the Board based upon the circumstances prevailing at the time, including our financial condition, operating results and REIT distribution requirements, and may be adjusted at the discretion of the Board during the year. We make distributions on the common limited partnership units outstanding at the same per unit amount as our common stock dividend. The Class A common limited partnership units (“Class A Units”) in the OP are entitled to a quarterly distribution equal to $0.64665 per unit so long as the common units receive a quarterly distribution of at least $0.40 per unit. We paid a quarterly cash distribution of $0.64665 per Class A Unit in 2023 and 2022. At December 31, 2023, our Series Q preferred stock had an annual dividend rate of 8.54% per share and the dividends are payable quarterly in arrears. Pursuant to the terms of our preferred stock, we are restricted from declaring or paying any dividend with respect to our common stock unless and until all cumulative dividends with respect to the preferred stock have been paid and sufficient funds have been set aside for dividends that have been declared for the relevant dividend period with respect to the preferred stock. Other Commitments On an ongoing basis, we are engaged in various stages of negotiations for the acquisition or disposition of individual properties or portfolios of properties. CRITICAL ACCOUN TING POLICIES A critical accounting policy is one that involves an estimate or assumption that is subjective and requires management judgment about the effect of a matter that is inherently uncertain and material to an entity’s financial condition and results of operations. Management’s judgment considers historical and current economic conditions and expectations for the future. Changes in estimates could affect our financial position and specific items in our results of operations that are used by stockholders, potential investors, industry analysts and lenders in their evaluation of our performance. Of the significant accounting policies discussed in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, those presented below have been identified by us as meeting the criteria to be considered critical accounting policies as they relate to our financial condition at December 31, 2023, and 2022 and our operating results for the three-year period ended December 31, 2023. Refer to Note 2 for more information on these critical accounting policies. Asset Acquisitions We generally account for an acquisition of a single property or portfolio of properties as an asset acquisition. We measure the real estate assets acquired through an asset acquisition based on their cost or total consideration exchanged. The difference between the cost and the estimated fair value (excess or bargain consideration) is allocated to the real estate properties and related lease intangibles on a relative fair value basis. Assets we do not intend to hold long-term are recorded at fair value. At a property-level, we allocate the fair value to the components, which include building, land, improvements, and intangible assets or liabilities related to acquired leases. The most significant portion of the allocation is to building and land and requires the use of market based estimates and assumptions. The fair value of real estate properties subject to purchase price allocation is based on the expected future cash flows of the property and various characteristics of the markets where the property is located utilizing an income approach methodology, which may be a discounted cash flow analysis or applying a capitalization rate to the estimated net operating income of a property. Key assumptions may include market rents and capitalization rates. Estimates of future cash flows are based on a number of factors including historical operating results, known trends and market and economic conditions. We determine capitalization rates by market based on recent transactions and other market data and adjust if necessary, based on the property characteristics. The fair value of land is generally based on relevant market data, such as a comparison of the subject site to similar parcels that have recently been sold or are currently being offered on the market for sale. The use of different assumptions to value the acquired properties and allocate the most significant portion of the property value between the building and land could affect the depreciation expense we recognize over the estimated remaining useful life. 43 Recoverability of Real Estate Assets We assess the carrying values of our respective long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of these assets may not be fully recoverable. This assessment is primarily triggered based on the shortening of the expected hold period due to a change in our intent to sell a property in the near term. We have processes to monitor our intent with regard to our investments and the estimated disposition value in comparison to the current carrying value. If our assessment of potential triggering events indicates that the carrying value of a property that we expect to sell in the near term is not recoverable, we recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the current estimated fair value of the property. We determine the fair value of the property based on the estimated proceeds from disposition that are based on quoted market values, third-party appraisals or discounted cash flow models that utilize the future net operating income of the property and expected market capitalization rates. The use of projected future cash flows is based on assumptions that are consistent with our estimates of future expectations and the strategic plan we use to manage our underlying business. Changes in economic and operating conditions could impact our intent and the assumptions used in determining the fair value that could result in future impairment. NEW ACCOUN TING PRONOUNCEMENTS See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. FUNDS FROM OP ERATIONS ATTRIBUTABLE TO COMMON STOCKHOLDERS/UNITHOLDERS (“FFO”) FFO is a non-GAAP financial measure that is commonly used in the real estate industry. The most directly comparable GAAP measure to FFO is net earnings. The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”) defines FFO as earnings computed under GAAP to exclude historical cost depreciation and gains and losses from the sales net of any related tax, along with impairment charges, of previously depreciated properties. We also exclude the gains on revaluation of equity investments upon acquisition of a controlling interest and the gain recognized from a partial sale of our investment, as these are similar to gains from the sales of previously depreciated properties. We exclude similar adjustments from our unconsolidated entities and the third parties’ share of our consolidated co-investment ventures. Our FFO Measures Our FFO measures begin with NAREIT’s definition and we make certain adjustments to reflect our business and the way that management plans and executes our business strategy. While not infrequent or unusual, the additional items we adjust for in calculating FFO, as modified by Prologis and Core FFO , both as defined below, are subject to significant fluctuations from period to period. Although these items may have a material impact on our operations and are reflected in our financial statements, the removal of the effects of these items allows us to better understand the core operating performance of our properties over the long term. These items have both positive and negative short-term effects on our results of operations in inconsistent and unpredictable directions that are not relevant to our long-term outlook. We calculate our FFO measures, as defined below, based on our proportionate ownership share of both our unconsolidated and consolidated ventures. We reflect our share of our FFO measures for unconsolidated ventures by applying our average ownership percentage for the period to the applicable reconciling items on an entity-by-entity basis. We reflect our share for consolidated ventures in which we do not own 100% of the equity by adjusting our FFO measures to remove the noncontrolling interests share of the applicable reconciling items based on our average ownership percentage for the applicable periods. These FFO measures are used by management as supplemental financial measures of operating performance and we believe that it is important that stockholders, potential investors and financial analysts understand the measures management uses. We do not use our FFO measures as, nor should they be considered to be, alternatives to net earnings computed under GAAP, as indicators of our operating performance, as alternatives to cash from operating activities computed under GAAP or as indicators of our ability to fund our cash needs. We analyze our operating performance principally by the rental revenue of our real estate and the revenues from our strategic capital business, net of operating, administrative and financing expenses. This income stream is not directly impacted by fluctuations in the market value of our investments in real estate or debt securities. FFO, as modified by Prologis attributable to common stockholders/unitholders (“FFO, as modified by Prologis”) To arrive at FFO, as modified by Prologis , we adjust the NAREIT defined FFO measure to exclude the impact of foreign currency related items and deferred tax, specifically: • deferred income tax benefits and deferred income tax expenses recognized by our subsidiaries; 44 • current income tax expense related to acquired tax liabilities that were recorded as deferred tax liabilities in an acquisition, to the extent the expense is offset with a deferred income tax benefit in earnings that is excluded from our defined FFO measure; and • foreign currency exchange gains and losses resulting from (i) debt transactions between us and our foreign entities; (ii) third-party debt that is used to hedge our investment in foreign entities; (iii) derivative financial instruments related to any such debt transactions, and (iv) mark-to-market adjustments associated with derivative and other financial instruments. We use FFO, as modified by Prologis , so that management, analysts and investors are able to evaluate our performance against other REITs that do not have similar operations or operations in jurisdictions outside the U.S. Core FFO attributable to common stockholders/unitholders (“Core FFO”) In addition to FFO, as modified by Prologis , we also use Core FFO. To arrive at Core FFO, we adjust FFO, as modified by Prologis , to exclude the following recurring and nonrecurring items that we recognize directly in FFO, as modified by Prologis : • gains or losses from the disposition of land and development properties that were developed with the intent to contribute or sell; • income tax expense related to the sale of investments in real estate; • impairment charges recognized related to our investments in real estate generally as a result of our change in intent to contribute or sell these properties; and • gains or losses from the early extinguishment of debt and redemption and repurchase of preferred stock. We use Core FFO , including by segment and region, to: (i) assess our operating performance as compared to other real estate companies; (ii) evaluate our performance and the performance of our properties in comparison with expected results and results of previous periods; (iii) evaluate the performance of our management; (iv) budget and forecast future results to assist in the allocation of resources; (v) provide guidance to the financial markets to understand our expected operating performance; and (vi) evaluate how a specific potential investment will impact our future results. Limitations on the use of our FFO measures While we believe our modified FFO measures are important supplemental measures, neither NAREIT’s nor our measures of FFO should be used alone because they exclude significant economic components of net earnings computed under GAAP and are, therefore, limited as an analytical tool. Accordingly, these are only a few of the many measures we use when analyzing our business. Some of the limitations are: • The current income tax expenses that are excluded from our modified FFO measures represent the taxes that are payable. • Depreciation and amortization of real estate assets are economic costs that are excluded from FFO. FFO is limited, as it does not reflect the cash requirements that may be necessary for future replacements of the real estate assets. Furthermore, the amortization of capital expenditures and leasing costs necessary to maintain the operating performance of logistics facilities are not reflected in FFO. • Gains or losses from property dispositions and impairment charges related to expected dispositions represent changes in value of the properties. By excluding these gains and losses, FFO does not capture realized changes in the value of disposed properties arising from changes in market conditions. • The deferred income tax benefits and expenses that are excluded from our modified FFO measures result from the creation of a deferred income tax asset or liability that may have to be settled at some future point. Our modified FFO measures do not currently reflect any income or expense that may result from such settlement. • The foreign currency exchange gains and losses that are excluded from our modified FFO measures are generally recognized based on movements in foreign currency exchange rates through a specific point in time. The ultimate settlement of our foreign currency-denominated net assets is indefinite as to timing and amount. Our FFO measures are limited in that they do not reflect the current period changes in these net assets that result from periodic foreign currency exchange rate movements. • The gains and losses on extinguishment of debt or preferred stock that we exclude from our Core FFO, may provide a benefit or cost to us as we may be settling our obligation at less or more than our future obligation. We compensate for these limitations by using our FFO measures only in conjunction with net earnings computed under GAAP when making our decisions. This information should be read with our complete Consolidated Financial Statements prepared under GAAP. To 45 assist investors in compensating for these limitations, we reconcile our modified FFO measures to our net earnings computed under GAAP as follows (in millions):