********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, our operating results, our financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements We may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other filings with the SEC, in reports to stockholders and in press releases and investor webcasts. You can identify these forward-looking statements by use of words such as "strategy," "expects," "continues," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "will," "aspires," "estimates," "intends," "projects," "aims," "goals," "targets," "forecasts" and other words of similar meaning. You can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Our RRPs constitute a relatively new product category that is less predictable than our mature cigarette business.  Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected. Investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements and whether to 7 invest in or remain invested in our securities. In connection with the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we are identifying important factors that, individually or in the aggregate, could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by us; any such statement is qualified by reference to the following cautionary statements. We elaborate on these and other risks we face throughout this document, particularly in Item 7, Business Environment . You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that we may make from time to time, except in the normal course of our public disclosure obligations. Overall Business Risks We may be unsuccessful in our attempts to introduce, commercialize, and grow reduced-risk products in existing and new markets, and regulators may prohibit or significantly restrict the commercialization of these products or the communication of scientifically substantiated information and claims. Our key strategic priorities are to: (i) continue developing and commercializing products that present less risk of harm to adult smokers who switch to reduced-risk products versus continued cigarette smoking; and (ii) encourage and educate current adult smokers who would otherwise continue to smoke cigarettes to switch to those products. For our efforts to be successful, we must: We might not succeed in our effort to introduce, commercialize, and grow our RRPs in existing and new markets. If we do not succeed, but others do, or if heat-not-burn products are inequitably regulated compared to other RRP categories without regard to the totality of the scientific evidence available for such products, we may be at a competitive disadvantage. In addition, actions of some market participants, such as the inappropriate marketing of e-vapor products to youth, as well as alleged health consequences associated with the use of certain e-vapor products, may unfavorably impact public opinion and/or mischaracterize the health consequences of all e-vapor products or other RRPs to consumers, regulators and policy makers without regard to the totality of scientific evidence available for specific products. This may impede our efforts to advocate for the development of science-based regulatory frameworks for the development and commercialization of RRPs. We cannot predict the extent to which regulators will permit the sale and/or marketing of RRPs. Regulatory restrictions could limit the success of our RRPs. The World Health Organization (the "WHO") study group on tobacco product regulation published their eighth report on the scientific basis of tobacco product regulation in May 2021. The report is based on a review of scientific evidence related to novel and emerging nicotine and tobacco products, such as electronic nicotine delivery systems ("ENDS"), electronic non-nicotine delivery systems and HTPs. The report concludes by making a number of policy recommendations on HTPs and ENDS that, if implemented, could restrict both the availability of these products and the access to accurate information about them. In August 2021, the FCTC Secretariat published two reports on novel and emerging tobacco products to the Ninth Session of the CoP of the FCTC, which are not materially different from the WHO study group report. Substantive decisions based on these reports were deferred to the Tenth Session of the CoP ("CoP 10"), which was scheduled for November 2023, but has been postponed to February 2024. In August 2023, the WHO Study Group on Tobacco Products Regulation ("TobReg") issued its ninth report, including recommendations on nicotine pouches, which were in line with previous policy recommendations on regulating flavors in tobacco and nicotine products. It is not possible to predict whether or to what extent these developments will be reflected in decisions adopted at CoP 10, following deliberations. In December 2023, the WHO issued a white paper on electronic cigarettes. While acknowledging that long-term health effects of using e-cigarettes are not fully understood, the WHO calls on countries to ban or strictly regulate these products in order to prevent youth uptake and counter nicotine addiction. The WHO’s reports are not binding on the WHO Member States or on parties to the FCTC, and so it is not possible to predict the extent to which any proposals it adopts will be implemented. However, the WHO proposals could lead to restrictions on the availability of certain of our RRPs and access to accurate information about them in one or more of our markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 8 Additionally, any claims, regardless of merit, challenging our research and clinical data available to date, may impact the development of science-based regulatory frameworks for the commercialization of the RRP category and the commercialization of the RRP category in general. Our RRPs and commercial activities for these products are designed for, and directed toward, current adult smokers and users of nicotine-containing products. We put significant effort to restrict access of our products from non-smokers and youth. Despite our efforts, technological, operational, regulatory and/or commercial developments might impact the implementation or effectiveness of youth access prevention mechanisms and surrounding infrastructure. If there is significant usage, whether actual or perceived, of our products or competitive products among youth or non-smokers, even in situations over which we have no control, our reputation and credibility may suffer, the regulatory approach to our products may become more restrictive, and our efforts to advocate for the development of science-based regulatory frameworks for the development and commercialization of RRPs may be significantly impacted. Moreover, the FDA’s premarket tobacco product and modified risk tobacco product authorizations of two versions of our Platform 1 product are subject to strict marketing, reporting and other requirements. Although we have received these authorizations from the FDA, there is no guarantee that the product will remain authorized for sale in the U.S., or that new versions of the product (Platform 1 or other smoke-free platforms) will receive necessary authorizations, particularly if there is a significant uptake in youth or non-smoker initiation. The commercialization of our products in the United States is dependent on successfully managing compliance with federal, state, and local laws, regulations, legal agreements, and related interpretations. Failure to successfully manage compliance and to resolve any disputes that may arise regarding the application of legal and administrative requirements to our products could negatively impact the timing, manner, or success of our commercialization plans in the United States. Premarket tobacco applications for certain ZYN products, which are currently marketed in the U.S., were submitted in March 2020. The FDA has not completed its review of such applications but concluded that such ZYN products can continue to be marketed in the U.S., subject to the FDA’s enforcement discretion, because the applications were submitted prior to a September 9, 2020 deadline. We also submitted additional premarket tobacco applications for other ZYN products after the deadline, and we are unable to market these products until the FDA authorizes such applications. There is no guarantee that the ZYN products will receive the necessary authorizations from the FDA or that the FDA will allow us to continue to sell the ZYN products currently in the market, pending its review of the applications. The financial and business performance of our reduced-risk products is less predictable than our cigarette business. Our RRPs are novel products in a relatively new category, and the pace at which adult smokers adopt them may vary, depending on the competitive, regulatory, fiscal and cultural environment, and other factors in a specific market. There may be periods of accelerated growth and periods of slower growth for these products, the timing and drivers of which may be more difficult for us to predict versus our mature cigarette business. The impact of this lower predictability on our projected results for a specific period may be significant, due to geopolitical or macroeconomic events that negatively impact RRP availability or adoption, which in turn may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be unsuccessful in our efforts to differentiate reduced-risk products and cigarettes with respect to taxation. To date, we have been largely successful in demonstrating to regulators that our RRPs are not cigarettes due to the absence of combustion, and accordingly they are generally taxed either as a separate category or as other tobacco products, which typically yields more favorable tax rates than cigarettes. Nevertheless, we are unable to predict whether regulators will be issuing new regulations under which RRPs will be equally taxed in line with other tobacco products such as conventional cigarettes. If we cease to be successful in these efforts, RRP unit margins may be materially adversely affected, which in turn may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, revenues, cash flows, and profitability. Consumption of tax-paid cigarettes continues to decline in many of our markets. This decline is due to multiple factors, including increased taxes and pricing, governmental actions, the diminishing social acceptance of smoking, health concerns, competition, continuing economic and geopolitical uncertainty, and the continuing prevalence of illicit products. These factors and their potential consequences are discussed more fully below and in Item 7, Business Environment . A continuous decline in the consumption of cigarettes could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, cash flow and profitability, which in turn may have a material adverse effect on our ability to fund our smoke-free transformation. Cigarettes are subject to substantial taxes. Significant increases in cigarette-related taxes have been proposed or enacted and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted in numerous jurisdictions. These tax increases may disproportionately affect our profitability and make us less competitive versus certain of our competitors. Tax regimes, including excise taxes, sales taxes and import duties, can disproportionately affect the retail price of cigarettes versus other combustible tobacco products, or disproportionately affect the relative retail price of our cigarette brands versus cigarette brands manufactured by certain of our competitors. Because our portfolio is weighted toward the premium-price cigarette category, tax 9 regimes based on sales price can place us at a competitive disadvantage in certain markets. Furthermore, our volume and profitability may be adversely affected in these markets. In addition, increases in cigarette taxes are expected to continue to have an adverse impact on our sales of cigarettes, due to resulting lower consumption levels, a shift in sales from manufactured cigarettes to other combustible tobacco products and from the premium-price to the mid-price or low-price cigarette categories, where we may be under-represented, from local sales to cross-border purchases of lower price products, or to illicit products such as contraband, counterfeit and "illicit whites." Each of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, results of operations, revenues, cash flow and profitability. Our business faces significant governmental action aimed at increasing regulatory requirements with the goal of reducing or preventing the use of tobacco or nicotine-containing products. Governmental actions, combined with the diminishing social acceptance of smoking and private actions to restrict smoking, have resulted in reduced industry volumes for our products in many of our markets, and we expect that such factors will continue to reduce consumption levels and will increase down-trading and the risk of counterfeiting, contraband, "illicit whites" and cross-border purchases. Significant regulatory developments will continue to take place over the next few years in most of our markets, driven principally by the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (the "FCTC"). Since it came into force in 2005, the FCTC has led to increased efforts by tobacco control advocates and public health organizations to promote increasingly restrictive regulatory measures on the marketing and sale of tobacco and nicotine-containing products to adult nicotine users. Regulatory initiatives that have been proposed, introduced or enacted by governmental authorities in various jurisdictions include: Our financial results could be materially affected by regulatory initiatives resulting in a significant decrease in demand for our brands. More specifically, requirements that lead to a commoditization of tobacco products or impede adult consumers' ability to convert to our RRPs, as well as any significant increase in the cost of complying with new regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 10 Changes in the earnings mix and changes in tax laws may result in significant variability in our effective tax rates. Our ability to receive payments from foreign subsidiaries or to repatriate royalties and dividends could be restricted by local country currency exchange controls and other regulations. We are subject to income tax laws in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Changes in the U.S. tax system, including significant increases in the U.S. corporate income tax rate and the minimum tax rate on certain earnings of foreign subsidiaries could be enacted. Such changes could have a material adverse impact on our effective tax rate thereby reducing our net earnings.  Further changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise as a result of the base erosion and profit shifting project undertaken by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, which recommended changes to numerous long-standing tax principles. If implemented, such changes, as well as changes in taxing jurisdictions’ administrative interpretations, decisions, policies, or positions, could also have a material adverse impact on our effective tax rate thereby reducing our net earnings. In future periods, our ability to recover deferred tax assets could be subject to additional uncertainty as a result of such developments. Furthermore, changes in the earnings mix or applicable foreign tax laws may result in significant variability in our effective tax rates. As a result of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, certain taxing jurisdictions, including the U.S., have proposed punitive tax legislation applicable to companies doing business in Russia, which could also have a material adverse impact on our effective tax rate if enacted thereby reducing our net earnings. Because we are a U.S. holding company, our most significant source of funds is distributions from our non-U.S. subsidiaries. Certain countries in which we operate have adopted or could institute currency exchange controls and other regulations or policies that limit or prohibit our local subsidiaries' ability to convert local currency into U.S. dollars or to make payments outside the country. This could subject us to the risks of local currency devaluation and business disruption. Disruptions in the credit markets or changes to our credit ratings may adversely affect our business. We currently generate significant cash flows from ongoing operations and have access to global credit markets through our various short- and long- term financing activities. Our financial performance, credit ratings, interest rates, the stability of financial institutions with which we partner, geopolitical or national developments, the stability and liquidity of the credit markets and the state of the global economy could affect the availability and cost of financing. Disruption in the credit markets, limitations on our ability to borrow, slower than anticipated debt deleveraging, or a downgrade of our current credit rating could increase our future borrowing costs which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, tighter or more volatile credit markets may lead to business disruptions for certain of our suppliers, contract manufacturers or trade customers which could, in turn, adversely impact our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. We could decide, or be required to, recall products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. We could decide, or laws or regulations could require us, to recall products due to the failure, or alleged failure, to meet quality standards or specifications, suspected or confirmed and deliberate or unintentional product contamination, manufacturing defects, or other product adulteration, misbranding or tampering. A product recall or a product liability or other claim (even if unsuccessful or without merit) could generate negative publicity about us and our products, and our Company’s reputation or that of our brands may be adversely affected. In addition, if another company recalls or experiences negative publicity related to a product in a category in which we compete, adult nicotine consumers might reduce their overall consumption of products in that product category. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. We may be required to write down assets due to impairment, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. We continuously monitor the values of our long-lived assets, reporting units, intangible assets, as well as investments in equity securities, including our continuing investment in Rothmans, Benson & Hedges ("RBH"), to determine whether events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment exists. Additionally, we test goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets for impairment annually. The values of these assets may be affected by several factors, including general macroeconomic and geopolitical conditions; regulatory and legal developments; changes in product volume growth rates; changes in pricing strategies and costs bases; discount rates; success of planned new product expansions; competitive activity; and income and excise taxes. If an impairment is determined to exist, we will incur impairment losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. See Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —Critical Accounting Estimates for additional information concerning impairment determination and calculation. 11 Risks Related to the Impact of the War in Ukraine on our Business Our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position may be adversely impacted by the continuation and consequences of the war in Ukraine. In 2023, Russia accounted for around 9% of our total cigarette and heated tobacco unit shipment volume, and around 6% of our total net revenues. Ukraine accounted for around 2% of our total cigarette and heated tobacco unit shipment volume, and around 1% of our total net revenues. Historically, we also produced finished goods in Ukraine for export and manufactured products in Russia. In 2022, as a result of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, we suspended planned investments and scaled down our manufacturing operations in Russia. The full implications of the Russian invasion of Ukraine for our operations in those countries are impossible to predict at this time. The likelihood of retaliatory action by the Russian government against companies, including PMI, as a result of actions and statements made in response to the Russian invasion or otherwise, including the possibility of legal action against us or our employees; the deprivation of rights in, or access to, our Russian assets; or nationalization of foreign businesses or assets (including cash reserves held in Russia and intangible assets such as trademarks), is impossible to predict. We are continuously assessing the evolving situation in Russia, including regulatory constraints in the market entailing very complex terms and conditions that must be met for any divestment transaction to be granted approval by the authorities, and restrictions resulting from international regulations. In the event of a divestment, our ability to fully realize the value of the business would likely be subject to material impairment. In Ukraine, there is no way to know when and to what extent we will be able to fully normalize our operations or to what extent our workforce, facilities, inventory, and other assets will remain intact. These developments have and will continue to have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position, and may result in further impairment charges. The conflict also continues to elevate the likelihood of supply chain disruptions, both in the region and globally, and may inhibit our ability to timely source materials and services needed to make and sell our products. For example, historically we sourced certain finished goods, production materials and components from both Russia and Ukraine, including printed materials and filters, and the invasion has, and may continue to, disrupt the availability of and impact our supply chain for these materials. These disruptions, to the extent we are unable to find alternative sources or otherwise address these supply constraints, may impact the availability and cost of our products in other markets, which would adversely impact our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position, and may result in impairment charges. Furthermore, the imposition of various restrictions on transactions with parties from certain jurisdictions, the ban on exports of various products, and other economic and financial restrictions may adversely affect certain third parties with which we do business in Russia, such as customers, suppliers, intermediaries, service providers and banks. The broader consequences of the invasion are also impossible to predict, but could include reputational consequences, further sanctions, financial or currency restrictions, punitive tax law changes, embargoes, regional instability, and geopolitical shifts as well as adverse effects on macroeconomic conditions, security conditions, currency exchange rates, and financial markets. Given the nature of our business and global operations, such geo-political instability and uncertainty could increase the costs of our materials and operations; reduce demand for our products; have a negative impact on our supply chains, manufacturing capabilities, or distribution capabilities; increase our exposure to currency fluctuations; constrain our liquidity or our ability to access capital markets; create staffing or operations difficulties; or subject us to increased cyber-attacks. While we will continue to monitor this fluid situation and develop contingency plans as necessary to address any disruptions to our business operations as they develop, the extent of the conflict’s effect on our business and results of operations as well as the global economy, cannot be predicted. The conflict may also heighten many other risks disclosed in this Form 10-K, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Such risks could affect, without limitation, the achievement of our strategic priorities, including achievement of our RRP growth targets; the availability of third-party manufacturing resources; the availability of attractive acquisition and strategic business opportunities and our ability to fully realize the benefits of these transactions; our ability to attract, motivate, and retain the best global talent; and our loss of revenue from counterfeiting and similar illicit activities. Risks Related to Sourcing and Distribution of Products, Services and Materials Use of third-parties may negatively impact the distribution, quality, and availability of our products and services, and we may be required to replace third-party contract distributors, manufacturers or service providers. We increasingly rely on third-parties and their subcontractors/suppliers, sometimes concentrated in a specific geographic area, for product distribution and to manufacture some of our products and product parts (particularly, the electronic devices and accessories), as well as to provide services, including to support our finance, commercialization and information technology processes. While many of these arrangements improve efficiencies and decrease our operating costs, they also diminish our direct control.  Such diminished control may lead to disruption in the distribution of our products and may have a material adverse effect on the quality and availability of products or services, our supply chain, and the speed and flexibility in our response to changing market conditions and adult consumer preferences, all of which may place us at a competitive disadvantage.   In addition, we may be unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms for numerous reasons, including government regulations, and the distribution of our products may be 12 disrupted in certain markets or our costs may increase significantly if we must replace such third parties with other partners or our own resources. The effects of climate change, other environmental issues, and related legal or regulatory responses may have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. While we seek to mitigate our business risks associated with environmental issues, such as climate change, by establishing environmental goals and standards and seeking business partners, including within our supply chain, that are committed to operating in ways that protect the environment or mitigate environmental impacts, we recognize that there are inherent environmental-related risks, including climate change-related risks, wherever business is conducted. Among other potential impacts, climate change could influence the quality and volume of the agricultural products we rely on, including tobacco, due to several factors beyond our control, including more frequent variations in weather patterns, extreme weather events causing unexpected downtime and inventory losses, other adverse weather conditions, and governmental restrictions on trade, all of which may lead to disruption of operations at factories, warehouses and other premises. Furthermore, nature-related risks, including those related to natural ecosystems degradation, decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions of the world, biodiversity loss, water resource depletion and deforestation, which are partially driven or exacerbated by climate change, may negatively impact the resilience of, or otherwise disrupt, our business operations or those of our suppliers and business partners. There is an increased focus by foreign, federal, state and local regulatory and legislative bodies on environmental policies, including those relating to climate change.  New  environmental-related legal or regulatory requirements may lead to additional carbon taxation, raw or other materials taxation, energy price increases, new compliance costs, increased distribution and supply chain costs, and other expenses impacting our cost of operations. Moreover, given that the regulatory framework in this regard is highly dynamic, additional uncertainties may be driven by further upcoming regulatory changes on which we might have limited visibility or limited time to implement, which could have an impact on several elements of our business, including elevating the cost or complexity of our operations. Even if we make changes to align ourselves with legal or regulatory requirements, we may still be subject to significant penalties if such laws or regulations are interpreted and applied in a manner inconsistent with our practices. Government mandated prices, production control programs, and shifts in crops driven by economic conditions may increase the cost or reduce the quality of the tobacco and other agricultural products used to manufacture our products. As with other agricultural commodities, the price of tobacco leaf and cloves can be influenced by imbalances in supply and demand and the impacts of natural disasters and pandemics such as COVID-19. Tobacco production in certain countries is subject to a variety of controls, including government mandated prices and production control programs. Changes in the patterns of demand for agricultural products could cause farmers to produce less tobacco or cloves. Any significant change in tobacco leaf and clove prices, quality and quantity could affect our profitability and our business. A prolonged disruption of our production facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A prolonged disruption at or shut-down of one or more of our production facilities, especially our ZYN production facility in Kentucky, which currently supplies substantially all of our capacity for ZYN sales in the U.S., due to natural- or man-made disasters or other events outside of our control, such as equipment malfunction or widespread outbreaks of acute illness, including COVID-19, or for any other reason, could limit our capacity to meet customer demands. Such an event could disrupt our operations; delay production, shipments and revenue; and result in significant expense to repair or replace our affected facilities. As a result, we could forgo revenue opportunities and potentially lose market share, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Risks Related to our International Operations Because we have operations in numerous countries, our results may be adversely impacted by economic, regulatory and political developments, natural disasters, pandemics or conflicts. Some of the countries in which we operate face the threat of civil unrest and can be subject to regime changes. In others, nationalization, terrorism, conflict and the threats of war or acts of war may have a significant impact on the business environment. Factors beyond our control, such as, without limitation, natural disasters, extreme weather events, pandemics (including COVID-19), economic, political, regulatory, acts of war or threats of war, or other developments could disrupt or increase the expenses related to our supply chain, manufacturing capabilities, distribution capabilities, or the energy and other utility services required to operate our factories, warehouses, and other premises. Our business continuity plans and other safeguards might not always be effective to fully mitigate their impact. For example, the global pandemic outbreak of the COVID-19 virus in 2020 created significant societal and economic disruption and the closure of stores, factories and offices, restrictions on manufacturing, distribution and travel, and supply chain disruptions, among other impacts. Such developments – including the impact of geopolitical disruptions resulting from the conflict in the Middle East and the impact on energy prices and availability in the EU and elsewhere resulting from the invasion of Ukraine by Russia – could cause significant volume declines in our duty-free business and certain other key markets; disrupt or delay our distribution, manufacturing or supply chain; increase currency volatility; increase costs of our materials and operations and lead to loss of property or equipment that are critical to our business in certain markets and difficulty in staffing and managing our operations, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, volumes, revenue, cash flows, financial position, net earnings and profitability. We discuss additional risks associated with Russia's invasion of Ukraine and climate change, above. In certain markets, we are dependent on governmental approvals of various actions such as price changes, and failure to obtain such approvals could impair growth of our profitability. In addition, despite our high ethical standards and rigorous controls and compliance policies aimed at preventing and detecting unlawful conduct, given the breadth and scope of our international operations, we may not be able to detect all potential improper or unlawful conduct by our employees and partners.  Such improper or unlawful conduct (actual or alleged) could lead to litigation and regulatory action, cause damage to our reputation and that of our brands, and result in substantial costs. Our reported results could be adversely affected by unfavorable currency exchange rates and currency fluctuations could impair our competitiveness. Our results could also be adversely affected by capital controls or by foreign currency exchange constraints or devaluations. We conduct our business primarily in local currency and, for purposes of financial reporting, the local currency results are translated into U.S. dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during a reporting period. Foreign currencies may fluctuate significantly against the U.S. dollar, reducing our net revenues, operating income and EPS.  Our primary local currency cost bases may be different from our primary currency revenue markets, and U.S. dollar fluctuations against various currencies may have disproportionate negative impact on cash flows and on net revenues as compared to our gross profit and operating income margins. Capital controls and/or foreign currency exchange constraints may affect the ability of our subsidiaries in impacted jurisdictions to settle foreign currency denominated imports of goods and services and/or to pay dividends and royalties. These factors may also increase foreign currency devaluation risks, which may have a negative impact on our net assets and results of operations in these jurisdictions. All of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, including our leverage ratios, cash flows, net earnings, and profitability. A sustained period of elevated inflation across the markets in which we operate could result in higher operating and financing costs and lead to reduced demand for our products. Increasing inflationary pressures has and may continue to result in significant increases to our expenses, including direct materials, wages, energy, and transportation costs. While we take actions, wherever possible, to reduce the impact of the effects of inflation, in cases of sustained and elevated inflation across several of our major markets, it may be difficult to effectively control the increases to our costs. In recent periods, increased inflation has and may continue to lead to growing pressures on the cost of certain direct materials, wages, energy, transportation, and logistics as well as an increased cost of capital due to interest rate increases driven by the response to increased inflation. Inflationary pressures may also negatively impact consumer purchasing power, which could result in reduced demand for our products. We expect certain inflationary elements to ease, with a moderate increase in 2024. If we are unable to increase our prices sufficiently or take other actions to mitigate the effect of inflationary pressures, our profitability and financial position could be negatively impacted. 14 Risks Related to Legal Challenges and Investigations Litigation related to tobacco use and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke could substantially reduce our profitability and could severely impair our liquidity. There is litigation related to tobacco products pending in certain jurisdictions in which we operate. Damages claimed in some tobacco-related litigation are significant and, in certain cases in Brazil, Canada, and Nigeria, range into the billions of U.S. dollars. We anticipate that new cases will continue to be filed. The FCTC encourages litigation against tobacco product manufacturers. It is possible that our consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position could be materially adversely affected in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of certain pending litigation. We face various administrative and legal challenges related to certain RRP activities, including allegations concerning product classification, advertising restrictions, corporate communications, product coach activities, scientific substantiation, product liability, antitrust, and unfair competition.  While we design our programs to comply with relevant regulations, we expect these or similar challenges to continue as we expand our efforts to commercialize RRPs and to communicate with the public. The outcomes of these matters may affect our RRP commercialization and public communication activities and performance in one or more markets. Also see Item 8, Note 18. Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of pending litigation. From time to time, we are subject to governmental investigations on a range of matters. Investigations include allegations of contraband shipments of cigarettes, allegations of unlawful pricing activities within certain markets, allegations of underpayment of income taxes, customs duties and/or excise taxes, allegations of false and misleading usage of descriptors, allegations of unlawful advertising, and allegations of unlawful labor practices. We cannot predict the outcome of those investigations or whether additional investigations may be commenced, and it is possible that our business could be materially adversely affected by an unfavorable outcome of pending or future investigations. See Item 8, Note 18. Contingencies—Other Litigation and Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Operating Results by Business Segment—Business Environment—Governmental Investigations for a description of certain governmental investigations to which we are subject. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, and disputes relating to intellectual property rights could harm our business. Our intellectual property rights are valuable assets, their protection is important to our business, and that protection may not be equally available in every country in which we operate or in which our products are sold. If the steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights globally, including through applying for, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing, where relevant, a combination of trademark, design, copyright, patent, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights, are inadequate, or if others infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property rights, notwithstanding legal protection, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Moreover, failing to manage our existing and/or future intellectual property may place us at a competitive disadvantage.  Intellectual property rights of third parties may limit our ability to develop, manufacture and/or commercialize our products in one or more markets. Competitors or other third parties may claim that we infringe their intellectual property rights. Any such claims, regardless of merit, could divert management’s attention, be costly, disruptive, time-consuming and unpredictable and expose us to significant litigation costs and damages, and may impede our ability to develop, manufacture and/or commercialize new or existing RRPs and improve our products, and thus have a material adverse effect on our revenue and our profitability. In addition, if, as a result, we are unable to manufacture or sell our RRPs or improve their quality in one or more markets, our ability to convert adult smokers to our RRPs in such markets would be adversely affected. See Item 8, Note 18. Contingencies—Other Litigation to our consolidated financial statements for a description of certain intellectual property proceedings. 15 Risks Related to our Competitive Environment We face intense competition, and our failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. We are subject to highly competitive conditions in all aspects of our business. We compete primarily on the basis of product quality, brand recognition, brand loyalty, taste, R&D, innovation, packaging, customer service, marketing, advertising and retail price and, increasingly, adult smoker willingness to convert to our RRPs. The competitive environment and our competitive position can be significantly influenced by weak economic conditions; erosion of consumer confidence; competitors' introduction of lower-price products or innovative products; novel products which given their taste characteristics may be more commercially successful; higher product taxes; higher absolute prices and larger gaps between retail price categories; and product regulation that diminishes the ability to differentiate tobacco products, restricts adult consumer access to truthful and non-misleading information about our RRPs, or disproportionately impacts the commercialization of our products in relation to our competitors. Competitors in our industry include British American Tobacco plc, Japan Tobacco Inc., Imperial Brands plc, new market entrants, particularly with respect to innovative products, several regional and local tobacco companies and, in some instances, state-owned tobacco enterprises, principally in Algeria, Egypt, China, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam. Some competitors have different profit, volume and regulatory objectives, some international competitors may be less susceptible than PMI to changes in currency exchange rates, and some competitors may sell products in circumvention of applicable regulations that compete directly with our products. Certain new market entrants in the non-combustible product category may alienate consumers from innovative products through inappropriate marketing campaigns, messaging and inferior product satisfaction, and without scientific substantiation based on appropriate R&D protocols and standards. The growing use of digital media could increase the speed and extent of the dissemination of inaccurate and misleading information about our RRPs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. See Item 1, Business—Competition for a description of the competitive environment in which we operate. We may be unable to anticipate changes in adult consumer preferences. Our business is subject to changes in adult consumer preferences, which may be influenced by local economic conditions, accessibility to our products and availability of accurate information related to our products. To be successful, we must: In periods of economic uncertainty, adult consumers may tend to purchase low-price brands, and the volume of our premium-price and mid-price brands and our profitability could be materially adversely impacted as a result. Such down-trading trends may be reinforced by regulation that limits branding, communication and product differentiation. In addition to economic uncertainty (including recessions and inflation) unusual weather events and global or local epidemics, endemics or pandemics (such as COVID-19) has and may change the preferences of our adult consumers and lower demand for our products, particularly for our mid-price or premium-price brands. Our ability to grow profitability may be limited by our inability to introduce new products, enter new markets, maintain sufficient production capacity, or improve our margins through higher pricing and improvements in our brand and geographic mix. Our profit growth may be materially adversely impacted if we are unable to introduce new products or enter new markets successfully, to meet the demand for our products with increased production capacity, to raise prices, or to improve the proportion of our sales of higher margin products and in higher margin geographies. 16 We may be unable to expand our brand portfolio through acquisitions or the development of strategic business relationships, and the intended benefits from our investments may not materialize. One element of our growth strategy is to expand our brand portfolio and market positions through selective acquisitions and the development of strategic business relationships. Acquisition and strategic business development opportunities are limited and present risks of failing to achieve efficient and effective integration, strategic objectives and/or anticipated revenue improvements and cost savings. There is no assurance that we will be able to acquire attractive businesses or enter into strategic business relationships on favorable terms ahead of our competitors, or that such acquisitions or strategic business development relationships will be accretive to earnings or improve our competitive position. In addition, we may not have a controlling position in certain strategic investments or relationships, which could impact the extent to which the intended financial growth and other benefits from these investments or relationships may ultimately materialize. Our ability to achieve our strategic goals may be impaired if we fail to attract, motivate and retain the best global talent and effectively align our organizational design with the goals of our transformation. To be successful, we must continue transforming our culture and ways of working, align our talent and organizational design with our increasingly complex business needs, and innovate and transform to a consumer-centric business. We compete for talent, including in areas that are relatively new to us such as digital, information technology, and life sciences, with companies in the consumer products, technology, pharmaceutical and other sectors that enjoy greater societal acceptance. As a result, we may be unable to attract, motivate and retain the best global talent with the right degree of diversity, experience and skills to achieve our strategic goals. Risks Related to Illicit Trade We lose revenues as a result of counterfeiting, contraband, cross-border purchases, "illicit whites," non-tax-paid volume produced by local manufacturers, and counterfeiting of our smoke-free products' devices and consumables. Large quantities of counterfeit cigarettes are sold in the international market. We believe that Marlboro is the most heavily counterfeited international cigarette brand, although we cannot quantify the revenues we lose as a result of this activity. In addition, our revenues are reduced by contraband, cross-border purchases, "illicit whites" and non-tax-paid volume produced by local manufacturers.  Our revenues and consumer satisfaction with our smoke-free products' devices and consumables may be materially adversely affected by counterfeit products that do not meet our product quality standards and scientific validation procedures. Risks Related to Cybersecurity and Data Governance We are significantly dependent on our and third-party information technology networks and systems, and a cybersecurity incident or attack against those networks or systems may adversely impact our business and operations. We and our business partners heavily rely on information technology networks and systems, including those connected to the Internet, to help manage business processes and operations, including the collection, storage, interpretation, and processing of confidential, sensitive, personal and other data; internal and external communications; marketing and e-commerce activities; the manufacture, sale, and distribution of our products; management of third-party business relationships; engagement with governmental authorities; innovation through research and development; and other activities necessary for  business operations. Some of these information systems and networks are developed, supplied, or managed by third-party service providers that may make us vulnerable to “supply chain” style cyberattacks. The failure or disruption of our information technology networks and systems, or those managed by third-party service providers or owned by our business partners and used in furtherance of PMI’s business, due to cybersecurity attacks; unauthorized attempts to corrupt or extract data; security vulnerabilities; misconfigurations; human error; or failure or inability by us, third-parties, or our business partners to adhere to cybersecurity industry best practices, could place us at a competitive disadvantage, cause reputational damage, impact our operations, result in data breaches, significant business disruption, litigation, regulatory action including significant fines or penalties, financial impact, loss of revenue or assets including our intellectual property, personal, confidential, or sensitive data. Cyberattacks, security incidents and vulnerabilities impacting PMI, newly acquired companies, our business partners, or our third-party providers, continue to dynamically evolve in sophistication and volume, making it difficult for us to predict probability, frequency, and impact severity of security incidents. Further, it may be inherently difficult to detect vulnerabilities during due diligence, for long periods of time, or soon enough to mitigate exploitation. There can be no assurance that such security incidents or vulnerabilities will not have a material adverse effect on us in the future. While PMI works to mitigate these risks by implementing a cybersecurity risk program and a third-party cybersecurity risk management program, there can be no assurance that these programs are comprehensive or accurately identify and sufficiently mitigate all cybersecurity risks. We continue to make investments in administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to maintain information security protections in line with industry standards and best practices. We evaluate the adequacy of preventative actions to reduce security incidents on an ongoing basis. 17 Our safeguards may not, however, be effective in mitigating the impact of service disruptions or other failures of these information technology networks and systems. Failure to timely respond and mitigate security incidents, could result in wide-ranging business interruptions. Such security incidents could place us at a competitive disadvantage; result in financial impacts, a loss of revenue, assets, including our intellectual property, personal or other sensitive data; result in litigation and regulatory action including significant fines or penalties; impact our operations; cause damage to our reputation and that of our brands; and result in significant remediation and other costs. See Item 1C. Cybersecurity for a description of our cybersecurity risk management and strategy and governance. Our or our business partners’ failure or inability to adhere to privacy, data, artificial intelligence and information security laws could result in business disruption, loss of reputation and consumer trust, litigation, regulatory action including significant fines or penalties, financial impact, and loss of revenue, assets or personal, confidential, or sensitive data. An actual or alleged failure to comply with complex and changing privacy, data, artificial intelligence and information security laws and regulations under the EU General Data Protection Regulation, various U.S. state and federal laws, and other similar privacy and information security laws across the jurisdictions in which PMI operates, such as the failure to protect personal data; implement appropriate technological and reasonable security measures; implement and maintain appropriate safeguards for personal data being transferred internationally; respect the privacy rights of data subjects; provide sufficient detailed notices of personal data processing; retrieve consent and provide opt-outs; meet stringent timeframe requirements for incident reporting to regulatory authorities; comply with artificial intelligence regulations; and others, could have a material adverse effect on us, subject us to substantial fines and/or legal challenges, and/or harm our business, reputation, financial condition, or operating results. Such laws and regulations across the jurisdictions in which PMI operates may vary, resulting in inconsistent or conflicting legal obligations. Risks Related to Swedish Match and Vectura Fertin Pharma We may be unable to fully realize the expected benefits from the acquisitions of Swedish Match or Vectura Fertin Pharma. Since 2021, we have acquired Swedish Match, OtiTopic, Fertin Pharma and Vectura (collectively, the "Acquisitions"), and subsequently launched Vectura Fertin Pharma, our new Wellness and Healthcare business, consolidating OtiTopic, Fertin Pharma and Vectura. The anticipated benefits of the Acquisitions may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. Furthermore, the success of the Acquisitions also depends on the continued successful commercialization and growth of Swedish Match's products in highly competitive markets and on the success of the research and development efforts of Vectura Fertin Pharma, including the ability to obtain regulatory approval for new products, and the ability to commercialize or license these new products developed by them. Moreover, our combustible product portfolio may stand in the way of introducing and growing new Wellness and Healthcare product categories and may prevent our business from developing a long-term sustainable ecosystem of products in the wellness, therapeutic, and healthcare categories. Swedish Match and Vectura Fertin Pharma may have liabilities that are not known to us. The businesses that we have acquired may have liabilities that we were unable to identify, or were unable to discover, in the course of performing our due diligence investigations during the Acquisitions thereof. There is no assurance that the indemnification available to us under the respective acquisition agreements, will be sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the possible liabilities associated with the respective business or property that we assumed upon consummation of each Acquisition. Furthermore, the acquisition of Swedish Match was structured as a direct purchase of shares from Swedish Match shareholders and therefore did not include an acquisition agreement or indemnification rights. Any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accounting adjustments related to the Acquisitions could adversely affect our financial results. We accounted for the completion of the Acquisitions using the acquisition method of accounting. Given the nature of the assets acquired in the Acquisitions, we may not be able to avoid future impairments of those assets, which may also have a material impact on our future results of operation and financial position. 18 PMI, Swedish Match and Vectura Fertin Pharma may be subject to uncertainties that could adversely affect our respective businesses, and adversely affect the financial results of our combined businesses. Our success following these Acquisitions depends in part upon our ability and the ability of each of Swedish Match and Vectura Fertin Pharma to maintain business relationships. The effect of the Acquisitions on customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies of each of Swedish Match, Fertin Pharma and Vectura, may have a material adverse effect on us and/or the businesses that we have acquired through the Acquisitions. Customers, suppliers and others who do business with Swedish Match or Vectura Fertin Pharma may delay or defer business decisions, decide to terminate, modify or renegotiate their relationships, or take other actions, which could negatively affect the revenues, earnings and cash flows of our company or the businesses that we have acquired. Regulatory changes may have an impact on the development and/or commercialization of products which originate from the Swedish Match or Vectura Fertin Pharma value chains, as well as our revenues, earnings and cash flow. If we are unable to maintain the business and operational relationships of Swedish Match, or of Vectura Fertin Pharma, our financial position, results of operations or cash flows upon combining with these companies could be adversely affected.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the consolidated financial statements and related notes contained in Item 8, and the discussion of risks and cautionary factors that may affect future results in Item 1A. Risk Factors . Description of Our Company We are a leading international tobacco company, actively delivering a smoke-free future.  We are evolving our portfolio for the long term to include products outside of the tobacco and nicotine sector. Our current product portfolio primarily consists of cigarettes and smoke-free products. Since 2008, we have invested $12.5 billion to develop, scientifically substantiate and commercialize innovative smoke-free products for adults who would otherwise continue to smoke, with the goal of completely ending the sale of cigarettes. This investment includes the building of world-class scientific assessment capabilities, notably in the areas of pre-clinical systems toxicology, clinical and behavioral research, as well as post-market studies. In November 2022, we acquired Swedish Match AB ("Swedish Match"), a leader in oral nicotine delivery, creating a global smoke-free combination led by the companies’ IQOS and ZYN brands.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA") has authorized versions of our IQOS Platform 1 devices and consumables, and Swedish Match's General snus, as Modified Risk Tobacco Products ("MRTPs"). We describe the MRTP orders in more detail in the "Business Environment" section of this Item 7. In January 2023, we began managing our business in four geographical segments, down from six previously, in addition to our continuing Swedish Match and Wellness and Healthcare segments:  As of December 31, 2023, our operating segments were as follows: • Europe Region; • South and Southeast Asia, Commonwealth of Independent States, Middle East and Africa Region ("SSEA, CIS & MEA"); • East Asia, Australia, and PMI Duty Free Region ("EA, AU & PMI DF"); • Americas Region; • Swedish Match, which reflects our fourth quarter 2022 acquisition of the company; and • Wellness and Healthcare ("W&H"), which includes the operating results of our Vectura Fertin Pharma business. Following the combination and the progress in 2023 toward integrating the Swedish Match business into the existing PMI regional segment structure, we will update our segment reporting by including Swedish Match results in the four existing geographical segments. As of the first quarter of 2024, we will report on this basis. Our cigarettes are sold in approximately 175 markets, and in many of these markets they hold the number one or number two market share position. We have a wide range of premium, mid-price and low-price brands.  Our portfolio comprises both international and local brands. Smoke-free products (also referred to herein as "SFPs") is the term we primarily use to refer to all of our products that are not combustible tobacco products, such as heat-not-burn, e-vapor, and oral nicotine. In addition, SFPs include wellness and healthcare products, as well as consumer accessories such as lighters and matches. In addition to the manufacture and sale of cigarettes, we are engaged in the development and commercialization of reduced-risk products ("RRPs").  RRPs is the term we use to refer to products that present, are likely to present, or have the potential to present less risk of harm to smokers who switch to these products versus continuing smoking. We have a range of RRPs in various stages of development, scientific assessment and commercialization. Our RRPs are SFPs that contain and/or generate far lower quantities of harmful and potentially harmful constituents than found in cigarette smoke. IQOS is the leading brand in our SFPs portfolio.  As of December 31, 2023, our smoke-free products were available for sale in 84 markets. 24 In 2021, we laid the foundation for our long-term growth ambitions beyond nicotine in wellness and healthcare, including the milestone acquisitions of Vectura Group plc ("Vectura") and Fertin Pharma A/S ("Fertin Pharma"), which provide essential capabilities for future product development.  Now, through our Vectura Fertin Pharma business, with a strong foundation and significant expertise in life sciences, we aim to expand into wellness and healthcare areas. In 2022, we acquired Swedish Match AB, a market leader in oral nicotine delivery with a significant presence in the United States market.  The Swedish Match acquisition is a key milestone in PMI’s transformation to becoming a smoke-free company.  Swedish Match has a leading nicotine pouch franchise in the U.S. under the ZYN brand name.  The Swedish Match product portfolio is complementary to our existing portfolio, permitting us to bring together a leading oral nicotine product with the leading heat-not-burn product. By joining forces with Swedish Match, we expect to accelerate the achievement of our joint smoke-free ambitions, switching more adults who would otherwise continue to smoke cigarettes to better alternatives faster than either company could achieve separately. In 2022, we also completed an agreement with Altria Group, Inc. to end our commercial relationship in the U.S. covering IQOS as of April 30, 2024. Thereafter, PMI will hold the full rights to commercialize IQOS in the U.S.  On July, 14, 2023, we made the final payment to Altria under the terms of the agreement. For further details of our 2021 and 2022 acquisitions, as well as the agreement with Altria Group, Inc., see Item 8, Note 3. Acquisitions and the "Business Environment" section of this Item 7 We use the term net revenues to refer to our operating revenues from the sale of our products, including shipping and handling charges billed to customers, net of sales and promotion incentives, and excise taxes.  Our net revenues and operating income are affected by various factors, including the volume of products we sell, the price of our products, changes in currency exchange rates and the mix of products we sell.  Mix is a term used to refer to the proportionate value of premium-price brands to mid-price or low-price brands in any given market (product mix).  Mix can also refer to the proportion of shipment volume in more profitable markets versus shipment volume in less profitable markets (geographic mix). Our cost of sales consists principally of: tobacco leaf, non-tobacco raw materials, labor and manufacturing costs; shipping and handling costs; and the cost of devices produced by third-party electronics manufacturing service providers.  Estimated costs associated with device warranty programs are generally provided for in cost of sales in the period the related revenues are recognized. Our marketing, administration and research costs include the costs of marketing and selling our products, other costs generally not related to the manufacture of our products (including general corporate expenses), and costs incurred to develop new products.  The most significant components of our marketing, administration and research costs are marketing and sales expenses and general and administrative expenses. Philip Morris International Inc. is a legal entity separate and distinct from its direct and indirect subsidiaries.  Accordingly, our right, and thus the right of our creditors and stockholders, to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of any subsidiary is subject to the prior rights of creditors of such subsidiary, except to the extent that claims of our company itself as a creditor may be recognized.  As a holding company, our principal sources of funds, including funds to make payment on our debt securities, are from the receipt of dividends and repayment of debt from our subsidiaries. Our principal wholly owned and majority-owned subsidiaries currently are not limited by long-term debt or other agreements in their ability to pay cash dividends or to make other distributions that are otherwise compliant with law. Executive Summary The following executive summary provides the business update and significant highlights from the Discussion and Analysis that follows. Global Patent Settlement On February 1, 2024, we entered into a global settlement agreement with British American Tobacco p.l.c. ("BAT") that resolves all ongoing patent infringement litigation between the parties related to heated tobacco and vapor products. The settlement includes non-monetary provisions between PMI and BAT that resolve all ongoing global patent infringement litigation, encompassing all related injunctions and exclusion orders, and prevents patent infringement and certain other future claims against current heated tobacco and vapor products.  Under the settlement PMI and BAT also agreed to request rescission of the Limited Exclusion Order and Cease and Desist Order issued by the International Trade Commission prohibiting the importation of certain heat-not-burn products by PMI and 25 its affiliates into the U.S.  The settlement also allows each party to innovate and introduce product iterations.  For further details, see Item 8, Note 18. Contingencies . War in Ukraine In Ukraine, our main priority remains the safety and security of our employees and their families in the country. We continue commercial activities in select locations where safety allows, in order to provide product availability and service to adult consumers, and supply the market from production centers outside Ukraine, as well as through a contract manufacturing arrangement.  Production at our factory in Kharkiv remains suspended. On June 20, 2023, we announced the investment of $30 million in a new production facility in the Lviv region, in Western Ukraine. Preparatory work for the facility began in July 2023 and production is expected to commence in the first quarter of 2024. As of December 31, 2023, our Ukrainian operations had approximately $0.4 billion in total assets, excluding intercompany balances. In Russia, we are continuously assessing the evolving situation in the country. This includes regulatory constraints in the market entailing very complex terms and conditions that must be met for any divestment transaction to be granted approval by the authorities, and restrictions resulting from international regulations. In the event of a divestment, our ability to fully realize the value of the business would likely be subject to material impairment.  As of December 31, 2023, our Russian operations had approximately $2.7 billion in total assets, excluding intercompany balances, of which approximately $0.8 billion consisted of cash and equivalents held mostly in local currency (Russian rubles). Additionally, we hold a 23% equity interest in Megapolis Distribution BV, the holding company of CJSC TK Megapolis, PMI's distributor in Russia.  For further details, see Item 8, Note 6. Related Parties – Equity Investments and Other . These developments above have and will continue to have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position, and may result in impairment charges. For further details, see Item 8, Note 4. War in Ukraine to our consolidated financial statements, as well as Item 1A. Risk Factors and the " Trade Policy " section of this Item 7. Consolidated Operating Results • Net Revenues – Net revenues of $35.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023, increased by $3.4 billion, or 10.7%, from the comparable 2022 amount.  The change in our net revenues from the comparable 2022 amount was driven by the following (variances not to scale): Net revenues increased by 10.7%, including the impact of the Swedish Match acquisition and currency.  Net revenues, excluding currency and acquisitions, increased by 7.6%, mainly reflecting: a favorable pricing variance, primarily driven by higher combustible tobacco pricing, and favorable volume/mix, mainly driven by higher HTU volume, partially offset by lower cigarette volume. The increase was partly offset by lower fees for certain distribution rights billed to customers in certain markets and a charge to net revenues in 2023 of $80 million following the termination of a distribution arrangement in the Middle East, both shown in "Other." The termination of a distribution arrangement in the Middle East is further described in the following " Diluted Earnings Per Share " discussion. 26 Net revenues by product category for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, are shown below: 27 • Diluted Earnings Per Share – The changes in our reported diluted earnings per share (“diluted EPS”) for the year ended December 31, 2023, from the comparable 2022 amounts, were as follows: Charges related to the war in Ukraine – During 2022, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $151 million (representing $128 million net of income tax and a diluted EPS charge of $0.08 per share), related to circumstances driven by the war, including machinery and inventory write-downs, additional allowances for receivables and the cost of PMI’s humanitarian efforts. During 2023, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $53 million (representing $43 million net of income tax and a diluted EPS charge of $0.03 per share), related to circumstances driven by the war, including the cost of PMI’s humanitarian efforts, severance payments, as well as an impairment of certain long-lived assets. For further details, see Item 8, Note 4. War in Ukraine . Fair value adjustment for equity security investments – During 2022, we recorded a favorable fair value adjustment for our equity security investments in India and Sri Lanka ($0.02 per share increase in diluted EPS). During 2023, we recorded a favorable fair value adjustment for our equity security investments in India and Sri Lanka ($0.02 per share increase in diluted EPS). For further details, see Item 8, Note 6. Related Parties - Equity Investments and Other . 28 Amortization of intangibles – During 2022, we recorded amortization of intangibles expense of $159 million (representing $129 million net of income tax or $0.09 per share decrease in diluted EPS). During 2023, we recorded amortization of intangibles expense of $497 million (representing $389 million net of income tax or $0.25 per share decrease in diluted EPS). The higher amortization expense in 2023 was primarily due to increased acquired intangible assets recorded as a result of our acquisitions in 2022. For further details, see Item 8, Note 5. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, net . Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles – During 2022, we recorded an impairment charge related to definite-lived intangible assets of $112 million (representing $98 million net of income tax and a diluted EPS charge of $0.06 per share) reflecting the impact of general economic and market conditions resulting in a reduction in future estimated cash flows on certain products within the Wellness and Healthcare segment. This impairment charge was recorded within cost of sales in the consolidated statements of earnings for the year ended December 31, 2022. During the second quarter of 2023, we completed our annual review of goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets for potential impairment. Based on this review, it was determined that the estimated fair value of the Wellness and Healthcare reporting unit was lower than its carrying value. Consequently, we recorded a total non-cash impairment charge of $680 million (representing a $0.44 per share decrease in diluted EPS) consisting of a goodwill impairment charge of $665 million and a non-amortizable intangible asset pre-tax impairment charge of $15 million for an in-process research and development project related to one of our 2021 acquisitions. The impairment charge was recorded in impairment of goodwill ($665 million) and marketing, administration and research costs ($15 million) within the consolidated statements of earnings during the year ended December 31, 2023, and was included in the Wellness and Healthcare segment results. For further details, see Item 8, Note 5. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, net . Costs associated with Swedish Match AB offer – During 2022, we incurred pre-tax costs associated with the Swedish Match offer of $116 million (representing $99 million net of income tax and a diluted EPS charge of $0.06 per share) primarily related to financing costs, derivative financial instruments and certain transaction related costs. These pre-tax costs of $116 million were recorded in marketing, administration and research costs ($115 million expense) and interest expense, net ($1 million expense) on our consolidated statement of earnings for the year ended December 31, 2022. Swedish Match AB acquisition accounting related item – Following the Swedish Match acquisition, we recorded in 2022 pre-tax purchase accounting adjustments of $125 million related to the sale of acquired inventories stepped up to fair value (representing $94 million net of income tax and a diluted EPS charge of $0.06 per share). During 2023, we recorded pre-tax purchase accounting adjustments of $18 million related to the sale of acquired inventories stepped up to fair value (representing $13 million net of income tax and a diluted EPS charge of $0.01 per share).  These pre-tax adjustments were recorded in cost of sales in the consolidated statements of earnings for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022.  For further details, see Item 8, Note 3. Acquisitions . Asset impairment and exit costs – During 2023, we recorded pre-tax asset impairment and exit costs of $109 million, representing $96 million net of income tax and a diluted EPS charge of $0.06 per share, related to a project to fully outsource and restructure the manufacturing of e-vapor devices and consumables.  For further details, see Item 8, Note 20. Asset Impairment and Exit Costs . South Korea indirect tax charge – On July 13, 2023, our South Korean subsidiary, PM Korea, received an adverse ruling from the Supreme Court of South Korea related to cases alleging underpayment of excise taxes in connection with a 2015 excise tax increase and subsequent audit by the South Korean Board of Audit and Inspection. The Supreme Court ruling reversed previous decisions that were in PM Korea’s favor at the trial and appellate levels. As a result of the ruling, we concluded that an adverse outcome is probable. Consequently, we recorded a non-cash pre-tax charge of $204 million (representing $174 million net of income tax or $0.11 per share decrease in diluted EPS) in the second quarter results of 2023, reflecting the full amount previously paid by PM Korea. For further details, see Item 8, Note 18. Contingencies . Termination of agreement with Foundation for a Smoke-Free World – On September 29, 2023, PMI and the Foundation for a Smoke-Free World (the "Foundation") entered into the Final Grant Agreement and Termination of the Second Amended and Restated Pledge Agreement ("Agreement").  Under the terms of the Agreement, PMI paid $140 million in the third quarter of 2023 in return for the termination of the pledge agreement between the parties. As a result, in the third quarter of 2023, PMI recorded a pre-tax charge of $140 million (representing $111 million net of income tax or $0.07 per share decrease in diluted EPS) commensurate with the early termination of the pledge agreement. The pre-tax charge was recorded in marketing, administration and research costs in the consolidated statements of earnings during the year ended December 31, 2023. For further details, see "Other Developments" within the Business Environment section of this Item 7. 29 Termination of distribution arrangement in the Middle East – Following the termination of a distribution arrangement in the Middle East, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $80 million in the first quarter of 2023 (representing $70 million net of income tax and a diluted EPS charge of $0.04 per share). The pre-tax charge was recorded as a reduction of net revenues in the consolidated statements of earnings and was included in the SSEA, CIS & MEA segment results. Income taxes – The Income tax impact associated with Swedish Match AB financing that increased our 2022 diluted EPS by $0.13 per share and  increased our 2023 diluted EPS by $0.11 per share in the table above was due to a deferred tax benefit for unrealized foreign currency losses on intercompany loans related to the Swedish Match acquisition financing reflected in the consolidated statements of earnings, while the underlying pre-tax foreign currency movements fully offset in the consolidated statements of earnings and were reflected as currency translation adjustments in the consolidated statements of stockholders' (deficit) equity. The 2022 Tax items that increased our 2022 diluted EPS by $0.03 per share in the table above were due to a reduction in deferred tax liabilities related to pension plan assets of $40 million. The 2023 tax items that decreased our 2023 diluted EPS by $0.11 per share in the table above were due to an increase in deferred tax liabilities related to the unremitted earnings of PMI's Russian subsidiaries due to the unilateral suspension of certain Russian double tax treaties by the Russian authorities on August 8, 2023, with respect to certain payments including dividends. The change in the tax rate that increased our diluted EPS by $0.03 per share in the table above was primarily due to changes in earnings mix by taxing jurisdiction. Currency – The unfavorable impact of $0.63 per share during the reporting period primarily results from the fluctuations of the U.S. dollar, especially against the Argentine peso, Egyptian pound, Japanese yen, Russian ruble and Swiss franc, partly offset by the Euro.  This unfavorable currency movement has impacted our profitability across our primary revenue markets and local currency cost bases. Interest – The unfavorable impact of $0.21 per share from interest in the table above was due primarily to higher interest expense in connection with the Swedish Match acquisition, partially offset by higher net interest income driven by higher interest rates. Operations – The increase in diluted EPS of $0.84 per share from our operations in the table above was due primarily to the following segments: • Swedish Match: Reflecting the 2023 impact following the fourth quarter 2022 acquisition;  and • EA, AU & PMI DF: Favorable volume/mix, favorable pricing and lower supply chain costs; partially offset by • Americas: Unfavorable volume/mix and higher marketing, administration and research costs, partly offset by favorable pricing; • SSEA, CIS & MEA: Higher marketing, administration and research costs, higher manufacturing costs, unfavorable volume/mix and the impact of lower fees for certain distribution rights billed to customers in certain markets, partly offset by favorable pricing; • Wellness and Healthcare: Primarily reflecting commercial investments and higher administration costs; and • Europe: Higher marketing, administration and research costs, higher manufacturing costs and unfavorable volume/mix, partly offset by favorable pricing. For further details, see the Consolidated Operating Results and Operating Results by Business Segment sections of the following Discussion and Analysis . Discussion and Analysis Critical Accounting Estimates Item 8, Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements includes a summary of the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. In most instances, we must use a particular accounting policy or method because it is the only one that is permitted under U.S. GAAP. 30 The preparation of financial statements requires that we use estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, net revenues and expenses, as well as our disclosure of contingencies. If actual amounts differ from previous estimates, we include the revisions in our consolidated results of operations in the period during which we know the actual amounts. Historically, aggregate differences, if any, between our estimates and actual amounts in any year have not had a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. The selection and disclosure of our critical accounting estimates have been discussed with our Audit & Risk Committee. The following is a discussion of the more significant assumptions, estimates, accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements: Acquisitions - PMI accounts for business combinations using the acquisition method of accounting.  PMI allocates the purchase price of an acquired business to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their estimated fair values at the acquisition date with the excess recorded as Goodwill.  The fair value of the applicable assets acquired and liabilities assumed is determined through established valuation techniques, such as the income, cost or market approach. PMI may utilize third-party valuation experts to assist in the fair value determination of certain assets acquired and liabilities assumed.  The determination of fair value requires management to make judgements and may involve the use of significant estimates, including assumptions with respect to estimated projected revenue growth, future cash flows, terminal growth rates, useful economic lives of intangible assets acquired, discount rates, royalty rates and other factors.   Certain acquired intangibles are expected to have indefinite lives based on their history and PMI’s intent to continue to support and build the intangible. Although PMI believes its estimates of fair value are reasonable, actual financial results could differ from those estimates. Changes in assumptions related to future financial results or other underlying assumptions could have a significant impact on the determination of the fair value of the intangible assets acquired. See Item 8, Note 3. Acquisitions to our consolidated financial statements for details of the critical accounting estimates relevant to the business combinations in the periods presented in this Form 10-K. Revenue Recognition - We recognize revenue as performance obligations are satisfied.  Our primary performance obligation is the distribution and sales of cigarettes and smoke-free products, including heat-not-burn, e-vapor and oral nicotine products.  Our performance obligations are typically satisfied upon shipment or delivery to our customers.  PMI estimates the cost of sales returns based on historical experience, and these estimates are immaterial.  Estimated costs associated with warranty programs for IQOS devices are generally provided for in cost of sales in the period the related revenues are recognized, based on a number of factors, including historical experience, product failure rates and warranty policies.  The transaction price is typically based on the amount billed to the customer and includes estimated variable consideration where applicable.  Such variable consideration is typically not constrained and is estimated based on the most likely amount that PMI expects to be entitled to under the terms of the contracts with customers, historical experience of discount or rebate redemption, where relevant, and the terms of any underlying discount or rebate programs, which may change from time to time as the business and product categories evolve. Goodwill and Non-Amortizable Intangible Assets Valuation - We test goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets for impairment annually or more frequently if events occur that would warrant such review, using either a qualitative or quantitative assessment for each of our reporting units. Where a qualitative assessment is followed, we determine whether it is more likely than not that an impairment exists based on qualitative factors such as macroeconomic conditions, industry and competitive conditions, legal and regulatory environment, historical financial performance and significant changes within the reporting unit. If the qualitative assessment indicates that it is more likely than not that an impairment exists, then a quantitative assessment is performed. The quantitative impairment analysis involves comparing the fair value of each reporting unit or non-amortizable intangible asset to the carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value, goodwill or a non-amortizable intangible asset is considered impaired. To determine the fair value of a reporting unit, we use the market approach using earnings multiples of comparable global companies within the tobacco industry and a discounted cash flow model. To determine the fair value of non-amortizable intangible assets, we primarily use a discounted cash flow model applying the relief-from-royalty method. These discounted cash flow models include management assumptions relevant for forecasting operating cash flows, which are subject to changes in business conditions, such as volumes and prices, costs to produce, discount rates and estimated capital needs. Management considers historical experience and all available information at the time the fair values are estimated, and we believe these assumptions are consistent with the assumptions a hypothetical marketplace participant would use. During the second quarter of 2023, PMI completed its annual review of goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets for potential impairment. We performed a quantitative impairment assessment for all of our reporting units and non-amortizable intangible assets with the exception of the three reporting units and non-amortizable intangible asset related to the Swedish Match segment for which we have performed a qualitative assessment. Based on this review, it was determined that the estimated fair value of the Wellness and 31 Healthcare reporting unit was lower than its carrying value. Consequently, PMI recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $665 million.  Additionally, as a result of the impairment test of non-amortizable intangible assets, PMI recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $15 million. There was no impairment charge of goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets for our other reporting units. For additional information, see Item 8, Note 5. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, net . At December 31, 2023, the carrying value of our goodwill was $16.8 billion, which is related to ten geographical reporting units, each of which consists of a group of markets with similar operating and economic characteristics, three reporting units related to the Swedish Match segment and the Wellness and Healthcare business. The estimated fair value of each of our fourteen reporting units and non-amortizable intangible assets exceeded the carrying value as of December 31, 2023. Investment in non-marketable equity securities – We perform a sensitivity analysis to estimate the value of our continuing investment in RBH on an ongoing basis. The analysis includes estimating a range of fair values to determine whether any indicators of impairment exist. The estimated range of fair values of the underlying business and of the contingent liability is determined based on an income approach using a discounted cash flow analysis. The information used in the estimate includes observable inputs, such as discount rates, terminal growth rates, previous court rulings, total tobacco market size in Canada, RBH’s share of the market and tobacco-litigation related expense, as well as unobservable inputs such as operating budgets and strategic plans, various inflation scenarios, estimated shipment volumes, and expected product pricing and projected margins. For further details, see Item 8, Note 6. Related Parties – Equity investments and Other to our consolidated financial statements Marketing Costs - We incur certain costs to support our products through programs that include advertising, marketing, consumer engagement and trade promotions. The costs of our advertising and marketing programs are expensed in accordance with U.S. GAAP.  Recognition of the cost related to our consumer engagement and trade promotion programs contain uncertainties due to the judgment required in estimating the potential performance and compliance for each program. For volume-based incentives provided to customers, management continually assesses and estimates, by customer, the likelihood of the customer's achieving the specified targets, and records the reduction of revenue as the sales are made.  For other trade promotions, management relies on estimated utilization rates that have been developed from historical experience.  Changes in the assumptions used in estimating the cost of any individual marketing program would not result in a material change in our financial position, results of operations or operating cash flows. Employee Benefit Plans - As discussed in Item 8, Note 14. Benefit Plans to our consolidated financial statements, we provide a range of benefits to our employees and retired employees, including pensions, postretirement health care and postemployment benefits (primarily severance). We record annual amounts relating to these plans based on calculations specified by U.S. GAAP. These calculations include various actuarial assumptions, such as discount rates, assumed rates of return on plan assets, compensation increases, mortality, turnover rates and health care cost trend rates. We review actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and make modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends when it is deemed appropriate to do so. As permitted by U.S. GAAP, any effect of the modifications is generally amortized over future periods. We believe that the assumptions utilized in calculating our obligations under these plans are reasonable based upon our historical experience and advice from our actuaries. Weighted-average discount rate assumptions for pension and postretirement plan obligations at December 31, 2023 and 2022 are as follows: We anticipate that assumption changes will increase 2024 pre-tax pension and postretirement expense to approximately $154 million as compared with approximately $106 million in 2023, excluding amounts related to employee severance and early retirement programs. The anticipated increase is primarily due to higher amortization of unrecognized actuarial losses of $72 million, coupled with higher service cost of $39 million, partially offset by higher expected return on assets of $29 million, coupled with lower interest cost of $26 million and other movements of $8 million. Weighted-average expected rate of return and discount rate assumptions have a significant effect on the amount of expense reported for the employee benefit plans. A fifty-basis-point decrease in our discount rate would increase our 2024 pension and postretirement expense by approximately $57 million, and a fifty-basis-point increase in our discount rate would decrease our 2024 pension and postretirement expense by approximately $48 million. Similarly, a fifty-basis-point decrease (increase) in the expected return on plan assets would increase (decrease) our 2024 pension expense by approximately $41 million. 32 Income Taxes - Income tax provisions for jurisdictions outside the United States, as well as state and local income tax provisions, are determined on a separate company basis, and the related assets and liabilities are recorded in our consolidated balance sheets. The extent of our operations involves dealing with uncertainties and judgments in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions. The final taxes paid are dependent upon many factors, including negotiations with taxing authorities in various jurisdictions and resolution of disputes arising from federal, state, and international tax audits. In accordance with the authoritative guidance for income taxes, we evaluate potential tax exposures and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due.  We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. If our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, an additional charge to expense would generally result. If payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be less than the recorded amounts, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. We are required to assess the likelihood of recovering deferred tax assets against future sources of taxable income. If we determine, using all available evidence, that we do not reach the more likely than not threshold for recovery, a valuation allowance is recorded.  Significant judgment is required in determining the need for and amount of valuation allowances for deferred tax assets including estimates of future taxable income in the applicable jurisdictions an d the feasibility of on-going tax planning strategies , as applicable. The effective tax rates used for interim reporting are based on our full-year geographic earnings mix projections.  Changes in currency exchange rates, earnings mix by taxing jurisdiction or future regulatory developments may have an impact on the effective tax rates.  Significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and in evaluating tax positions. For further details, see Item 8, Note 12. Income Taxes to our consolidated financial statements. Hedging - As discussed below in “Market Risk,” we use derivative financial instruments principally to reduce exposures to market risks resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates by creating offsetting exposures. For derivative contracts that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges the gain or loss on the derivative, as well as the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk, is recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings. For our other derivatives to which we have elected to apply hedge accounting, gains and losses on these derivatives are initially deferred in accumulated other comprehensive losses on the consolidated balance sheet and recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings into the same line item as the impact of the underlying transaction and in the periods when the related hedged transactions are also recognized in operating results. Gain (losses) related to derivatives contracts for which hedge accounting provisions have not been elected are recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings. Contingencies - As discussed in Item 8, Note 18. Contingencies , to our consolidated financial statements, legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters are pending or threatened against us, and/or our subsidiaries, and/or our indemnitees in various jurisdictions. We and our subsidiaries record provisions in the consolidated financial statements for pending litigation when we determine that an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The variability in pleadings in multiple jurisdictions, together with the actual experience of management in litigating claims, demonstrate that the monetary relief that may be specified in a lawsuit bears little relevance to the ultimate outcome. Much of the tobacco-related litigation is in its early stages, and litigation is subject to uncertainty. At the present time, except as stated otherwise in Item 8, Note 18. Contingencies, while it is reasonably possible that an unfavorable outcome in a case may occur, after assessing the information available to it: (i) management has not concluded that it is probable that a loss has been incurred in any of the pending tobacco-related cases; (ii) management is unable to estimate the possible loss or range of loss for any of the pending tobacco-related cases; and (iii) accordingly, no estimated loss has been accrued in the consolidated financial statements for unfavorable outcomes in these cases, if any. Legal defense costs are expensed as incurred. 33 Consolidated Operating Results Our net revenues and operating income by segment were as follows: Items affecting the comparability of results from operations were as follows: • Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles – For the year ended December 31, 2023, PMI recorded $680 million of goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets impairment charges that was included in the Wellness and Healthcare segment. For the year ended December 31, 2022, PMI recorded an impairment charge related to definite-lived intangible assets of $112 million. This charge was included in the Wellness and Healthcare segment. For further details, see Item 8, Note 5. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, net . • South Korea indirect tax charge – See Item 8, Note 18. Contingencies for details of the $204 million pre-tax charge included in the EA, AU & PMI DF segment results for the year ended December 31, 2023. • Termination of distribution arrangement in the Middle East – In the first quarter of 2023, PMI recorded a pre-tax charge of $80 million following the termination of a distribution arrangement in the Middle East.  This pre-tax charge was recorded as a reduction of net revenues in the consolidated statements of earnings, and was included in the SSEA, CIS & MEA segment results for the year ended December 31, 2023. • Charges related to the war in Ukraine -  See Item 8, Note 4. War in Ukraine for details of the $53 million and $151 million pre-tax charges in the Europe segment for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. • Swedish Match AB acquisition accounting related item - See Item 8, Note 3. Acquisitions for details of the $18 million and $125 million pre-tax purchase accounting adjustments related to the sale of acquired inventories stepped up to fair value included in the Swedish Match segment for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. • Asset impairment and exit costs - See Item 8, Note 20. Asset Impairment and Exit Costs for details of the $109 million and $216 million pre-tax charges for the year ended December 31, 2023 and 2021, respectively, as well as a breakdown of these costs by segment. • Termination of agreement with Foundation for a Smoke-Free World – On September 29, 2023, PMI and the Foundation for a Smoke-Free World (the "Foundation") entered into the Final Grant Agreement and Termination of the Second Amended and Restated Pledge Agreement ("Agreement").  Under the terms of the agreement, PMI paid $140 million in the third quarter of 2023 in return for the termination of the pledge agreement between the parties.  As a result, in the third quarter of 2023, PMI recorded a pre-tax charge of $140 million commensurate with the early termination of the pledge agreement. The pre-tax charge was recorded in marketing, administration and research costs in the consolidated statements of earnings for the year ended December 31, 2023 and was included in the operating results of the following segments: Europe ($62 million); SSEA, CIS & MEA ($44 million);  EA, AU & PMI DF ($27 million); and Americas ($7 million). 34 • Saudi Arabia customs assessments - In June 2021, PMI recorded a pre-tax charge of $246 million in relation to additional customs duties in Saudi Arabia assessed for the periods of 2014 through 2020 in line with existing and contemplated arrangements with our distributors. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, the charge was recorded as a  reduction in net revenues of combustible tobacco products included in the SSEA, CIS & MEA segment for the year ended December 31, 2021. • Asset acquisition cost - See Item 8, Note 3. Acquisitions for the details of the $51 million pre-tax charge associated with the asset acquisition of OtiTopic, Inc. included in the Wellness and Healthcare segment within the operating income table above for the year ended December 31, 2021. Our net revenues by product category were as follows: Note: Sum of product categories or Regions might not foot to total PMI due to rounding. Net revenues related to combustible tobacco products refer to the operating revenues generated from the sale of these products, including shipping and handling charges billed to customers, net of sales and promotion incentives, and excise taxes. These net revenue amounts consist of the sale of PMI's cigarettes and other tobacco products that are combusted. Other tobacco products primarily include roll-your-own and make-your-own cigarettes, pipe tobacco, cigars and cigarillos and do not include smoke-free products. Net revenues related to smoke-free products refer to the operating revenues generated from the sale of these products, including shipping and handling charges billed to customers, net of sales and promotion incentives, and excise taxes, if applicable. These net revenue amounts consist of the sale of all of PMI's products that are not combustible tobacco products, such as heat-not-burn, e-vapor, and oral nicotine, also including wellness and healthcare products, as well as consumer accessories such as lighters and matches. Net revenues related to wellness and healthcare products consist of operating revenues generated from the sale of products primarily associated with inhaled therapeutics, and oral and intra-oral delivery systems that are included in the operating results of PMI's Wellness and Healthcare business, Vectura Fertin Pharma. PMI's heat-not-burn products include licensed KT&G heat-not-burn products. 35 References to "Cost/Other" in the Consolidated Financial Summary table of total PMI and the six segments throughout this "Discussion and Analysis" reflects the currency-neutral variances of: cost of sales (excluding the volume/mix cost component); marketing, administration and research costs (including asset impairment and exit costs); and amortization and impairment of intangibles.  “Cost/Other” also includes the currency-neutral net revenue variance, unrelated to volume/mix and price components, attributable to: fees for certain distribution rights billed to customers in certain markets in the SSEA, CIS & MEA Region, the revenue adjustment for the termination of a distribution arrangement in the Middle East, and the Saudi Arabia customs assessment net revenue adjustment. Our consolidated shipment volume is shown in the table below: Note: Sum may not foot to total due to roundings Following the deconsolidation of our Canadian subsidiary, we continue to report the volume and corresponding royalty revenues of brands sold by RBH for which other PMI subsidiaries are the trademark owners. These include HEETS , Next , Philip Morris and Rooftop .  The volume and corresponding royalty revenues of these brands sold by RBH were not material to PMI for all periods presented. Heated tobacco units ("HTU") is the term we use to refer to heated tobacco consumables, which include our BLENDS , DELIA , HEETS , HEETS Creations, HEETS Dimensions (defined collectively as " HEETS") , Marlboro HeatSticks, SENTIA, TEREA, TEREA CRAFTED, and TEREA Dimensions, as well as the KT&G-licensed brands, Fiit and Miix (outside of South Korea). HTU's also include zero tobacco heat-not-burn consumables ( LEVIA ). Unless otherwise stated, market share for HTUs is defined as the in-market sales volume for HTUs as a percentage of the total estimated industry sales volume for cigarettes and HTUs. References to total industry (or total market), our shipment volume and our market share performance reflect cigarettes and heated tobacco units, unless otherwise stated. Total industry volume, PMI in-market sales volume and PMI market share for the following geographies include the cigarillo category in Japan: the total international market, EA, AU & PMI DF Region, and Japanese domestic market. In-market sales ("IMS") is defined as sales to the retail channel, depending on the market and distribution model. References to total international market, defined as worldwide cigarette and heated tobacco unit volume excluding the United States, total industry (or total market) and market shares throughout this "Discussion and Analysis" are our estimates for tax-paid products based on the latest available data from a number of internal and external sources and may, in defined instances, exclude China and/or our duty free business. From time to time, PMI’s shipment volumes are subject to the impact of distributor inventory movements (or wholesaler inventory movements in certain markets where PMI does not sell to distributors), and estimated total industry/market volumes are subject to the 36 impact of inventory movements in various trade channels that include estimated trade inventory movements of PMI’s competitors arising from market-specific factors that significantly distort reported volume disclosures. Such factors may include changes to the manufacturing supply chain, shipment methods, consumer demand, timing of excise tax increases or other influences that may affect the timing of sales to customers.  In such instances, in addition to reviewing PMI shipment volumes and certain estimated total industry/market volumes on a reported basis, management reviews these measures on an adjusted basis that excludes the impact of distributor and/or estimated trade inventory movements. Management also believes that disclosing PMI shipment volumes and estimated total industry/market volumes in such circumstances on a basis that excludes the impact of distributor and/or estimated trade inventory movements improves the comparability of performance and trends for these measures over different reporting periods. 2023 compared with 2022 The following discussion compares our consolidated operating results for the year ended December 31, 2023, with the year ended December 31, 2022. Total Market Estimated international industry volume (excluding China and the U.S.) for cigarettes and HTUs of 2.6 trillion, decreased by 1.6%, reflecting declines in the SSEA, CIS & MEA Region, the Europe Region and the Americas Region, partly offset by an increase in the EA, AU & PMI DF Region, as described in the Regional sections of this Item 7. For the full year 2024, we currently expect an estimated total international industry volume decline for cigarettes and HTUs, excluding China and the U.S., of -2% to flat. Shipment Volume Our total cigarette and HTU shipment volume increased by 1.0%, reflecting an 14.7% increase in HTU shipments across all regions, partly offset by a 1.4% decline in cigarette shipments due to declines in the Europe, EA, AU & PMI DF, and Americas Regions, partly offset by the SSEA, CIS & MEA Region. Cigarette shipment volume for Marlboro decreased by 1.9% to 240.0 billion units, due primarily to the Philippines. Our total oral product shipment volume increased by +100%, driven by the Swedish Match acquisition. For comparison purposes, assuming the inclusion of Swedish Match's 2022 shipment volume prior to our acquisition, total oral product shipment volume increased by 16.8%, primarily reflecting growth in nicotine pouches (particularly in the U.S.), partly offset by a decline for snus (mainly in Scandinavia). Swedish Match's total oral product shipment volume increased by 17.1% versus its corresponding shipments in 2022.  Volume comparisons versus Swedish Match's 2022 results reflect data sourced from its disclosures, available at www.swedishmatch.com/investors. For the full year 2024, we currently expect the total cigarette, HTU and oral smoke-free product shipment volume growth for PMI of flat to +1% driven by smoke-free products. For the full year 2024, we also expect nicotine pouch shipment volume in the U.S. of approximately 520 million cans. Adjusted in-market sales for HTUs increased by 14.8% (in line with full-year HTUs shipment volume growth of 14.7%), including growth in Europe of 17.6% and Japan of 14.5%. Excluding Russia and Ukraine, adjusted in market sales for HTUs increased by 17.1%. 37 International Share of Market - Cigarette and HTUs (Excluding China and the United States) 38 Key Market Data Key market data regarding total market size, our shipments and market share were as follows: 39 (1) Cost/Other variance includes charges in 2023 of $80 million following the termination of a distribution arrangement in the Middle East. (2) Cost/Other variance includes charges in 2023 of $15 million related to the war in Ukraine, more than offset by charges in 2022 of $112 million related to an impairment charge of other intangible assets, $62 million related to the war in Ukraine and $125 million of Swedish Match AB acquisition accounting related item. For more details, see Item 8, Note 3. Acquisitions , Note 4. War in Ukraine and Note 5. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, net . (3) Cost/Other variance includes charges in 2023 of $109 million related to asset impairment and exit costs, the South Korea indirect tax charge of $204 million, an impairment charge for other intangibles of $15 million, the termination of a pledge agreement with the Foundation for a Smoke-Free World of $140 million, and $38 million related to the war in Ukraine, partially offset by charges in 2022 of $89 million related to the war in Ukraine and $115 million related to costs associated with the Swedish Match AB offer. For more details, see Item 8, Note 4. War in Ukraine , Note 5. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, net, Note 18. Contingencies and Note 20 . Asset Impairment and Exit Costs. (4) For details on the impairment of goodwill recorded in the second quarter of 2023, see Item 8, Note 5. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, net . Net revenues increased by 10.7%, including the impact of the Swedish Match acquisition and currency.  Net revenues, excluding currency and acquisitions, increased by 7.6%, mainly reflecting: a favorable pricing variance, primarily driven by higher combustible tobacco pricing, and favorable volume/mix, mainly driven by higher HTU volume, partially offset by lower cigarette volume. The increase was partly offset by lower fees for certain distribution rights billed to customers in certain markets and a charge to net revenues in 2023 of $80 million following the termination of a distribution arrangement in the Middle East, both shown in "Other". The unfavorable currency in net revenues was due primarily to the Egyptian pound, Indonesian rupiah, Japanese yen and Russian ruble, partially offset by the Euro and Mexican peso. Net revenues include $12.8 billion in 2023 and $10.2 billion in 2022 related to smoke-free products. Cost of sales increased by 13.1%, including the impact of the Swedish Match acquisition and currency.  Cost of sales, excluding currency and acquisitions, increased by 8.4%, primarily related to higher manufacturing costs (primarily due to inflationary impacts, notably related to direct materials, tobacco leaf and energy, partly offset by productivity) and unfavorable volume/mix, mainly reflecting unfavorable category mix (notably due to lower cigarette volume and higher HTU volume), as well as the technical impact of third-party manufacturing in Indonesia.  This increase was partially offset by the Swedish Match AB acquisition accounting related item in 2022, the impairment charge of other intangible assets in 2022 and lower charges related to the War in Ukraine. Operating income decreased by 5.6%, including the impact of the Swedish Match acquisition and currency. Operating income, excluding currency and acquisitions, decreased by 2.5%, primarily  reflecting: the 2023 impairment charge for goodwill and other intangibles of $680 million, the impact of 2023 asset impairment and exit costs of $109 million, the termination of a distribution arrangement in the Middle East of $80 million in 2023, the South Korea indirect tax charge of $204 million in 2023 and the termination of a pledge agreement with the Foundation for a Smoke-Free World of $140 million in 2023, partly offset by the 2022 charges of $125 million related to the Swedish Match AB acquisition accounting related item, lower charges of $98 million related to the war in Ukraine compared to 2022, the 2022 costs associated with the Swedish Match AB offer of $115 million and $112 million related to an impairment charge of other intangible assets in 2022. In addition to these items, operating income was also negatively impacted by: higher marketing, administration and research costs (primarily due to inflationary impacts, notably related to wages, and lower commercial investments in the prior year period); higher manufacturing costs, as noted for cost of sales; and the impact of lower fees for certain distribution rights, as noted for net revenues, partially offset by a favorable pricing variance. 40 Amortization expense on a pre-tax basis for each of the next five years is estimated to be approximately $470 million or less, assuming no additional transactions occur that require the amortization of intangible assets. Additionally, the estimated future amortization expense could significantly increase following the reacquisition of IQOS commercialization rights in the U.S. from Altria Group, Inc. (see Item 8, Note 3, Acquisitions and the "Business Environment" section of this Item 7), the accounting for which will depend on the facts and circumstances effective May 1, 2024, when PMI will hold the full rights. We currently estimate that the incremental increase in amortization expense in 2024, as a result of the reacquisition of IQOS commercialization rights in the U.S., will be approximately $370 million on a pre-tax basis for the remaining 8 months of the year.  For full year 2025 through 2028, we currently estimate that this incremental increase will be approximately $555 million on a pre-tax basis. Like many other global companies, we have faced global inflationary pressures, primarily impacting cost of sales for our business (notably related to certain direct materials, energy, transportation and logistics) and overall inflationary impacts on marketing, administration and research costs (notably wages). For the year ended December 31, 2023, this impact on cost of sales was approximately $580 million. We expect certain inflationary elements to ease, with a moderate increase in 2024.  For further details, see "Impact of Inflation on Our Business and Mitigation Efforts" within the Business Environment section of this Item 7. Interest expense, net, of $1.1 billion increased by $473 million (80.4%), primarily due to higher interest expense in connection with the Swedish Match acquisition, partially offset by higher net interest income driven by higher interest rates. Our effective tax rate increased by 3.1 percentage points to 22.4%.  We estimate that our 2024 effective tax rate will be approximately 21% to 22%, excluding discrete tax events.  For further details, see Item 8, Note 12. Income Taxes . Net earnings attributable to PMI of $7.8 billion decreased by $1.2 billion or 13.6%. This decrease was due primarily to lower operating income, higher interest expense, net and a higher effective tax rate, as discussed above. Basic and diluted EPS of $5.02 decreased by 13.7% and 13.6%, respectively. Excluding an unfavorable currency impact of $0.63, diluted EPS decreased by 2.8%. 2022 compared with 2021 For a discussion comparing our consolidated operating results for the year ended December 31, 2022, with the year ended December 31, 2021, refer to Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation - Discussion and Analysis - Consolidated Operating Results in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, which was filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on February 10, 2023.  This section is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. Operating Results by Business Segment Business Environment Taxes, Legislation, Regulation and Other Matters Regarding the Manufacture, Marketing, Sale and Use of Tobacco Products The tobacco industry and our company face a number of challenges that may adversely affect our business, volume, results of operations, cash flows and financial position.  These challenges, which are discussed below and in “ Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results ,” include: • regulatory restrictions on our products, including restrictions on the packaging, marketing, and sale of tobacco or other nicotine-containing products or related devices that could reduce our competitiveness, eliminate our ability to communicate with adult consumers, or even ban certain of our products; • fiscal challenges, such as excessive excise tax increases and discriminatory tax structures; • illicit trade in cigarettes and other tobacco and nicotine-containing products, including counterfeit, contraband and so-called "illicit whites"; • intense competition, including from non-tax paid volume by certain local manufacturers; • pending and threatened litigation as discussed in Item 8, Note 18. Contingencies ; and • governmental investigations. 41 Regulatory Restrictions: The tobacco industry operates in a highly regulated environment.  The well-known risks of smoking have led regulators to impose significant restrictions and high excise taxes on cigarettes. Much of the regulation that shapes the business environment in which we operate is driven by the World Health Organization's (the "WHO") Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (the "FCTC"), which entered into force in 2005. The main objective of the FCTC is to establish a global agenda for tobacco regulation, with the purpose of reducing tobacco use.  To date, 182 countries and the European Union ("EU") are Parties to the FCTC.  The treaty requires Parties to have in place various tobacco control measures and recommends others. The FCTC governing body, the Conference of the Parties (“CoP”), has also adopted non-binding guidelines and policy recommendations related to certain articles of the FCTC that go beyond the text of the treaty.  In October 2018, the CoP recognized the need for more scientific assessment and improved reporting to define policy on heated tobacco products.  Similar to its previous policy recommendations on e-cigarettes, the CoP invited countries to regulate, restrict or prohibit heated tobacco products, as appropriate under their national laws. Prior to the Ninth Session of the CoP ("CoP 9") to the FCTC, which took place in November 2021, the WHO and the WHO FCTC Secretariat published two reports on novel and emerging tobacco products. Discussions on these reports have been postponed to the Tenth Session of the CoP ("CoP 10"), which was scheduled for November 2023 but postponed to February 2024. In August 2023, the WHO Study Group on Tobacco Products Regulation issued its ninth report, including recommendations on nicotine pouches, in line with previous policy recommendations on regulating flavors in tobacco and nicotine products. It is not possible to predict whether or to what extent these developments will be reflected in decisions adopted at CoP 10 following deliberations. The WHO’s reports are not binding on the WHO Member States nor on Parties to the FCTC. In December 2023, the WHO issued a white paper on e-cigarettes. While acknowledging that long-term health effects of using e-cigarettes are not fully understood, the Organization calls on countries to ban or strictly regulate these products, in order to prevent youth uptake and counter nicotine addiction. We believe that when better alternatives to cigarettes exist, the discussion should not be whether these alternatives should be made available to the more than one billion people who smoke cigarettes today, but how fast, and within what regulatory framework to maximize their adoption while minimizing unintended use. Therefore, we advocate for regulatory frameworks that are based on a continuum of risk where non-combustible products fall below combustible cigarettes.  Product regulation should include measures that encourage and accelerate switching to non-combustible products, for example, by allowing adult consumers who would not otherwise quit smoking cigarettes to receive truthful and non-misleading information about such alternatives to enable them to make informed decisions and by applying uniform product standards to enable manufacturers to demonstrate the reduction in harmful and potentially harmful constituents, as well as the absence of combustion. Regulation should also include specific rules for ingredients, labeling and consumer communication, and should ensure that the public is informed about the health risks of all combustible and non-combustible tobacco and nicotine-containing products. Importantly, regulation must include measures designed to prevent initiation by youth and non-smokers. We support mandated health warnings, minimum age laws, restrictions on advertising, and smoking restrictions in public spaces. We also support regulatory measures that help reduce illicit trade. Certain measures are discussed in more detail below and in the Reduced-Risk Products (RRPs) section. Fiscal Challenges: Excessive and disruptive excise, sales and other tax increases and discriminatory tax structures are expected to continue to have an adverse impact on our profitability, due to lower consumption and consumer down-trading to non-premium, discount, other low-price or low-taxed combustible tobacco products such as fine cut tobacco and illicit cigarettes. In addition, in certain jurisdictions, some of our combustible tobacco products are subject to tax structures that discriminate against premium-price products and manufactured cigarettes.  We believe that such tax policies undermine public health by encouraging consumers to turn to illicit trade, and ultimately undercut government revenue objectives, disrupt the competitive environment, and encourage criminal activity. Other jurisdictions have imposed, or are seeking to impose, levies or other taxes specifically on tobacco companies, such as taxes on revenues and/or profits. World Customs Organization Developments : In 2020, the World Customs Organization (the “WCO”) amended the Harmonized System ("HS") nomenclature to introduce dedicated custom codes for novel tobacco and nicotine products, including heated tobacco products, e-cigarettes and other nicotine-containing products. The amendments became effective as of January 1, 2022. The vast majority of countries where our RRPs are commercialized have adopted the amended HS, creating new dedicated customs codes for novel tobacco and nicotine products. 42 EU Tobacco Products Directive: In April 2014, the EU adopted a significantly revised TPD, which came into force in May 2016. All EU Member States have adopted laws transposing the TPD.  The TPD sets forth a comprehensive set of regulatory requirements for tobacco products, including: • health warnings covering 65% of the front and back panels of cigarette packs, with an option for Member States to further standardize tobacco packaging, including the introduction of plain packaging; • a ban on characterizing flavors in some tobacco products, with a transition period for menthol that expired in May 2020; • security features and tracking and tracing measures that became effective in May 2019; and • a framework for the regulation of novel tobacco products and e-cigarettes, including requirements for health warnings and information leaflets, a prohibition on product packaging text related to reduced risk, and the introduction of notification requirements or authorization procedures in advance of commercialization. In May 2021, the European Commission published its first report on the application of the TPD. The report identifies significant progress made due to the implementation of the TPD and where there is still room for improvement. Most notably, it finds that the EU legislation has enhanced tobacco control, which contributed to protecting the health of EU citizens by providing Member States with strong rules to address the use of tobacco products in the EU. The TPD reportedly achieved the 2% reduction target of the impact assessment with decreased smoking prevalence among youth. The report also concludes that there is scope for improvement in certain areas, such as enforcement at national level, assessment of ingredients, and a better consideration for novel and emerging products. In November 2021, the European Commission published the implementation roadmap to Europe's Beating Cancer Plan (the "Plan"). According to the Plan, a revision of the TPD is planned for 2024. EU Tobacco Excise Directive ("TED"): The EU Commission is preparing a legislative proposal for the revision of the 2011 EU Tobacco Excise Directive that may include definitions and tax treatment for novel tobacco and nicotine-containing products, including heated tobacco products, e-cigarettes and nicotine pouches. The proposal, after several delays, could still be adopted by the College of Commissioners during 2024. Depending on the adoption date by the College of Commissioners, the proposal will be discussed by the EU Council in the course of 2024-2025. Any final amendments to TED require unanimous agreement by all EU Member States, followed by transposition of TED into national legislation. A potential enforcement date for any changes to TED, after the transposition in Member States' national legislation, could be 2027. Plain Packaging and Other Packaging Restrictions: Plain packaging legislation bans the use of branding, logos and colors on packaging other than the brand name and variant that may be printed only in specified locations and in a uniform font. To date, plain packaging laws have been adopted in certain markets in all of our operating segments, including the key markets of Australia, France, Saudi Arabia and Turkey. Some countries, such as Canada, Denmark and Israel, adopted plain packaging regulations that apply to all tobacco products, including RRPs. Other countries are also considering plain packaging legislation. Some countries have adopted, or are considering adopting, packaging restrictions that could have an impact similar to plain packaging.  Examples of such restrictions include standardizing the shape and size of packages, prohibiting certain colors or the use of certain descriptive phrases on packaging, and requiring very large graphic health warnings that leave little space for branding. Restrictions and Bans on the Use of Ingredients: The WHO and others in the public health community have recommended restrictions or total bans on the use of some or all ingredients in tobacco products, including menthol.  Broad restrictions and ingredient bans would require us to reformulate our American blend tobacco products and could reduce our ability to differentiate these products in the market in the long term.  In many countries, menthol bans would eliminate the entire category of mentholated tobacco products. The EU banned cigarettes and roll-your-own tobacco products with characterizing flavors. Other tobacco products, including heated tobacco products, are currently exempted from this characterizing flavor ban. However, on November 23, 2022, the EU Commission published a delegated directive that will eliminate this exemption. All EU Member States are required to apply the delegated directive as of October 23, 2023, which bans the use of characterizing flavors in heated tobacco products, impacting a significant proportion of our RRP products currently sold in the EU. Based on high consumer switching to non-flavored products in reaction to past bans on flavors in other categories and markets, we anticipate that, while short-term volatility is possible, including in year-end trade inventories, the ban’s impact on our shipment volumes in the EU will be relatively limited in the near term. Our fundamental view remains that we do not expect a meaningful change in the structural growth of the category with consumers switching to non-flavored products partially mitigating the effect of the ban. A majority of EU Member States have transposed this directive, or are in the final stages of transposing it, withdrawing the heated tobacco product exemption from the characterizing flavor ban into national law. The remaining markets are expected to adopt this directive in 2024, and we will continue to actively monitor relevant developments in the EU market. Other countries may follow the EU’s approach toward tobacco product ingredients.  Turkey banned menthol as of May 2020.  Broader ingredient bans have been adopted by Brazil and Canada. 43 Bans on Display of Tobacco Products at Retail: In a number of our markets, including, but not limited to, Australia and Russia, governments have banned the display of tobacco products at the point of sale.  Other countries are considering similar bans. Bans and Restrictions on Advertising, Marketing, Promotions and Sponsorships: For many years, the FCTC has called for, and countries have imposed, partial or total bans on tobacco advertising, marketing, promotions and sponsorships, including bans and restrictions on advertising on radio and television, in print and on the Internet.  The FCTC's non-binding guidelines recommend that governments prohibit all forms of communication with adult smokers. Restrictions on Product Design: Some members of the public health community are calling for the further standardization of tobacco products by requiring, for example, that cigarettes have a certain minimum diameter, which would result in a ban on slim cigarettes, or requiring the use of standardized filter and cigarette paper designs. In addition, at its meeting in November 2016, the CoP adopted non-binding guidelines recommending that countries regulate product design features that increase the attractiveness of tobacco products, such as the diameter of cigarettes and the use of flavor capsules. Restrictions on Public Smoking and Use of Nicotine-Containing Products in Public: The pace and scope of restrictions on the use of our products have increased significantly in most of our markets.  Many countries around the world have adopted, or are likely to adopt, regulations that restrict or ban smoking and use of nicotine-containing products in public and/or work places, restaurants, bars and nightclubs. Some public health groups have called for, and some countries, regional governments and municipalities have adopted or proposed, bans on smoking in outdoor places, as well as bans on smoking in cars (typically, when minors are present) and private homes. Other Regulatory Issues: Some regulators are considering, or in some cases have adopted, regulatory measures designed to reduce the supply of tobacco products.  These include regulations intended to reduce the number of retailers selling tobacco products by, for example, reducing the overall number of tobacco retail licenses available or banning the sale of tobacco products within specified distances of certain public facilities.  Other regulators are also considering generation sales bans, which prohibit the sale of certain tobacco or nicotine products to people born after a certain year. On December 13, 2022 the New Zealand parliament passed a bill introducing regulatory measures restricting the sale and supply of smoked tobacco products, including reducing the number of retail outlets licensed to sell smoked tobacco products, imposing a maximum limit of nicotine content for smoked tobacco products and prohibiting the sale of smoked tobacco products to anyone born on or after January 1, 2009. These measures are limited to smoked tobacco products and do not apply to heated tobacco products and e-cigarettes.  In Mexico, a new law came into force on December 12, 2022 prohibiting imports and exports of certain nicotine and non-nicotine delivery and consumption systems, as well as the consumables used in those systems, including much of our RRP portfolio. On December 16, 2022, the Mexican Federal Government enacted an implementation regulation for the tobacco control law, which includes (i) a point of sale display ban of tobacco products; (ii) restrictions on where tobacco products can be consumed, and (iii) prohibition to communicate corporate social responsibility programs funded by the tobacco industry. On January 1, 2023, a law regulating the marketing of nicotine pouches went into effect in Slovakia. The regulatory framework  contains a minimum legal age (18 years) to purchase, a nicotine limit, and a labelling requirement. In Belgium, a Royal Decree banning nicotine pouches entered into force on July 1, 2023, with a sell-off period from retail to consumer as of October 1, 2023. On March 22, 2023, a bill amending the Tobacco Hazards Prevention and Control Act in Taiwan went into effect. It regulates heated tobacco products and bans e-cigarettes.  The amendment particularly specifies that designated tobacco products (including heated tobacco products) that are not cigarettes, cut tobacco, cigars, snuff nor chewing tobacco, must undergo a health risk assessment as part of an authorization system. On March 28, 2023, the Argentinian Ministry of Health prohibited the import, distribution, commercialization and advertisement of heated tobacco products, including related devices. The country had previously banned the use of e-cigarettes in 2011. In a limited number of markets, most notably Japan, we are dependent on governmental approvals that may limit our pricing flexibility. The EU Single-Use Plastics Directive, which will require tobacco manufacturers and importers to cover the costs of public collection systems for tobacco product filters, under Extended Producer Responsibility ("EPR") schemes, came into force on July 2, 2019. To date, some member states transposed the Directive into national legislation. By the end of 2024, most EU Member States are expected to bring into force national legislation for mandatory EPR schemes and related EPR costs for tobacco manufacturers and importers. 44 While we cannot predict the impact of this initiative on our business at this time, we currently expect further adoption of similar laws in other jurisdictions, and we are monitoring developments in this area. In some countries, including in the EU, cigarettes are subject to testing, disclosure and mandatory emissions limits for tar, nicotine, carbon monoxide and other smoke constituents. In the Netherlands, several public health organizations have requested that the Dutch enforcement body enforce the requirements for maximum tar, nicotine, and carbon monoxide ("TNCO") emissions levels for cigarettes using a test method other than the method currently set forth in the EU TPD and transposed into national legislation. This request fo llowed publication of a report by the Dutch State Institute for Public Health & Environment, which found that all cigarette brands sold in the Netherlands exceeded the maximum TNCO levels when measured under an alternative method. The Dutch enforcement body declined the request, and the applicants have challenged such decision in pending legal proceedings. The case is currently pending before the Trade and Industry Appeals Tribunal in the Netherlands A decision was expected in the fourth quarter of 2023, but the Court recently announced that it intends to submit preliminary questions to the Court of Justice of the European Union. While we cannot predict the outcome, a decision to enforce the existing TNCO ceilings using the alternative test method could impact a significant portion of the manufactured cigarettes available on the market in the Netherlands and could lead to similar actions in other EU countries. Illicit Trade: Illicit tobacco trade creates a cheap and unregulated supply of tobacco products, undermines efforts to reduce smoking prevalence, especially among youth, damages legitimate businesses and intellectual property rights, stimulates organized crime, increases corruption and reduces government tax revenue. We generally estimate that, excluding China and the U.S., illicit trade may account for as much as 14% of global cigarette consumption; this includes counterfeit, contraband and the persistent problem of “illicit whites,” which are cigarettes legally purchased in one jurisdiction for the sole purpose of being exported and illegally sold in another jurisdiction where they have no legitimate market. Currently, we estimate that illicit trade in the EU accounted for approximately 8% of total cigarette consumption in 2023. A number of jurisdictions are considering actions to prevent illicit trade. In November 2012, the FCTC adopted the Protocol to Eliminate Illicit Trade in Tobacco Products (the “Protocol”), which includes supply chain control measures,  such as licensing of manufacturers and distributors, enforcement  of these control measures in free trade zones, controls on duty free and Internet channels and the implementation of tracking and tracing technologies. To date, 68 Parties, including the EU, have ratified it.  The Protocol came into force in September 2018. Since then, implementation in national legislations has been ongoing. In November 2021, the second Meeting of the Parties to the Protocol decided, among other things, to focus on the implementation of a framework for global information sharing to combat illicit tobacco trade and enable the Parties to the Protocol to exchange  tracking and tracing information of products in a secure manner. We welcome this decision and expect that other countries will ratify the Protocol. We devote substantial resources to help prevent illicit trade in combustible tobacco products and RRPs. For example, we engage with governments, our business partners and other stakeholders to implement effective measures to combat illicit trade and, in some instances, pursue legal remedies to protect our intellectual property rights. The tracking and tracing regulations for cigarettes and roll-your-own products manufactured or destined for the EU became effective on May 20, 2019. The effective date for other tobacco-containing products, including some of our RRPs such as heated tobacco units, is May 20, 2024. While we expect that this regulation will increase our operating expenses, we do not expect this increase to be significant. In 2009, our Colombian subsidiaries entered into an Investment and Cooperation Agreement with the national and regional governments of Colombia to promote investment in, and cooperation on, anti-contraband and anti-counterfeit efforts. The agreement provides $200 million in funding over a 20-year period to address issues such as combating illegal cigarette trade and increasing the quality and quantity of locally grown tobacco. In May 2016, PMI launched PMI IMPACT, a global initiative that supports third-party projects dedicated to fighting illicit trade and related crimes such as corruption, organized criminal networks and money laundering. The centerpiece of PMI IMPACT is a council of external independent experts in the fields of law, anti-corruption and law enforcement responsible for evaluating and approving funding proposals for PMI IMPACT grants.  PMI has pledged $100 million to fund projects within PMI IMPACT over three funding rounds. The implementation of the grants assigned under the third funding round is ongoing. 45 Reduced-Risk Products (RRPs) Our Approach to RRPs: We recognize that smoking cigarettes causes serious diseases and that the best way to avoid the harm of smoking is to never start or to quit.  Nevertheless, it is predicted that by 2025, the number of smokers will remain largely unchanged from the current estimate of 1.1 billion, despite considerable efforts to discourage smoking. Cigarettes burn tobacco, which produces smoke.  As a result of the combustion process, the smoker inhales various toxic substances.  In contrast, RRPs do not burn tobacco and therefore contain significantly lower levels of harmful and potentially harmful constituents ("HPHCs") than found in cigarette smoke. Our RRPs and commercial activities for these products are designed for, and directed toward, current adult smokers and users of nicotine-containing products. We put significant effort to restrict access of our products from non-smokers and youth. For adult smokers who would otherwise continue to smoke cigarettes, we believe that RRPs, while not risk-free, offer a much better choice.  Accordingly, our key strategic priorities are to: (i) continue developing and commercializing products that present less risk of harm to adult smokers who switch to such products versus continued cigarette smoking; and (ii) educate and encourage current adult smokers who would otherwise continue to smoke cigarettes to switch to those products. We recognize that this transformation from cigarettes to RRPs will take time and that the speed of transformation will depend in part upon factors beyond our control, such as the willingness of governments, regulators and other policy groups to embrace RRPs as a desired alternative to continued cigarette smoking. As a leading international cigarette manufacturer, we will continue to accelerate this transformation by using our extensive commercial and distribution infrastructure as an effective platform for the commercialization of our RRPs and communication with adult smokers and trade partners about the substantiated benefits of switching to our RRPs. As long as a significant number of adult smokers continue to smoke cigarettes, responsible leadership of the category is critical. We aim to maintain our competitive position in the cigarette market through selective investment. While seeking to remain competitive in the cigarette market, we are judiciously reallocating resources from cigarettes to RRPs and are streamlining our cigarette portfolio. We have a range of RRPs in various stages of development, scientific assessment, and commercialization.  We are committed to conducting rigorous scientific assessments of our RRP platforms to substantiate that they reduce exposure to HPHCs and, ultimately, that these products present, are likely to present, or have the potential to present less risk of harm to adult smokers who switch to them versus continued cigarette smoking. We draw upon a team of expert scientists and engineers from a broad spectrum of scientific disciplines and our extensive learnings of adult consumer preferences to further develop and assess our RRPs. Our efforts are guided by the following key objectives: • to develop RRPs that adult smokers who would otherwise continue to smoke cigarettes find to be satisfying alternatives to smoking; • for those adult smokers, our goal is to offer RRPs with a scientifically substantiated risk-reduction profile that approaches as closely as possible the risk-reduction profile associated with smoking cessation; • to substantiate the reduction of risk for the individual adult smoker and the reduction of harm to the population as a whole, based on scientific evidence of the highest standard that is made available for scrutiny and review by external independent scientists and relevant regulatory bodies; and • to advocate for the development of science-based regulatory frameworks for the development and commercialization of RRPs, including the communication of scientifically substantiated information to enable adult smokers to make better choices. Our RRP Platforms: Our product development is based on the elimination of combustion via tobacco heating and other innovative systems, which we believe are the most promising path to providing a better consumer choice for those who would otherwise continue to smoke cigarettes. We recognize that no single product will appeal to all adult smokers. Therefore, we are developing a portfolio of products intended to appeal to a variety of distinct adult consumer preferences and achieve population harm reduction. Five PMI-developed or improved RRP platforms are in various stages of development and commercialization readiness: Platform 1 uses a precisely controlled heating device incorporating our IQOS HeatControl technology, into which a specially designed and proprietary tobacco unit is inserted and heated to generate an aerosol. We have conducted a series of clinical studies for this platform, the results of which were included in our submissions to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”). In addition to 46 the original version of Platform 1 which relies on a heating technology using a blade, a newer version of Platform 1 is now available using induction. Most of the studies referenced above were conducted with the blade version of Platform 1 and additional research was conducted with the induction technology. We believe that there is full comparability between the subsequent Platform 1 versions, and that the data from the studies conducted with the blade version of Platform 1 remain valid and applicable to the newer version of Platform 1. In 2022, we also began the initial launch of a heated tobacco product, which utilizes external resistive heating technology and that is commercialized under the BONDS brand. Platform 2 used a pressed carbon heat source which, when ignited, generated a nicotine-containing aerosol by heating tobacco. As a result of consumer testing feedback, the design of our current Platform 2 technology has been discontinued.  We are assessing alternative designs for this consumer segment. Platform 3 uses a nicotine salt and is composed of two parts: (1) a consumable that contains a highly soluble encapsulated nicotine salt powder and (2) a non-electric device that activates it. Once a consumable is inserted into the mechanical device, the nicotine salt powder is aerosolized upon inhalation.  The results of our pharmacodynamic study related to this version  indicate this product's potential as an acceptable alternative to continued cigarette smoking in terms of product satisfaction. We are working on product modifications to enable adult smokers, who are looking for better alternatives to cigarettes, to switch to a Platform 3 product. Platform 4 covers e-vapor products, which are battery-powered devices that produce an aerosol by vaporizing a tobacco-free liquid solution. We developed new e-liquids for our e-vapor products to deliver real tobacco taste satisfaction. Using patented technology, flavors and nicotine are extracted directly from the tobacco leaves and captured in a tobacco-free liquid solution, without having to add flavoring ingredients. In the first quarter of 2023, we initiated a project to fully outsource and restructure the manufacturing of e-vapor devices and consumables. As a result, PMI recorded pre-tax asset impairment and exit costs of $109 million. We intend to focus on commercializing these products in select markets, with an emphasis on profitability. We also entered into a licensing agreement with Kaival Brands International, LLC, in June 2022 to distribute an e-vapor product, known in the U.S. as the BIDI® Stick. The agreement grants PMI certain intellectual property rights relating to the premium e-vapor devices and, potentially, other newly developed devices, to permit PMI to manufacture, promote, sell, and distribute the e-vapor device and, to the extent included, other newly developed devices in international markets outside of the U.S. Platform 5 covers snus and modern oral nicotine pouches. Snus refers to dried loose tobacco, or snuff, which is consumed by sniffing the product through the nose,  moist loose tobacco which is put in the mouth between the lower or upper lip and gum, and snus pouches which contain ground tobacco, water, salt and flavors. Modern oral nicotine pouches consist of white pre-conditioned pouches containing nicotine derived from tobacco. Users place a pouch between the upper lip and gum and leave it there while the nicotine and flavor are being released. At the end of the use, the user can dispose of the pouch. Nicotine pouches are inherently smoke-free as they are consumed orally, and no combustion process occurs during use. They contain primarily nicotine, flavors, and cellulose substrate. The nicotine used in the pouches is of pharmaceutical-grade like the nicotine used in medicinal products, such as gums and inhalers, while the flavors are approved for use in food in accordance with the product quality standards for nicotine pouches developed by the Swedish Institute for Standards. In 2021, PMI acquired AG Snus Aktieselskab ("AG Snus"), as well as Fertin Pharma A/S, two companies manufacturing and/or marketing nicotine pouches. In 2022, we significantly expanded our Platform 5 products portfolio with the acquisition of Swedish Match. The acquisition also represents an expansion of our RRP presence in the U.S. market, where Swedish Match's ZYN brand is the leading nicotine pouch franchise. We aim to expand our brand portfolio and market positions with additional RRPs.  In addition, we continue to use  our expertise, technology and capabilities to explore new growth opportunities beyond our current business, including products that do not contain nicotine or tobacco. 47 The research and development expense for our smoke-free portfolio accounted for 99% of our total research and development expense for each of the three years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021.  The research and development expense for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, is set forth in Item 8, Note 15. Additional Information to the consolidated financial statements. Commercialization of RRPs: We are developing a multiplatform approach and tailoring our commercialization strategy to the characteristics of each specific market. We focus our commercialization efforts on consumer retail experience, guided consumer trials and customer care, and increasingly, digital communication programs and e-commerce.  In order to accelerate switching to our Platform 1 products, our initial market introductions typically entail one-on-one consumer engagement (in person or by digital means) and device discounts.  These initial commercialization efforts require substantial investment, which we believe will moderate over time and further benefit from the increased use of digital engagement capabilities. PMI has, and continues to, accelerate its investments in digital consumer engagement. In 2014, we introduced our Platform 1 product in pilot city launches in Nagoya, Japan, and in Milan, Italy. Since then, we have continuously expanded our commercialization activities. As of December 31, 2023,  PMI's smoke-free products were available for sale in 84 markets. Data shows that only a very small percentage of adult smokers who convert to our Platform 1 product switch back to cigarettes. We have integrated the production of our heated tobacco units into several of our existing manufacturing facilities, are progressing with our plans to build manufacturing capacity for our other RRP platforms, and continue to optimize our manufacturing infrastructure and expand our commercialization activities for new products and markets. We discuss certain risks related to the commercialization and supply of our RRP portfolio in Item 1.A. Risk Factors . We discuss product warranties in more detail in Item 8, Note 7. Product Warranty .  The significance of warranty claims depends on a number of factors, including device version mix, product failure rates, logistics and service delivery costs, and warranty policies, and may increase with the number of devices sold. On October 20, 2022, PMI announced that it had reached an agreement with Altria Group, Inc. (“Altria”) to end the companies’ commercial relationship with respect to Platform 1 in the U.S. as of April 30, 2024 (the “2022 Agreement”).  Thereafter, under the 2022 Agreement, PMI will hold the full rights to commercialize Platform 1 in the United States—the world’s largest smoke-free market.  The 2022 Agreement provides a clear path to expanding Platform 1’s international success in a market where approximately 30 million adults continue to smoke cigarettes. The U.S. government has contacted Altria and its affiliate, Philip Morris USA, Inc. (“PM USA”) in connection with the 2022 Agreement.  Altria and its subsidiary PM USA are parties to a 2006 order (“2006 Order”) in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia holding that they violated the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (“RICO”). The 2006 Order imposes restrictions on defendants from selling or transferring their cigarette brands, brand names, cigarette product formulas or cigarette businesses without the transferee submitting to the jurisdiction of the court and subjecting itself to the 2006 Order as of the date of sale or transfer.  The U.S. government has informed Altria that it believes the transaction contemplated by the 2022 Agreement (the “Transaction”) falls within the scope of this provision and that before the Transaction can be effectuated, PMI must submit to the 2006 Order. While we do not know the specific relief the U.S. government may seek from the court, we believe that there are strong arguments as to why the provision cited by the U.S. government is inapplicable to the Transaction and we also believe that there are paths available to minimize or eliminate potential impact on the timing or effectuation of the Transaction. Our commercialization efforts for the other PMI-developed RRP platforms are as follows: • In late 2022, we began commercializing our BONDS product in the Philippines and Colombia. • Since August 2020, we have launched and expanded our portfolio of vaping products (branded VEEV ) in 26 markets. • Following our acquisition of Swedish Match, we have access to a strong portfolio of Swedish Match brands in both the snus and nicotine pouch categories. Swedish Match nicotine pouches are currently available in 23 markets. • In addition to Swedish Match products, we have launched a reformulated version of the already commercialized nicotine pouches bearing the Shiro brand by our affiliate AG Snus in ten markets. 48 RRP Regulation and Taxation: RRPs contain nicotine and are not risk-free. As we describe in more detail above, we support science-based regulation and taxation of RRPs, and believe that regulation and taxation should differentiate between cigarettes and products that present, are likely to present, or have the potential to present less risk of harm to adult smokers who switch to these products versus continued smoking and should recognize a continuum of risk for tobacco and other nicotine-containing products. Regulation, as well as industry practices, should reflect the fact that youth should not consume nicotine in any form. Some governments have banned or are seeking to ban or severely restrict emerging tobacco and nicotine-containing products such as our RRPs and communication of truthful and non-misleading information about such products. These regulations might foreclose or unreasonably restrict adult consumer access even to products that might be shown to be a better consumer choice than continuing to smoke cigarettes. Since the COVID-19 pandemic, some governments have been and may continue to be temporarily unable to focus on the development of science-based regulatory frameworks for the development and commercialization of RRPs or on the enforcement or implementation of regulations that are significant to our business. We oppose blanket bans and unreasonable restrictions of products that have the potential to present less risk of harm compared to continued cigarette smoking.  By contrast, we support regulation that sets clear standards for all RRP categories and propels innovation to benefit adult smokers who would otherwise continue to smoke cigarettes. In the United States, an established regulatory framework for assessing “Modified Risk Tobacco Products” ("MRTP") and “New Tobacco Products” exists under the jurisdiction of the FDA. We submitted to the FDA a Modified Risk Tobacco Product Application (“MRTPA”) for our Platform 1 product in December 2016, and a Premarket Tobacco Product Application (“PMTA”) for our Platform 1 product in March 2017. On April 30, 2019, the FDA determined that a version of our Platform 1 product, namely, IQOS 2.4 and three related consumables, is appropriate for the protection of public health and authorized it for sale in the United States. The FDA’s decision followed its comprehensive assessment of our PMTA. On December 7, 2020, the FDA reached the same determination for the IQOS 3 device and authorized that version of our Platform 1 product for sale in the United States. On July 7, 2020, the FDA determined that the available scientific evidence demonstrates that the issuance of an exposure modification order would be appropriate for the promotion of public health and authorized the marketing of a version of our Platform 1 product, namely IQOS 2.4 and three related consumables, as an MRTP. The FDA authorized the marketing of this product in the U.S. with the following information: "AVAILABLE EVIDENCE TO DATE: • the IQOS system heats tobacco but does not burn it. • this significantly reduces the production of harmful and potentially harmful chemicals. • scientific studies have shown that switching completely from conventional cigarettes to the IQOS system significantly reduces your body’s exposure to harmful or potentially harmful chemicals." We must request and receive authorization from the FDA in order to continue marketing this product with the same modified exposure information before the order expires four years from the date of the orders. The FDA may issue two types of MRTP orders: a “risk modification” order or an “exposure modification” order. We had requested both types of orders for IQOS 2.4 and an initial selection of 3 consumables' variants.  After review, the FDA determined that the evidence did not support issuing a "risk modification" order at this time but that it did support issuing an "exposure modification" order for the product. This determination included a finding that issuance of the exposure modification order is expected to benefit the health of the population as a whole. We also received an exposure modification order for IQOS 3. We look forward to working with the FDA to provide any additional information they may require to market Platform 1 products with reduced risk claims. The FDA’s PMTA and MRTP orders do not mean that the agency “approved” our Platform 1 product.  These authorizations are subject to strict marketing, reporting and other requirements, and are not a guarantee that the product will remain authorized, particularly if there is a significant uptake in youth or non-smoker initiation.  The FDA will monitor the marketing of the product. On March 18, 2021, we submitted to the FDA a supplemental MRTPA ("sMRTPA") for IQOS 3 requesting authorization to market this version of the device as a MRTP with reduced exposure information like IQOS 2.4. In June 2021, the FDA formally accepted and filed our sMRTPA for substantive scientific review, following a period for the public to provide comments on our application. The FDA authorized our sMRTPA for IQOS 3 by issuing a Modified Risk Granted Order – Exposure Modification on March 11, 2022. 49 On January 26, 2023, the FDA authorized the marketing of two new tobacco-flavored consumables ( Marlboro Sienna HeatSticks and Marlboro Bronze HeatSticks ) and a modified version of the authorized Marlboro Amber HeatSticks . These products are line extensions and/or modified versions of the tobacco-flavored consumables for which the FDA had previously issued a marketing granted order. In its assessment, the FDA determined that the three variants of HeatSticks were comparable to the previously authorized tobacco-flavored consumables. On April 28, 2023, we submitted the Annual Report for the IQOS Tobacco Heating System ("THS") to the FDA. The report included a systematic review of the literature covering publications related to the IQOS THS between March 1, 2022 and February 28, 2023.  The report concluded that, although the scientific evidence continues to develop and evolve, the extensive data reviewed confirms that while Heated Tobacco Products (“HTPs”) are not risk-free, the use of HTPs are likely to present less risk of harm for both users and non-users against the well-proven risks of continued cigarette smoking, and therefore continues to support the "appropriate for the promotion of public health" status of IQOS THS. On July 5, 2023, we submitted a renewal application to the FDA requesting re-authorization to market the IQOS products with a modified exposure order in the U.S. This renewal request was received by the FDA 360 days prior to the expiration date of the original marketing orders, and in early September 2023, the FDA formally accepted our renewal MRTPAs for review. As our application proceeds through the review process, the FDA may request additional information or conduct subsequent inspections to verify the information we submitted. On October 20, 2023, we submitted bundled PMTAs for our IQOS ILUMA THS products together with MRTPAs requesting authorization of the exposure reduction marketing order previously granted for IQOS blade versions. We submitted these applications at the same time in order to allow the FDA to evaluate the PMTAs and MRTPAs concurrently. Some states and municipalities in the U.S. have introduced severe restrictions for the sale of certain e-cigarettes and tobacco products, including those authorized by the FDA. We believe that such restrictions on FDA-authorized products will not advance public health and will unreasonably limit adult consumer access to products that are shown to be a better alternative to continued cigarette smoking. In March 2020, the FDA issued a final rule to require new text and graphic health warnings on cigarette packs and advertisements. HTPs are technically covered by this rule, however the FDA stated that it would make product-specific decisions about health warnings when issuing or revising individual product or marketing orders. This approach would be consistent with the original marketing order granted for Heatsticks where the FDA required Philip Morris Products S.A. to remove the Surgeon General’s health warning for carbon monoxide from its packaging and advertising, and to use a nicotine addiction health warning instead. Philip Morris Products S.A. is committed to providing adult consumers with complete, accurate, and non-misleading information about possible health risks associated with its products. We shared our views with the FDA on the application of the new warnings to our HTPs. The final rule was the subject of litigation in the U.S. and was vacated nationwide by a federal court in November 2022. Philip Morris Products S.A. was not a party to this litigation. On March 8, 2023, the FDA proposed new requirements for tobacco product manufacturers regarding the manufacture, design, packing and storage of their products. The FDA stated that these proposed requirements would help protect public health by, among other things, minimizing or preventing contamination and limiting additional risks by ensuring product consistency. The FDA held a public hearing on April 12, 2023, to gather additional comments from stakeholders, including the industry, the scientific community, advocacy groups, and the public. The proposed rule was also made available for public comment for 180 days. The FDA will review all comments as part of the rulemaking process for this rule. PMI welcomes the FDA’s rule under section 906(e) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and plans to share its views with the FDA on this important foundational rule. FDA actions may influence the regulatory approach of other governments and regulatory agencies. Currently, national standards in certain countries set minimum quality and safety requirements for heat-not-burn products with technical heat-not-burn specifications and/or methods for demonstrating the absence of combustion. These standards are mandatory in Armenia, Bahrain, Egypt, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Tajikistan, Tunisia, the UAE and Uzbekistan, and voluntary in Algeria, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Morocco, the Philippines, Russia, Vietnam, the U.K. and Ukraine. In Japan, a voluntary standard sets minimum safety requirements for tobacco heating devices. For e-vapor products (e-cigarettes) national standards setting minimum quality and safety requirements have been adopted in several markets.  These standards are mandatory in Armenia, Bahrain, China, Egypt, Jordan, New Zealand, United Arab Emirates, and Saudi Arabia and Tajikistan, and voluntary in Azerbaijan, Costa Rica, France, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, the Philippines, Russia, the U.K. and Ukraine. 50 Currently, industry standards setting minimum quality and safety requirements for tobacco-free oral nicotine products (nicotine pouches) have been adopted in Pakistan, Sweden, the U.K. and Ukraine.  These standards are voluntary. We expect other governments to consider similar product standards for all novel tobacco and nicotine-containing products and encourage making them mandatory. All EU member states have transposed the EU TPD, including the provisions on novel tobacco products, such as heated tobacco units, and e-cigarettes. Most of the EU member states require a notification submitted six months before the intended placing on the market of such products, while some require pre-market authorizations for the introduction of such products. To date, we have filed a comprehensive dossier summarizing our scientific assessment of our Platform 1 product in over 20 member states. On March 23, 2023, the Greek Ministry of Health authorized a claim for IQOS with HEETS AMBER to inform Greek IQOS users about reduction in emissions of toxicants when using such product compared to cigarette smoking. The decision authorized the following claim: “The concentration of chemical substances with recognized toxicity produced when using IQOS with HEETS AMBER tobacco sticks is lower compared to conventional smoking. A reduction in the concentration of chemical substances with recognized toxicity does not mean a corresponding reduction in risk for health. The aerosol of this tobacco product contains nicotine and other hazardous chemicals. This tobacco product harms your health and is addictive. The best choice is to quit tobacco and nicotine use altogether.” With this authorization, Greece is the second country officially recognizing the reduction in level of toxicants in the IQOS aerosol compared to cigarette smoke. On September 12, 2022, Norway rejected a submission for authorization of HEETS as a novel tobacco product. Norway partially transposed the EU TPD under the European Free Trade Association agreement and introduced an authorization system for novel tobacco products following Article 19 of TPD. To date, Norway has not granted authorization of any novel tobacco product, and e-cigarettes and tobacco free nicotine pouches have not been granted access, either. On October 31, 2019, our Australian subsidiary, Philip Morris Limited (“PML”), submitted an application to the Scheduling Committee of the Therapeutic Goods Administration of Australia (“TGA”) seeking to exempt HTPs from being prohibited in Australia. In August 2020, the TGA issued its decision denying the application and stating that the application did not present compelling evidence to establish a public health benefit from greater access to nicotine in HTPs. To date, several governmental agencies have published their scientific findings that analyze the harm-reduction potential of certain RRPs versus continuing to smoke cigarettes, including: In December 2017, at the request of the U.K. Department of Health and Public Health England, the U.K. Committee on Toxicity published its assessment of the risk of heat-not-burn products relative to cigarette smoking.  This assessment included analysis of scientific data for two heat-not-burn products, one of which was our Platform 1 product.  The assessment concluded that, while still harmful to health, compared with the known risks from cigarettes, heat-not-burn products are probably less harmful. Subsequently, in February 2018, Public Health England published a report stating that the available evidence suggests that heat-not-burn products may be considerably less harmful than cigarettes but more harmful than e-cigarettes. In May 2018, the German Federal Institute for Risk Assessment (“BfR”) published a study on the Platform 1 aerosol relative to cigarette smoke using the Health Canada Intense Smoking Regimen. BfR found reductions in selected HPHCs in a range of 80-99%.  This publication indicates that significant reductions in the levels of selected toxicants are likely to reduce toxicant exposure, which BfR stated might be regarded as a discrete benefit compared to combustible cigarettes. In May 2018, the Dutch National Institute for Public Health and Environment (“RIVM”) published a factsheet on novel tobacco products that heat rather than burn tobacco, focusing on our Platform 1 product.  RIVM analyzed the aerosol generated by our Platform 1 product and concluded that the use of this product, while still harmful to health, is probably less harmful than continuing to smoke cigarettes. In June 2018, the Korean Food and Drug Administration (“KFDA”) issued a statement on products that heat rather than burn tobacco.  The KFDA tested three heat-not-burn products, one of which was our Platform 1 product. The KFDA confirmed that the levels of the nine HPHCs tested in the aerosol of these products were on average approximately 90% lower compared to those measured in the cigarette smoke of the top five cigarette brands in South Korea. However, the KFDA stated that it could not establish that the tested heat-not-burn products are less harmful than cigarettes. In October 2018, our Korean subsidiary filed a request with a local court seeking information underlying KFDA’s analysis, conclusions and public statements. In May 2020, the court ordered KFDA to produce certain records. Subsequent to that decision, and after exchanges between the parties, the case was closed. 51 In August 2018, the Science & Technology Committee of the U.K. House of Commons published a report of its inquiry into e-cigarettes and heat-not-burn products. The report concluded that e-cigarettes are significantly less harmful to health than smoking tobacco.  The report also observed that for those smokers who do not accept e-cigarettes, heat-not-burn products may offer a public health benefit despite their relative risk.  The report called for a risk-proportionate regulatory environment for both e-cigarettes and heat-not-burn products and noted that e-cigarettes should remain the least taxed, cigarettes the most taxed, with heat-not-burn products falling between the two.  The U.K. Committee on Advertising Practice announced the removal of a  prohibition of health claims in the advertising of e-cigarettes in the U.K., effective November 2018. In November 2018, the Eurasian Economic Commission (regulatory body of the Eurasian Union consisting of Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Russia) published the results of its commissioned study on novel nicotine-containing products, including our Platform 1 product. The study confirms significantly lower levels of HPHCs in the aerosol generated by this product compared to cigarette smoke. In January 2019, scientific media published the results of the study of the China National Tobacco Quality Supervision and Test Centre (“CNTQST”) comparing the aerosol generated by our Platform 1 product with cigarette smoke. The CNTQST found that the former contained fewer, and lower levels of, harmful constituents than the latter and concluded that the lower temperature of heating tobacco in our Platform 1 product contributed to the difference. The CNTQST stated that the reduction in emissions of harmful constituents cannot be interpreted as a harm/risk reduction for cigarette smokers in the same proportion. In April 2020, the Superior Health Council of Belgium (“SHC”) published results of its inquiry into heat-not-burn products. The SHC concluded that heat-not-burn products, while not safe, have a more favorable toxicity profile than cigarettes.  However, in light of the uncertainty of such products’ short and long-term impacts, the toxic effects of the dual use with cigarettes, and the existence of approved smoking cessation tools, the SHC recommended that current regulations for cigarettes should apply to heat-not-burn products. In June 2022, the SHC published new advice on e-cigarettes in which they confirm that e-cigarettes are substantially less harmful than smoking cigarettes and, therefore, a better alternative for smokers. The SHC underlines that the vast majority of the risks of tobacco smoking are not caused by nicotine, but by the harmful substances that are released by the combustion of tobacco. Based on the cited science, the SHC calls for legislation that makes a clear distinction between cigarettes and e-cigarettes by focusing on better informing smokers about the benefits of the lower-risk (but not risk-free) alternative, as well as on protecting non-smokers and young people. The foregoing scientific findings of government agencies may not be indicative of the measures that the relevant government authorities could take in regulating our products. We make our scientific findings publicly available for scrutiny and peer review through several channels, including our websites. From time to time, adult consumers, competitors, members of the scientific community, and others inquire into our scientific methodologies, challenge our scientific conclusions or request further study of certain aspects of our RRPs and their health effects. We are committed to a robust and open scientific debate and believe that such debate should be based on accurate and reliable scientific information. We seek to provide accurate and reliable scientific information about our RRPs; nonetheless, we may not be able to prevent third-party dissemination of false, misleading or unsubstantiated information about these products.  The dissemination of scientifically unsubstantiated information or studies with a strong confirmation bias by third parties may cause confusion among adult smokers and affect their decision to switch to better alternatives to continued smoking, such as our RRPs. To date, we have been largely successful in demonstrating to regulators that our heated tobacco units are not cigarettes due to the absence of combustion, and as such, they are generally taxed either as a separate category or as other tobacco products, which typically yields more favorable tax rates than cigarettes. Although we believe that this is sensible from the public health perspective, we cannot guarantee that regulators will continue this approach. There can be no assurance that we will succeed in our efforts to replace cigarettes with RRPs or that regulation will allow us to commercialize RRPs in all markets, to communicate about our RRPs, including making scientifically substantiated risk-reduction claims, or to treat RRPs differently from cigarettes. Legal Challenges to RRPs: We face various administrative and legal challenges related to certain RRP activities, including allegations concerning product classification, advertising restrictions, corporate communications, product coach activities, scientific substantiation, product liability, and unfair competition.  While we design our programs to comply with relevant regulations, we expect these or similar challenges to continue as we expand our efforts to commercialize RRPs and to communicate with the public. The outcomes of these matters may affect our RRP commercialization and public communication activities and performance in one or more markets. 52 In April 2020, affiliates of British American Tobacco p.l.c. ("BAT") filed a complaint against PMI, Philip Morris Products S.A., Altria Group, Inc., and its subsidiaries b efore the International Trade Commission ("ITC"). On September 29, 2021, the ITC issued its Final Determination ("FD"), Limited Exclusion Order ("LEO") and Cease and Desist Order ("CDO").  The ITC upheld the finding of infringement in the FD and found a subsequent violation.  The ITC issued a LEO against Philip Morris Products S.A., prohibiting the importation of infringing tobacco heating articles and components thereof, and CDOs against Altria Client Services, LLC, and certain of its affiliates, which went into effect at the end of the 60-day Presidential review period on November 28, 2021.  We appealed the patent issues.  Furthermore, lawsuits based on the same patent families were repeatedly and universally rejected in European courts and the European Patent Office.  The decision has no bearing outside the United States. On February 1, 2024 we entered into a global settlement with BAT that resolves all ongoing patent infringement litigation between the parties related to heated tobacco and vapor products. Among other matters, under the settlement PMI and BAT  agreed to request rescission of the LEO and CDO. For further details, see Item 8, Note 18. Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements. Our RRP Business Development Initiatives: In December 2013, we established a strategic framework with Altria Group, Inc. (“Altria”) setting out terms on how the parties would collaborate to develop and commercialize e-vapor products and commercialize two of our RRPs in the U.S. In late 2018, Altria announced that it will participate in the e-vapor category only through another e-vapor company in which Altria acquired a minority interest. In September 2019, Altria's subsidiary, Philip Morris USA Inc. (“PM USA”), began commercialization of a version of our Platform 1 product in the U.S. Under the agreement, PM USA was required to achieve certain milestones in order to maintain its exclusive distribution right and additional milestones in order to extend the agreement after the initial 5-year term. On October 20, 2022, PMI announced that it had reached an agreement with Altria to terminate the companies' commercial relationship covering IQOS in the U.S., as of April 30, 2024. Thereafter, PMI will hold the full rights to commercialize IQOS in the U.S. For more details, see Item 8, Note 3. Acquisitions and Note 18. Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements. In January 2020, we announced an agreement with KT&G, a leading tobacco and nicotine company in South Korea, for the commercialization of KT&G’s smoke-free products outside of South Korea on an exclusive basis. On January 30, 2023, we announced a renewal and extension of this arrangement. For more information, see Acquisitions and Other Business Arrangements below. Other Developments: In September 2017, we announced our support of the Foundation for a Smoke-Free World (the "Foundation"). The Foundation is an independent, nonprofit organization dedicated to reducing the health impacts of smoking as set out in its Articles of Incorporation and its Bylaws. In September 2020, our pledge agreement with the Foundation was amended. We contributed $45 million in 2020, $40 million in 2021, $17.5 million in 2022, and had expected to contribute up to $35 million annually from 2023 through 2029, as specified in the amended pledge agreement. In 2023, the Foundation and PMI agreed to terminate the existing pledge agreement and PMI has made final grant payments totaling $140 million, commensurate with the early termination of the pledge agreement. Governmental Investigations From time to time, we are subject to governmental investigations on a range of matters, including tax, customs, antitrust, advertising, and labor practices.  We describe certain matters pending in South Korea and Thailand in Item 8, Note 18. Contingencies . In November 2010, a World Trade Organization ("WTO") panel issued its decision in a dispute between the Philippines and Thailand, concerning a series of Thai customs and tax measures affecting cigarettes imported by Philip Morris (Thailand) Limited ("PM Thailand") into Thailand. The decision concluded that Thailand had no basis to find that PM Thailand's declared customs values and taxes paid were too low, as alleged by the Thai government and created obligations for Thailand to revise its laws, regulations, or practices affecting the customs valuation and tax treatment of future cigarette imports. Thailand agreed to fully comply with the decision, but the Philippines asserts that to date Thailand has not fully complied with the WTO panel decision and commenced challenges at the WTO Appellate Body. The WTO Appellate Body is not operational, and the appeals by Thailand are suspended indefinitely. In December 2020, the Philippines and Thailand agreed to pursue facilitator-assisted discussions aimed at progressing and resolving outstanding issues and the countries have since agreed to seek the establishment of a bilateral consultative mechanism, with the goal of reaching a comprehensive settlement of their dispute, consistent with their rights and obligations under the WTO Agreements, as well as the recommendations and rulings of the WTO Dispute Settlement Body. In July 2020, the Public Prosecutor’s office of Rome, Italy, notified our Italian subsidiary, Philip Morris Italia S.r.l. (“PM Italia”), as well as three former or current employees and a former external consultant of PM Italia in March 2020,  that it concluded a preliminary investigation against them for alleged contravention of anti-corruption laws and related disruption of trade freedom. The Public Prosecutor alleges that the individuals involved promised certain personal favors to government officials from January to July 53 of 2018 in exchange for favorable treatment for PM Italia, and that PM Italia lacked appropriate organizational controls to prevent the alleged actions by the individuals. In September 2020, the Prosecutor issued his indictment and referred the matter to the court. At the preliminary hearing held on May 11, 2021, the judge decided to refer all charges/defendants (including our affiliate) to trial. The first trial hearing took place on September 22, 2021. BAT has filed a civil claim against PM Italia claiming vicarious liability for any wrongdoing of its former or current employees and seeking EUR 50 million (approximately $55.2 million) in damages. The court admitted the claim and issued summons for PM Italia to appear in the case. The court proceeded with the examination of witnesses beginning in September 2023. PM Italia believes the charges brought against it by the Public Prosecutor are without merit and will defend them vigorously. Impact of Inflation on Our Business and Mitigation Efforts Like many other global companies, we have experienced inflationary pressures in 2022 and 2023, including: growing pressures on the cost of certain direct materials, wages, energy, transportation, and logistics as well as an increased cost of capital due to interest rate increases driven by the response to increased inflation. For the year ended December 31, 2023, the impact on cost of sales was approximately $580 million and we expect certain inflationary elements to ease, with a moderate increase in 2024. This impact has been, and we expect it to continue to be, significantly offset by the positive elements of pricing, productivities and the mitigating factors as we progress through the year.  The net result of the inflationary impacts and our efforts to mitigate these impacts were not material to PMI during these periods. Inflationary impacts driven by higher wages have resulted from merit increases that reflect local inflation as we continuously evaluate our compensation and benefit offerings to be competitive with the current market. Increased transportation costs resulted from increased shipping rates for all modes of transportation (air, ocean and inland) due to ocean and air capacity constraints.  Increases in cost of sales resulted from higher cost of direct materials due to the pass on of energy, transportation, labor and commodity price increases from suppliers as well as increases in utility costs, including gas and electricity prices, primarily in Europe resulting from the war in Ukraine. Raw materials such as tobacco leaf have longer inventory durations which resulted in insignificant inflationary impacts to our cost of sales in 2022; however tobacco leaf purchases in both 2022 and 2023 have been at higher prices due to inflationary impacts on fertilizer prices and labor costs, thus resulting in increases in the cost of inventory with corresponding impacts on our financial results in 2023. In addition, our cash flow from operations was impacted by the net working capital investment related to the procurement of tobacco leaf inventory and higher cost of direct materials.  We expect certain of these inflationary elements to ease in 2024 as noted above. We have taken several actions to mitigate these inflationary pressures.  Mitigation efforts have included (i) indexation clauses related to commodity costs and energy pricing within contracts, (ii) tactical inventory purchases, (iii) identification of new suppliers in different geographical locations for incremental sourcing, (iv) increasing tobacco leaf inventory durations to secure additional volumes at favorable prices, (v) optimizing the mix of tobacco leaf origins and suppliers, (vi) continuous evaluation of shipping routes and methods of shipment, (vii) supplier negotiations, (viii) variable contract durations for energy costs, (ix) hedging strategies, and (x) other pricing, productivity and procurement initiatives. Asset Impairment and Exit Costs We discuss asset impairment and exit costs related to restructuring activities in Item 8, Note 20. Asset Impairment and Exit Costs to our consolidated financial statements. U.S. GAAP Treatment of Highly Inflationary Economies We apply highly inflationary accounting to the results of operations of our subsidiaries in Argentina, Turkey, Lebanon and Venezuela as the cumulative inflation rate in these economies for a three-year period meets or exceeds 100%, in accordance with U.S. GAAP. As a result, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in local currencies are remeasured to the U.S. Dollar at each balance sheet date, with remeasurement gains and losses recognized in consolidated statement of earnings. This impact of currency fluctuations could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. For the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, we recognized exchange gains (losses) of $(194) million, $11 million and $9 million, respectively, resulting from remeasurement adjustments related to highly inflationary accounting. 54 Climate Change Laws and Regulations While, to date, the effect of climate-related laws and regulations on PMI has not been material to our business, results of operations or financial condition, consideration of environmental and climate-related laws and regulations is an integral aspect of PMI’s climate-related risk assessment process. To this end, we actively monitor the existing and potential impact on PMI of significant pending or existing climate change-related legislation, regulations, international accords, reporting frameworks, standards, principles, and other forms of guidance. Examples include, but are not limited to, the EU Emissions Trading System, the 2015 Paris Climate Agreement, the work of the International Financial Reporting Standards Foundation, including the International Sustainability Standards Board proposed climate standard and the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, the SEC’s proposed rules regarding climate-related disclosures, the Task Force on Nature-related Financial Disclosures, the EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive, the EU Taxonomy Regulation, the EU Deforestation Regulation, the EU Proposal for a Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive, CDP, the GHG Protocol, and carbon tax programs in Europe and Canada. Acquisitions and Other Business Arrangements We discuss our acquisitions in Item 8, Note 3. Acquisitions to our consolidated financial statements. KT&G On January 30, 2023, PMI announced a long-term collaboration with KT&G, South Korea’s leading tobacco and nicotine manufacturer, to continue to commercialize KT&G’s innovative smoke-free devices and consumables on an exclusive, worldwide basis (excluding South Korea). The agreement covers fifteen years, to January 29, 2038, with performance-review cycles and associated commitments, based on volume, to be confirmed for each three-year period, to allow flexibility for evolving market conditions. The agreement gives PMI continued exclusive access to KT&G’s smoke-free brands and product-innovation pipeline, including offerings for low- and middle-income markets, that will enhance PMI’s existing portfolio of smoke-free products. Products sold under the agreement will be subject to assessment to ensure they meet the regulatory requirements in the markets where they are launched, as well as PMI’s high standards of quality and scientific substantiation. PMI and KT&G will seek any necessary regulatory approvals that may be required on a market-by-market basis. Equity Investments We discuss our equity investments in Item 8, Note 6. Related Parties - Equity Investments and Other to our consolidated financial statements. Trade Policy PMI complies with all applicable trade restrictions and requirements, including sanctions, in the markets in which it operates. We have taken appropriate actions in response to the latest sanctions to ensure full compliance with the relevant restrictions. We are subject to various trade restrictions imposed by the U.S., the EU, Switzerland, the U.K., and other jurisdictions in which we do business (“Trade Sanctions”), including the trade and economic sanctions administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) and the U.S. Department of State.  It is our policy to comply fully with these Trade Sanctions. Pursuant to specific exemptions or licenses, or where sanctions do not apply to our business, PMI may make sales in countries subject to Trade Sanctions. We do not do business or sell products in Iran, North Korea or Syria. We sell cigarettes in Cuba under a distribution agreement. These sales are permitted by U.S. law under a License Exception for Agricultural Commodities, issued by the U.S. Department of Commerce (Bureau of Industry and Security), and specifically granted to our distributor. 55 Certain states within the U.S. have enacted legislation permitting or requiring state pension funds to divest or abstain from future investment in stocks of companies that do business with certain countries that are sanctioned by the U.S. Because we do business in certain of these countries, consistent with our policy to fully comply with Trade Sanctions and as described above, these state pension funds may have divested of our stock or may not invest in our stock. We do not believe such legislation has had a material effect on the price of our shares. On June 24, 2021, the EU introduced sanctions in relation to Belarus aimed at specific sectors of the Belarus economy, including the tobacco sector.  Subsequently, seven non-EU countries (Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein, North Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, and Albania) announced that they “aligned themselves” with the majority of the EU sanctions.  Switzerland and the U.K. have also imposed sanctions similar in scope to the EU sanctions. On August 9, 2021, the U.S. imposed blocking sanctions on certain Belarusian individuals and entities pursuant to an Executive Order, which expanded the bases for the imposition of sanctions, including, among others, by authorizing the imposition by OFAC of blocking sanctions on persons operating in the tobacco sector of the Belarus economy.  From 2021 to 2023, the U.S., the EU, the U.K., Switzerland and several other jurisdictions supplemented their respective sanctions lists by including additional Belarusian sanctions targets. Following the start of the conflict in Ukraine on February 24, 2022, the U.S., the EU, the U.K., Switzerland, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea, Japan and other countries introduced extensive economic sanctions and export controls in relation to Russia. While the introduced sanctions slightly vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, they are largely aligned. The restrictions are primarily targeted at the Russian financial, banking, oil, military, aviation and marine sectors. The U.S. has also introduced a prohibition on new investment in the Russian Federation by a U.S. person, wherever located, and authorized the imposition of blocking sanctions on anyone operating in the Russian manufacturing sector. The potential application of the latter for goods other than military goods remains unclear. Among sanctions targets are Russian political figures and military personnel, certain oligarchs and journalists, and companies operating in the above-mentioned sectors. Export to Russia of certain luxury goods, and goods and technology which might contribute to Russia’s technological enhancement was banned. Seven non-EU countries (Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein, North Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, and Albania) announced that they “aligned themselves” with the majority of the EU sanctions. The U.S., the EU, Switzerland and Japan introduced additional trade restrictions banning, among many other goods, the export of certain non-tobacco materials used to produce cigarettes and heated tobacco consumables in Russia. The EU, Switzerland and the U.K. also prohibited technical assistance and other services related to restricted goods. The EU, Switzerland and the U.K. prohibited import into their territories of certain goods, including cigarettes, among others, which might generate significant revenues for Russia if they originate in Russia or are exported from Russia. The EU and Switzerland prohibited transfer and licensing of intellectual property rights in relation to restricted goods. Additionally, the EU, the U.S., the U.K., Switzerland, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and Ukraine imposed sanctions on Mr. Igor Kesaev, a non-majority shareholder of Megapolis Distribution B.V. The U.S., the U.K., Switzerland and the EU banned the export of electric accumulators and static converters to Russia. In addition, the U.S. and the U.K. banned the export of electronic cigarettes and similar personal electric vaporizing devices to Russia. Certain countries also banned the delivery of services to Russia, such as information technology consultancy services, accounting and business and management consulting services. Russia introduced certain countermeasures aimed at reducing the effect of Western sanctions. Countermeasures include restrictions on export of certain goods from Russia, including tobacco-related production equipment, restrictions on lending to foreign borrowers, repatriation of dividends and transactions with securities and real estate involving companies from “hostile” countries (i.e., those which introduced sanctions in relation to Russia). PMI continues to monitor the development of new sanctions and ensure full compliance. 56 2023 compared with 2022 The following discussion compares operating results within each of our segments for 2023 with 2022. Europe: Net revenues increased by 5.7%.  Net revenues, excluding currency and acquisitions, increased by 3.7%, reflecting: a favorable pricing variance, mainly driven by higher combustible tobacco pricing; partially offset by unfavorable volume/mix, mainly due to lower cigarette volume, as well as unfavorable cigarette mix, partly offset by higher HTU volume. The pricing variance for the years 2023 and 2022 was negatively impacted by the supplemental tax surcharge on heated tobacco units in Germany, which went into effect in 2022. The negative impact will continue until a ruling on the legality of the surcharge is issued. It is currently being assessed in court and the obligation to pay the surcharge is temporarily suspended. PMI currently accounts for the surcharge as a reduction in net revenues and in accrued liabilities in its results. The accrued liability balance will continue to increase with the continuation of the HTU selling activities and in the case of an unfavorable ruling would negatively impact PMI’s future cash provided by operating activities. A favorable ruling would positively impact future PMI’s operating results. Operating income increased by 3.6%.  Operating income, excluding currency and acquisitions, increased by 0.4%, primarily reflecting: lower charges in 2023 related to the war in Ukraine ($98 million), a favorable comparison to 2022 related to costs associated with the Swedish Match AB offer ($53 million) and a favorable pricing variance. The increase was partly offset by the 2023 charge related to the termination of a pledge agreement with the Foundation for a Smoke-Free World ($62 million), the 2023 charges for asset impairment and exit costs ($49 million), higher marketing, administration and research costs (mainly due to inflationary impacts and lower commercial investments in the prior year period); higher manufacturing costs (primarily due to inflationary impacts); and unfavorable volume/mix, mainly due to the same factors as for net revenues. Europe - Total Market, PMI Shipment Volume and Market Share Commentaries The estimated total market for cigarettes and HTUs in the Region decreased by 1.3% to 542.3 billion units, reflecting a 3.0% decline for cigarettes, partly offset by a 15.6% increase for HTUs. The decrease in the estimated total market was predominantly due to the United Kingdom (down by 15.4%), France (down by 8.2%), Germany (down by 1.8%) and Spain (down by 2.4%), partly offset by Poland (up by 1.8%). Note: Sum may not foot due to roundings. 57 Our total cigarette and HTU shipment volume in the Region decreased by 0.6% to 214.9 billion units, mainly due to Germany (down by 6.0%), Italy (down by 2.8%; or up by 0.4% excluding the net unfavorable impact of estimated distributor inventory movements) and France (down by 7.3%), partly offset by Poland (up by 9.4%). Our estimated HTU adjusted in-market sales volume in the Region increased by 17.6%, including growth in Germany and Italy of 29.7% and 16.6%, respectively. Our HTU share of the total cigarette and HTU market in the Region increased by 1.3 points, or by 1.5 points on an adjusted basis. SSEA, CIS & MEA: Net revenues increased by 1.5%.  Net revenues, excluding currency and acquisitions, increased by 11.7%, primarily reflecting: a favorable pricing variance, mainly driven by higher combustible tobacco pricing, with HTU pricing also higher; and favorable volume/mix, primarily driven by favorable cigarette mix, as well as higher volume for HTUs, partly offset by an unfavorable cigarette volume impact. This increase was partially offset by the 2023 termination of a distribution arrangement in the Middle East of $80 million and lower fees for certain distribution rights billed to customers in certain markets, both included in "Cost/Other" in the table above. Operating income decreased by 21.1%.  Operating income, excluding currency and acquisitions, decreased by 4.2%, primarily reflecting: higher marketing, administration and research costs; higher manufacturing costs (primarily due to inflationary impacts); unfavorable volume/mix, mainly due to an unfavorable cigarette volume impact and unfavorable cigarette mix, partly offset by higher HTU volume; and the termination of a distribution arrangement, coupled with the impact of lower fees for certain distribution rights, as noted for net revenues; as well as the 2023 charge related to the termination of a pledge agreement with the Foundation for a Smoke-Free World of $44 million and the 2023 charges for asset impairment and exit costs of $34 million.  The decrease was partially offset by the favorable pricing variance and a favorable comparison to 2022 related to costs associated with the Swedish Match AB offer of $33 million. 58 SSEA, CIS & MEA - Total Market, PMI Shipment Volume and Market Share Commentaries The estimated total market for cigarettes and HTUs in the Region decreased by approximately 2% to 1,528.6 billion units, due to a decline for cigarettes. The decrease in the estimated total market was predominantly due to Egypt (down by 20.9%) and Pakistan (down by 35.1%), partly offset by Turkey (up by 16.9%). Our Regional market share increased by 0.8 points to 23.4%. Our total cigarette and HTU shipment volume in the Region increased by 1.3% to 358.2 billion units, mainly driven by Turkey (up by 23.0%), partly offset by the Philippines (down by 26.2%).  Our estimated HTU adjusted in-market sales volume increased by 8.2% including limited growth in Russia. EA, AU & PMI DF: Net revenues increased by 4.5%.  Net revenues, excluding currency and acquisitions, increased by 11.2%, reflecting: favorable volume/mix, mainly driven by higher HTU volume, partly offset by lower cigarette volume and unfavorable smoke-free product mix (for HTUs and devices); and a favorable pricing variance, driven by higher combustible tobacco and device pricing, partly offset by lower HTU (net) pricing (primarily related to Japan). Operating income increased by 2.4%.  Operating income, excluding currency and acquisitions, increased by 18.6%, mainly reflecting favorable volume/mix, primarily driven by higher HTU volume, partly offset by lower cigarette volume and unfavorable HTU mix; the favorable pricing variance; lower supply chain costs (primarily related to Japan); and a favorable comparison to 2022 related to costs associated with the Swedish Match AB offer ($24 million). The increase was partly offset by the 2023 charge related to the South Korea indirect tax ($204 million), the 2023 charge related to the termination of a pledge agreement with the Foundation for a Smoke-Free World ($27 million) and the 2023 charges for asset impairment and exit costs ($21 million). 59 EA, AU & PMI DF - Total Market, PMI Shipment Volume and Market Share Commentaries The estimated total market for cigarettes and HTUs in the Region, excluding China, increased by 1% to 319.8 billion units, reflecting growth for HTUs, partly offset by a decline for cigarettes. The increase in the estimated total market was mainly driven by International Duty Free (up by 35.7%), partly offset by Taiwan (down by 7.4%) and Australia (down by 19.4%). Our Regional market share increased by 1.3 points to 30.0%. Our total cigarette and HTU shipment volume in the Region increased by 6.7% to 101.2 billion units, mainly driven by Japan (up by 9.7%) and International Duty Free (up by 14.5%). PMI's estimated HTU adjusted in-market sales volume in the Region increased by 15.8%, including growth in Japan of 14.5%. Americas: Net revenues increased by 2.2%.  Net revenues, excluding currency and acquisitions, decreased by 2.9%, primarily reflecting: unfavorable volume/mix, mainly due to lower cigarette volume and unfavorable cigarette mix; partly offset by a favorable pricing variance, driven by higher combustible tobacco pricing. Operating income decreased by 85.8%.  Operating income, excluding currency and acquisitions, decreased by 40.6%, mainly reflecting: higher marketing, administration and research costs (including incremental investments in the U.S. in preparation for smoke-free product commercialization); and unfavorable volume/mix, mainly due to the same factors as for net revenues; partly offset by the favorable pricing variance. 60 Americas - Total Market, PMI Shipment Volume and Market Share Commentaries The estimated total market for cigarettes and HTUs in the Region, excluding the U.S., decreased by around 1% to 189.2 billion units, driven by a decline for cigarettes. The decrease in the estimated total market was mainly due to Mexico (down by 6.8%), Canada (down by 12.6%) and Argentina (down by 5.0%), partly offset by Brazil (up by 10.1%). Our Regional market share, excluding the U.S., decreased by 1.1 points to 33.7%. Our total cigarette and HTU shipment volume in the Region decreased by 3.9% to 63.9 billion units, mainly due to Mexico (down by 9.8%) and  Argentina (down by 7.9%), partly offset by Brazil (up by 12.8%). Swedish Match: As of November 11, 2022, PMI became the owner of a majority position in Swedish Match and started consolidating Swedish Match operating results. The business operations of our Swedish Match segment are evaluated separately from the geographical segments. We recorded net revenues of $2.5 billion in the Swedish Match segment, with smoke-free products accounting for over 80% of the segment's total net revenues. We recorded operating income of $824 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. Operating income included $372 million related to the amortization of acquired intangibles and $18 million of charges related to an acquisition accounting-related item recorded in 2023. 61 Swedish Match -  PMI Shipment Volume Commentary (1) Excluding U.S. chew For comparison purposes, the following commentaries assumed the inclusion of Swedish Match's 2022 shipment volume for the full year, thereby providing the comparability of Swedish Match's volume performance between periods. Volume comparisons versus Swedish Match's 2022 results reflect data sourced from its disclosures, available at www.swedishmatch.com/investors. Swedish Match's total shipment volume for oral products increased by 17.1% versus its corresponding shipments of 667.1 million cans in 2022. Nicotine pouch shipment volume increased by 55.3% compared to Swedish Match's 2022 shipment volume of 269.2 million cans, reflecting 62.0% growth for ZYN in the U.S. In Scandinavia, shipment volume for nicotine pouches grew by 6.1%. Shipment volume for snus declined by 13.8% compared to Swedish Match's 2022 shipment volume of 261.0 million cans. Cigar shipment volume declined by 12.2% compared to Swedish Match's 2022 cigar shipment volume of 1,798.0 million units, primarily due to the impact of industry pricing effects. 62 Wellness and Healthcare: The operating results of PMI’s Vectura Fertin Pharma business are reported in the Wellness and Healthcare segment. The business operations of our Wellness and Healthcare segment are evaluated separately from the geographical segments. Net revenues increased by 12.9%.  Net revenues, excluding currency and acquisitions, increased by 11.8%, notably reflecting the higher net revenues for smoking cessation products and select inhalation products. The operating loss of $870 million in 2023 was primarily due to an impairment charge for goodwill and other intangibles of $680 million in the second quarter, as well as commercial investments and higher administration costs and the amortization of acquired intangibles. The operating loss of $258 million in 2022 included a charge for impairment of other intangible assets of $112 million and the amortization of acquired intangibles. 2022 compared with 2021 As previously disclosed in the Description of Our Company section of this Item 7, in January 2023, we began managing our business in four geographical segments, down from six previously, in addition to our continuing Swedish Match and Wellness and Healthcare segments. The following discussion compares operating results within each of our segments for 2022 with 2021 under this new operating segment structure. Europe: Net revenues decreased by 2.2%.  Net revenues, excluding currency and acquisitions, increased by 9.7%, reflecting: favorable volume/mix, mainly driven by higher HTU volume and device volume, partly offset by lower cigarette volume, unfavorable HTU mix, and unfavorable cigarette mix; partially offset by an unfavorable pricing variance, mainly due to lower HTU (net) pricing and lower device pricing, partly offset by higher combustible tobacco pricing. The pricing variance for the full year 2022 was negatively impacted by the supplemental tax surcharge on heated tobacco units in Germany, which went into effect in 2022. The negative impact will continue until a ruling on the legality of the surcharge is issued. It is currently being assessed in court and the obligation to pay the surcharge is temporarily suspended. PMI currently accounts for the surcharge as a reduction in net revenues and in accrued liabilities in its results. The accrued liability balance will continue to increase with the continuation of the HTU selling activities and in the case of an unfavorable ruling would negatively impact PMI’s future cash provided by operating activities. A favorable ruling would positively impact future PMI’s operating results. Operating income decreased by 9.5%.  Operating income, excluding currency and acquisitions, increased by 6.6%, primarily reflecting favorable volume/mix, mainly driven by higher HTU volume, partly offset by lower cigarette volume, unfavorable HTU mix, 63 unfavorable cigarette mix and the unfavorable impact on profitability of higher device volume; partially offset by an unfavorable pricing variance; higher manufacturing costs; and higher marketing, administration and research costs (including the unfavorable impact of 2022 charges related to the war in Ukraine of $151 million, 2022 costs associated with the Swedish Match AB offer of $53 million and a favorable comparison versus the prior year period related to asset impairment and exit costs of $72 million). Europe - Total Market, PMI Shipment Volume and Market Share Commentaries The estimated total market for cigarettes and HTUs in the Region decreased by 0.4% to 549.6 billion units, primarily driven by: • Germany, down by 5.1%, primarily reflecting the impact of excise tax-driven price increases and higher cross-border (non-domestic) purchases due to the easing of pandemic-related measures; • the U.K., down by 13.6%, notably reflecting the impact of increased out-bound tourism compared to the pandemic-affected prior year period; and • Ukraine, down by 18.3%, due to cigarettes and HTUs; partly offset by • Italy, up by 3.4%, mainly reflecting the impact on adult smoker average daily consumption of the easing of pandemic-related measures (particularly in the first half of the year); • Poland, up by 13.0%, primarily reflecting a lower estimated prevalence of illicit trade, as well as higher border sales (largely due to the easing of pandemic-related measures); and • Romania, up by 4.2%, mainly reflecting a lower estimated prevalence of illicit trade, as well as higher border sales (largely due to the easing of pandemic-related measures). Note: Sum may not foot to total due to roundings Our Regional market share increased by 0.7 points to 39.0%, with gains in Germany, Italy and Poland, partly offset by declines in France, Spain and Ukraine. 64 Our total cigarette and HTU shipment volume increased by 1.7% to 216.1 billion units, mainly driven by: • Italy, up by 5.8%, primarily reflecting a higher market share driven by HTUs, as well as a higher total market; • Poland, up by 17.6%, mainly reflecting the higher total market and a higher market share driven by HTUs; and • Romania, up by 36.1%. Excluding the net favorable impact of estimated distributor inventory movements, total in-market sales volume increased by 27.3%, primarily reflecting a higher market share driven by HTUs, as well as the higher total market; partly offset by • France, down by 8.1%, primarily reflecting a lower total market and a lower market share; and • Ukraine, down by 30.1%, due to cigarettes and HTUs. SSEA, CIS & MEA: Net revenues increased by 6.2%.  Net revenues, excluding currency and acquisitions, increased by 10.4%, notably reflecting; a favorable pricing variance, mainly driven by combustible tobacco pricing; a favorable comparison related to the Saudi Arabia customs assessments of $246 million in 2021, shown in "Cost/Other," and a favorable volume/mix, primarily driven by higher cigarette volume and higher HTU volume. Operating income increased by 17.3%. Operating income, excluding currency and acquisitions, increased by 20.3%, notably reflecting: a favorable pricing variance; a favorable comparison related to the Saudi Arabia customs assessments in 2021 (as noted above for net revenues); and lower marketing, administration and research costs (including a favorable comparison versus the prior year period related to asset impairment and exit costs of $45 million, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of 2022 costs associated with the Swedish Match AB offer of $33 million); partly offset by higher manufacturing costs; and unfavorable volume/mix, mainly due to lower cigarette mix. 65 SSEA, CIS & MEA - Total Market, PMI Shipment Volume and Market Share Commentaries The estimated total market for cigarettes and HTUs in the Region decreased by 0.2% to 1,564.4 billion units, primarily due to: • Algeria, down by 16.1%, or by 6.8% excluding the net unfavorable impact of estimated trade inventory movements, primarily reflecting industry supply chain disruptions, as well as the impact of excise tax-driven price increases in the first quarter of 2021; • Bangladesh, down by 6.2%, primarily reflecting the impact of pandemic-related restrictions on mobility during February 2022, as well as the impact of second-quarter 2022 excise tax-driven price increases; • the Philippines, down by 4.9%, mainly reflecting the impact of first-quarter 2022 excise tax-driven price increases; • Russia, down by 3.7%, mainly due to the impact of price increases; and • Turkey, down by 6.7%, mainly reflecting a higher estimated prevalence of illicit trade, partly offset by the impact on adult smoker average daily consumption of the easing of pandemic-related measures, coupled with increased in-bound tourism; partly offset by • India, up by 16.8%, primarily reflecting a favorable comparison versus the prior year, during which pandemic-related restrictions impacted the movement of certain products, including tobacco; and • Indonesia, up by 3.6%, mainly reflecting the impact on adult smoker consumption of the easing of pandemic-related measures, which drove growth in the tax-advantaged 'below tier one' segment. Our Regional market share increased by 0.2 points to 22.6%. Our total cigarette and HTU shipment volume in the Region increased by 0.4% to 353.6 billion units, mainly driven by: • Egypt, up by 8.2%, primarily reflecting a higher market share driven by cigarettes and HTUs; • India, up by 73.9%, primarily reflecting a higher market share (driven by geographic expansion) and the higher total market; and • Indonesia, up by 4.8%, mainly reflecting the higher total market; partly offset by 66 • the Philippines, down by 6.3%, mainly reflecting the lower total market; and • Russia, down by 6.0%, due to cigarettes and HTUs. EA, AU & PMI DF: Net revenues decreased by 7.9%.  Net revenues, excluding currency and acquisitions, increased by 1.9%, reflecting: favorable volume/mix, mainly driven by higher cigarette volume, higher HTU volume and higher device volume, partly offset by unfavorable device mix and unfavorable cigarette mix; partially offset by an unfavorable pricing comparison. Operating income decreased by 14.5%.  Operating income, excluding currency and acquisitions, decreased by 1.3%, mainly reflecting: unfavorable volume/mix, primarily due to unfavorable HTU mix, unfavorable cigarette mix and unfavorable device mix, partly offset by higher cigarette volume; higher manufacturing costs; and an unfavorable pricing comparison; partially offset by lower marketing, administration and research costs (including a favorable comparison versus the prior year period related to asset impairment and exit costs of $91 million, partly offset by the unfavorable impact of 2022 costs associated with the Swedish Match AB offer of $24 million). EA, AU & PMI DF - Total Market, PMI Shipment Volume and Market Share Commentaries The estimated total market for cigarettes and HTUs in the Region, excluding China, increased by 1.3% to 316.4 billion units, mainly driven by: • International Duty Free, up by 41.0%, primarily reflecting the impact of reduced government travel restrictions and increased passenger traffic in certain geographies; partly offset by • Japan, down by 1.5%, primarily reflecting the impact of the October 2021 excise tax-driven price increases. Our Regional market share, excluding China, increased by 1.1 points to 28.7%. 67 Our total cigarette and HTU shipment volume increased by 5.3% to 94.9 billion units, mainly driven by: • PMI Duty Free, up by 61.3%, or by 43.5% excluding the net favorable impact of estimated distributor inventory movements (primarily due to cigarettes), reflecting the higher total market and a higher market share; and • Japan, up by 0.6%, or by 3.9% excluding the net unfavorable impact of estimated distributor inventory movements (primarily due to HTUs), reflecting a higher market share, partly offset by the lower total market; partly offset by • Australia, down by 5.1%, mainly reflecting a lower total market, partly offset by a higher market share; and • South Korea, down by 1.6%, primarily reflecting a lower market share. Americas: Net revenues increased by 3.3%.  Net revenues, excluding currency and acquisitions, increased by 4.1%, primarily reflecting: a favorable pricing variance, driven by combustible tobacco pricing; partly offset by unfavorable volume/mix, mainly due to unfavorable cigarette mix. Operating income decreased by 10.5%.  Operating income, excluding currency and acquisitions, decreased by 8.2%, mainly reflecting: higher marketing, administration and research costs (including the unfavorable impact of 2022 costs associated with the Swedish Match AB offer of $5 million and a favorable comparison versus the prior year period related to asset impairment and exit costs of $8 million); and higher manufacturing costs; partly offset by a favorable pricing variance. Volume/mix was slightly unfavorable, mainly due to unfavorable cigarette mix, largely offset by higher cigarette volume. 68 Americas - Total Market, PMI Shipment Volume and Market Share Commentaries The estimated total market for cigarettes and HTUs in the Region, excluding the U.S., increased by 1.8% to 191.1 billion units, primarily driven by: • Brazil, up by 7.6%, primarily reflecting a lower estimated prevalence of illicit trade; partly offset by • Canada, down by 12.8%, notably reflecting the impact of price increases and out-switching from cigarettes to e-vapor products. Our Regional market share, excluding the U.S., increased by 0.3 points to 34.8%. Our total cigarette and HTU shipment volume increased by 2.1% to 66.5 billion units, mainly driven by: • Brazil, up by 13.3%, primarily reflecting the higher total market and a higher market share; and • Mexico, up by 2.5%, mainly reflecting a higher total market and a higher market share for cigarettes; partly offset by • Argentina, down by 2.8%, primarily reflecting a lower market share due to adult smoker downtrading to ultra-low-price brands produced by local manufacturers, partly offset by a higher total market. 69 Swedish Match: Our results for the Swedish Match operating segment for the full-year include Swedish Match's results beginning on November 11, 2022, when PMI became the owner of a majority position in Swedish Match, through December 31, 2022.  The business operations of our Swedish Match segment are managed and evaluated separately from the geographical segments. We recorded net revenues of $316 million in the Swedish Match segment, with an operating loss of $22 million, primarily reflecting $125 million in an acquisition accounting-related item and $26 million related to the amortization of acquired intangibles. Wellness and Healthcare: In the third quarter of 2021, we acquired Fertin Pharma A/S, Vectura Group plc. and OtiTopic, Inc.  On March 31, 2022, we launched a new Wellness and Healthcare business, Vectura Fertin Pharma, consolidating these entities.  The operating results of this business are reported in the Wellness and Healthcare segment.  The business operations of our Wellness and Healthcare segment are managed and evaluated separately from the geographical segments. Net revenues increased over 100%.  Net revenues, excluding currency and acquisitions, decreased by 7.9%, primarily reflecting lower product supply revenues and lower royalties. The operating loss of $258 million in 2022 included $171 million of amortization and impairment of intangibles. The remaining operating loss in 2022 of $87 million mainly reflected investments in research and development, as well as expenses related to employee retention programs. 70 Financial Review 2023 compared with 2022 • Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $9.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023 decreased by $1.6 billion from the comparable 2022 period.  Excluding unfavorable currency movements of $1.3 billion, the unfavorable variance of $0.3 billion was due primarily to higher working capital requirements of $1.2 billion, partly offset by higher currency-neutral net earnings, excluding non-cash depreciation and amortization expense and goodwill and other intangible impairment charges. The unfavorable currency movements primarily related to the currency impact on net earnings and represented the fluctuations of the U.S. dollar, especially against the Argentine peso, Egyptian pound, Japanese yen, Russian ruble and Swiss franc, partly offset by the Euro. The higher working capital requirements in 2023 as compared with 2022 were primarily due to less cash provided by accrued liabilities and other current assets, net of positive cash movements in inventories, mainly reflecting the timing of excise tax-paid inventory movements primarily related to excise tax increases and timing of the corresponding excise tax payments, and more cash used in accounts payable, which primarily reflects the 2023 payment for higher IQOS ILUMA device purchases in the fourth quarter of 2022 to meet the needs of ILUMA launches. Working capital requirements were also negatively impacted by the higher cost of tobacco leaf and other direct materials due to inflationary pressures (for further details, see “ Impact of Inflation on Our Business and Mitigation Efforts ” section of this Item 7), as well as tactical stock increases for certain direct materials. These increases in the working capital requirements were partly offset by more cash provided by accounts receivable mainly reflecting the timing of sales and cash collections, as well as higher usage of our factoring arrangements to sell trade receivables.  For further detail on our factoring arrangements, see Item 8, Note 19. Sale of Accounts Receivable. For the full year 2024, we currently expect net cash provided by operating activities of $10 billion to $11 billion at prevailing exchange rates, subject to year-end working capital requirements. 71 • Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities of $3.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023, decreased by $12.1 billion from the comparable 2022 period.  This decrease in cash used was primarily due to the $14.0 billion of cash used in 2022 for the Swedish Match acquisition, net of acquired cash.  This was partially offset by the higher second installment of $1,775 million (including interest) paid to Altria Group, Inc. ($773 million) for PMI to reacquire the IQOS commercialization rights in the U.S., and the unfavorable movements of $944 million in net investment hedges, which was principally related to changes in exchange rates between the Euro and the U.S. dollar, and higher capital expenditures. For further detail on our cash payments to Altria Group, Inc. and derivatives designated as net investment hedges, see Item 8, Note 3. Acquisitions and Note 16. Financial Instruments, and the "Business Environment" section of this Item 7. Our capital expenditures were $1.3 billion in 2023 and $1.1 billion in 2022. The 2023 expenditures were primarily related to our ongoing investments in smoke-free product manufacturing capacity.  We expect total capital expenditures in 2024 of approximately $1.2 billion, partly reflecting investments in ZYN capacity in the U.S. • Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities of $5.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023, increased by $9.4 billion compared with net cash provided by financing activities of $3.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022.  The change was primarily due to net borrowings of $9.9 billion under credit facilities related to the Swedish Match acquisition in 2022, coupled with the repayment on the related bridge facility in 2023.  This was partly offset by higher long-term debt issuances in 2023, a favorable comparison resulting from transactions with noncontrolling interests related to our Turkish subsidiaries (sale of noncontrolling stakes in 2023 compared to purchase of such stakes in 2022) and lower payments in 2023 to acquire remaining issued and outstanding shares in Swedish Match.  For further details on the transactions with noncontrolling interests in our Turkish subsidiaries and our purchase of remaining Swedish Match shares, see Item 8, Note 3. Acquisitions . Dividends paid in 2023 and 2022 were $8.0 billion and $7.8 billion, respectively. 2022 compared with 2021 For a discussion comparing our net cash activities (operating, investing and financing) for the year ended December 31, 2022, with the year ended December 31, 2021, refer to Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation - Financial Review in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, which was filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on February 10, 2023.  This section is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. • Debt and Liquidity We define cash and cash equivalents as short-term, highly liquid investments, readily convertible to known amounts of cash that mature within a maximum of three months and have an insignificant risk of change in value due to interest rate or credit risk changes. As a policy, we do not hold any investments in structured or equity-linked products. Our cash and cash equivalents are predominantly held with institutions that have investment-grade long-term credit rating.  As part of our cash management strategy and in order to manage counterparty exposure, we also enter into reverse repurchase agreements. Such agreements are collateralized with government or corporate securities held by a custodial bank and, at maturity, cash is paid back to PMI, and the collateral is returned to the bank.  For 2022, the activities for such reverse repurchase agreements were not material. For 2023, we did not enter into such reverse repurchase agreements. In a number of jurisdictions, including Argentina, Egypt and Russia, we are impacted by various capital controls and/or foreign currency exchange constraints that affect the ability of our subsidiaries in these jurisdictions to settle foreign currency denominated imports of goods and services and/or to pay dividends. These factors increase foreign currency devaluation risks, which may have a negative impact on our financial condition, net assets and results of operations in these jurisdictions. We utilize long-term and short-term debt financing, including a commercial paper program that is regularly used to finance ongoing liquidity requirements, as part of our overall cash management strategy. Our ability to access the capital and credit markets as well as overall dynamics of these markets may impact borrowing costs. We expect that the combination of our long-term and short-term debt financing, the commercial paper program and the committed credit facilities, coupled with our operating cash flows, will enable us to meet our liquidity requirements. 72 In August 2021, we published a business transformation-linked financing framework (“Framework”), which integrates PMI's smoke-free transformation into its financing strategy.  The Framework outlines the guidelines that we will follow in issuing business transformation-linked financing instruments in the debt capital and loan markets, which may include public notes offerings, private placements, loans, and other relevant financing instruments. Credit Ratings – The cost and terms of our financing arrangements as well as our access to commercial paper markets may be affected by applicable credit ratings. At February 8, 2024, our credit ratings and outlook by major credit rating agencies were as follows: Revolving Credit Facilities – On January 24, 2024, we entered into an agreement to extend the term of our 364-day committed revolving credit facility in the amount of $1.7 billion from January 30, 2024, to January 28, 2025. At February 8, 2024, our committed revolving credit facilities were as follows: (1) On January 28, 2022, we entered into an agreement, effective February 10, 2022, to amend and extend the term of our $2.0 billion multi-year revolving credit facility, for an additional year covering the period February 11, 2026 to February 10, 2027, in the amount of $1.9 billion. (2) Includes business transformation-linked pricing adjustments that may result in the reduction or increase in both the interest rate and commitment fee under the credit agreement if PMI achieves, or fails to achieve, certain specified targets based on its business transformation goals. (3) On September 20, 2022, we entered into an agreement, effective September 29, 2022, to amend and extend the term of our $2.5 billion multi-year revolving credit facility, for an additional year covering the period September 30, 2026 to September 29, 2027, in the amount of $2.3 billion. On September 20, 2023, PMI entered into an agreement, effective September 29, 2023, to amend and further extend the term to September 29, 2028. At February 8, 2024, there were no borrowings under the committed revolving credit facilities, and the entire committed amounts were available for borrowing. All banks participating in our committed revolving credit facilities have an investment-grade long-term credit rating from the credit rating agencies.  We continuously monitor the credit quality of our banking group, and at this time we are not aware of any potential non-performing credit provider. These committed revolving credit facilities do not include any credit rating triggers, material adverse change clauses or any provisions that could require us to post collateral.  We expect to continue to meet our covenants. In addition to the committed revolving credit facilities discussed above, PMI maintains certain short-term credit arrangements, including uncommitted credit lines, to primarily meet working capital needs. These credit arrangements amounted to approximately $2.7 billion at December 31, 2023 and approximately $1.9 billion at December 31, 2022.  Borrowings under these arrangements and other bank loans amounted to $283 million at December 31, 2023, and $295 million at December 31, 2022. 73 Credit Facilities related to the Financing of the Swedish Match Acquisition – In connection with PMI’s all-cash recommended public offer to the shareholders of Swedish Match, on May 11, 2022, PMI entered into a credit agreement relating to a 364-day senior unsecured bridge facility. The facility provided for borrowings up to an aggregate principal amount of $17 billion, expiring 364 days after the occurrence of certain events unless extended. On June 23, 2022, PMI entered into a €5.5 billion (approximately $5.8 billion at the date of signing) senior unsecured term loan credit agreement consisting of a €3.0 billion (approximately $3.2 billion at the date of signing) tranche expiring three years after the occurrence of certain events  and a €2.5 billion (approximately $2.6 billion at the date of signing) tranche expiring on June 23, 2027. In connection with the term loan facility, the aggregate principal amount of commitments under the 364-day senior unsecured bridge facility was reduced from $17 billion to $11 billion.  On November 11, 2022, PMI acquired a controlling interest of 85.87% of the total issued shares in Swedish Match and acquired 94.81% of its outstanding shares as of December 31, 2022.  In accordance with the Swedish Companies Act, PMI subsequently exercised its right to compulsorily redeem the remaining shares for which acceptances were not received and obtained legal title to 100% of the shares in Swedish Match on February 17, 2023. PMI borrowed $8.4 billion under the bridge facility by delivering notices of borrowing for advances of $7.9 billion and $0.5 billion on November 7, 2022 and November 10, 2022, respectively. On November 21, 2022 and February 17, 2023, PMI repaid $4.0 billion and $4.4 billion, respectively, under the bridge facility. Effective February 20, 2023, the remaining outstanding commitments under the bridge facility were fully canceled and the bridge facility agreement was terminated in accordance with its terms. On November 7, 2022, PMI also delivered notices of borrowing for advances totaling €5.5 billion under the term loan facility, of which €3.0 billion will become due on November 9, 2025 and €2.5 billion will become due on June 23, 2027 unless prepaid pursuant to the terms of the credit agreement. As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, the €5.5 billion (approximately $6 billion) term loan facility was fully drawn and remained outstanding. The proceeds under the bridge facility and the term loan facility were used, directly or indirectly, to finance the acquisition, including, the payment of related fees and expenses.  For further details, see Item 8, Note 3. Acquisitions to our consolidated financial statements. Commercial Paper Program – We continue to have access to liquidity in the commercial paper market through programs in place in the U.S. and in Europe having an aggregate issuance capacity of $8.0 billion.  At December 31, 2023, we had $1.7 billion of commercial paper outstanding.  At December 31, 2022, we had $0.9 billion of commercial paper outstanding.  The average commercial paper balance outstanding during 2023 and 2022 was $3.6 billion and $3.1 billion, respectively. Sale of Accounts Receivable – To mitigate credit risk and enhance cash and liquidity management, we sell trade receivables to unaffiliated financial institutions.  For further details, see Item 8, Note 19. Sale of Accounts Receivable to our consolidated financial statements. Supply Chain Financing – We engage with unaffiliated global financial institutions that offer a voluntary supply chain financing program to some of our suppliers. For further details, see Item 8, Note 22. Supply Chain Financing to our consolidated financial statements. Debt – Our total debt was $47.9 billion at December 31, 2023, and $43.1 billion at December 31, 2022.  Our total debt is primarily fixed rate in nature. The weighted-average all-in financing cost of our total debt was 3.3% in 2023 and 2.5% in 2022.  For further details, including the fair value of our debt, see Item 8, Note 8. Indebtedness .  The amount of debt that we can issue is subject to approval by our Board of Directors. On February 10, 2023, we filed a shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, under which we may from time to time sell debt securities and/or warrants to purchase debt securities over a three-year period. 74 Our debt issuances in 2023 were as follows: (a) Interest is payable semi-annually, commencing in August 2023 (b) These notes are a further issuance of the 4.875% notes issued in February 2023 (c) These notes are a further issuance of the 4.875% notes issued in February 2023 (d) These notes are a further issuance of the 5.125% notes issued in February 2023 (e) These notes are a further issuance of the 5.375% notes issued in February 2023 (f) Interest is payable semi-annually, commencing in March 2024 On February 17, 2023, PMI applied a portion of the net proceeds of the debt issuances to prepay $4.4 billion under its bridge facility, which represented all borrowings outstanding under the bridge facility. PMI used a portion of the May 2023 net proceeds to pay the remaining cash consideration due in accordance with the terms of its agreement with Altria. For further details on PMI's agreement with Altria, see Item 8, Note 3. Acquisitions and the "Business Environment" section of this Item 7. The remaining net proceeds of the February and May 2023 offerings, as well as the September 2023 offering have been used for general corporate purposes. The weighted-average time to maturity of our long-term debt was approximately 7 years at the end of 2023 and 8 years at the end of 2022. Cash Requirements – At December 31, 2023, our material short-term and long-term cash requirements for various contractual obligations and commitments primarily consisted of the following: • principal payments related to long-term debt and the associated interest payments.  For further details, see Item 8, Note 8. Indebtedness to our consolidated financial statements; • accounts payable and accrued liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet (primarily short-term in nature); • purchase obligations for inventory and production costs to be utilized in the normal course of business such as raw materials, electronic devices, indirect materials and supplies, packaging, co-manufacturing arrangements, storage and distribution, as well as capital expenditures.  These purchase obligations are expected to be approximately $3.7 billion in 2024 and approximately $1.0 billion for years beyond; • operating lease liabilities, on an undiscounted basis, which were included in our consolidated balance sheets. For further details, see Item 8, Note 21. Leases to our consolidated financial statements; and • other long-term liabilities mainly related to transition tax.  For further details, see Item 8, Note 12. Income Taxes to our consolidated financial statements. • Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements, including special purpose entities, other than guarantees, and cash requirements discussed above. 75 Guarantees – At December 31, 2023, we have guarantees of our own performance, which are primarily related to excise taxes on the shipment of our products. There is no liability in the consolidated financial statements associated with these guarantees. These guarantees have not had, and are not expected to have, a significant impact on PMI’s liquidity.  In October 2020, we guaranteed an obligation for a then equity method investee that was subsequently divested in 2022.  For further details, see Item 8, Note 18. Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements. Swedish Match Notes Consent Solicitation and PMI Guarantee – On June 15, 2023, our wholly owned subsidiary, Swedish Match AB ("Swedish Match"), initiated a public consent solicitation of eligible holders of certain outstanding series of its notes to amend certain terms and conditions of these respective notes. The eligible noteholders provided the requisite irrevocable consent instructions voting in favor of the amendments, which were subsequently passed by way of extraordinary resolution at the noteholders’ meeting held on July 28, 2023. As a result of the passage of the extraordinary resolution, Philip Morris International Inc. entered into a guarantee, which guarantees unconditionally and irrevocably to the noteholders the punctual payment when due, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, of the principal, premium, if any, and interest on the notes. Equity and Dividends We discuss our stock awards as of December 31, 2023, in Item 8, Note 10. Stock Plans to our consolidated financial statements. On June 11, 2021, our Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program of up to $7 billion, with target spending of $5 billion to $7 billion over a three-year period.  On July 22, 2021, we began repurchasing shares under this new share repurchase program.  From July 22, 2021 through March 31, 2022, we repurchased 10.5 million shares of our common stock at a cost of approximately $1.0 billion.  During the first three months of 2022, we repurchased 2.0 million shares of our common stock at a cost of $199 million. On May 11, 2022, we announced the suspension of our three-year share repurchase program following the recommended public offer to acquire the outstanding shares of Swedish Match from its shareholders.  Prior to the suspension of the program, we made no share repurchases during the second quarter of 2022.  We did not make any share repurchases in 2023 and we do not currently anticipate restarting our share repurchase program during 2024. Dividends paid in 2023 were $8.0 billion.  During the third quarter of 2023, our Board of Directors approved a 2.4% increase in the quarterly dividend to $1.30 per common share.  As a result, the present annualized dividend rate is $5.20 per common share. Market Risk Counterparty Risk - We predominantly work with financial institutions with strong short- and long-term credit ratings as assigned by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s. These banks are also part of a defined group of relationship banks. Non-investment grade institutions are only used in certain emerging markets to the extent required by local business needs. We have a conservative approach when it comes to choosing financial counterparties and financial instruments. As such we do not invest or hold investments in any structured or equity-linked products. The majority of our cash and cash equivalents is currently invested with maturities of less than 30 days. We continuously monitor and assess the credit worthiness of all our counterparties. Derivative Financial Instruments - We operate in markets primarily outside of the United States of America, with manufacturing and sales facilities in various locations around the world.  Consequently, we use certain financial instruments to manage our foreign currency and interest rate exposure.  We use derivative financial instruments principally to reduce our exposure to market risks resulting from fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates by creating offsetting exposures.  We are not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. See Item 8, Note 16. Financial Instruments to our consolidated financial statements for further details on our derivative financial instruments and the related collateral arrangements. Value at Risk - We use a value at risk computation to estimate the potential one-day loss in the fair value of our interest-rate-sensitive and foreign currency price-sensitive derivative financial instruments, representing the majority of our derivative financial instruments exposure. This computation includes our debt and foreign currency forwards, swaps and options. Anticipated transactions, foreign currency trade payables and receivables, and net investments in foreign subsidiaries, which the foregoing instruments are intended to hedge, were excluded from the computation. 76 The computation estimates were made assuming normal market conditions, using a 95% confidence interval and a one-day holding period using a "parametric delta-gamma" approximation technique to determine the observed interrelationships between movements in interest rates and various currencies and in calculating the risk of the underlying positions in the portfolio.  These interrelationships were determined by observing interest rate and forward currency rate movements primarily over the preceding quarter for determining value at risk at December 31, 2023 and 2022, and primarily over each of the four preceding quarters for the calculation of average, high and low value at risk amounts during each year. The significant year-over-year increase in "average" and "high" impact on the value at risk computation above was primarily due to trends in foreign currency and interest rate exposures. The value at risk computation is a risk analysis tool designed to statistically estimate the maximum probable daily loss from adverse movements in interest and foreign currency rates under normal market conditions. The computation does not purport to represent actual losses in fair value or earnings to be incurred by us, nor does it consider the effect of favorable changes in market rates. We cannot predict actual future movements in such market rates and do not present these results to be indicative of future movements in market rates or to be representative of any actual impact that future changes in market rates may have on our future results of operations or financial position. Contingencies See Item 3 and Item 8, Note 18. Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of contingencies. Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements We may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in filings with the SEC, in reports to stockholders and in press releases and investor webcasts. You can identify these forward-looking statements by use of words such as "strategy," "expects," "continues," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "will," "aspires," "estimates," "intends," "projects," "aims," "goals," "targets," "forecasts" and other words of similar meaning. You can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Our RRPs constitute a relatively new product category that is less predictable than our mature cigarette business.  Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected. Investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements and whether to invest in or remain invested in our securities. In connection with the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we are identifying important factors that, individually or in the aggregate, could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by us; any such statement is qualified by 77 reference to the following cautionary statements. We elaborate on these and other risks we face throughout this document, particularly in Item 1A. Risk Factors and Business Environment of this section. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that we may make from time to time, except in the normal course of our public disclosure obligations.