********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in the description of these operations contained elsewhere in this report, set forth below are risks and uncertainties that could affect our financial results.  Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, the following risks and uncertainties apply to Pinnacle West and its subsidiaries, including APS. REGULATORY RISKS Our financial condition depends upon APS’s ability to recover costs in a timely manner from customers through regulated rates and otherwise execute its business strategy. APS is subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence its business, liquidity and results of operations and its ability to fully recover costs from utility customers in a timely manner.  The ACC regulates APS’s retail electric rates and FERC regulates rates for wholesale power sales and transmission services.  The profitability of APS is affected by the rates it may charge and the timeliness of recovering costs incurred through its rates and adjustor recovery mechanisms.  Consequently, our financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon the satisfactory resolution of any APS rate proceedings, adjustor recovery and ancillary matters which may come before the ACC and FERC, including in some cases how court challenges to these regulatory decisions are resolved.  Arizona, like certain other states, has a statute that allows the ACC to reopen prior decisions and modify otherwise final orders under certain circumstances.  Additionally, given that APS is subject to oversight by several regulatory agencies, a resolution by one may not foreclose potential actions by others for similar or related matters.  See Note 10. The ACC must also approve APS’s issuance of equity and debt securities and any significant transfer or encumbrance of APS property used to provide retail electric service and must approve or receive prior notification of certain transactions between us, APS, and our respective affiliates, including the infusion of equity into APS.  Decisions made by the ACC or FERC could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 34 APS’s ability to conduct its business operations and avoid negative operational and financial impacts depends in part upon compliance with federal, state and local laws, judicial decisions, statutes, regulations and ACC requirements, which may be revised from time to time by legislative or other action, and obtaining and maintaining certain regulatory permits, approvals, and certificates. APS must comply in good faith with all applicable statutes, regulations, rules, tariffs, and orders of agencies that regulate APS’s business, including FERC, NRC, EPA, the ACC, and state and local governmental agencies.  These agencies regulate many aspects of APS’s utility operations, including safety and performance, emissions, siting and construction of facilities, customer service and the rates that APS can charge retail and wholesale customers.  Failure to comply can subject APS to, among other things, fines and penalties.  For example, under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, FERC can impose penalties (approximately $1.2 million per day per violation) for failure to comply with mandatory electric reliability standards.  APS is also required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from these agencies.  APS believes the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for its existing operations and that APS’s business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws in all material respects. Changes in laws or regulations that govern APS, new interpretations of law and regulations, or the imposition of new or revised laws or regulations could have an adverse impact on the manner in which we operate our business and our results of operations.  In particular, new or revised laws or interpretations of existing laws or regulations may impact or call into question the ACC’s permissive regulatory authority, which may result in uncertainty as to jurisdictional authority within our state, and uncertainty as to whether ACC decisions will be binding or challenged by other agencies or bodies asserting jurisdiction.  In November 2021, the Arizona Court of Appeals issued an opinion that called into question the ACC-approved limitation of liability provision found in the APS Service Schedules.  APS sought review of the decision at the Arizona Supreme Court, which was denied; however, the Supreme Court depublished portions of the Court of Appeals’ decision.  APS is seeking revised tariff language to mitigate potential adverse impacts on APS’s future, potential litigation exposure which may result from this court decision.  We are unable to predict the impact on our business and operating results from any pending or future regulatory or legislative rulemaking. The operation of APS’s nuclear power plant exposes it to substantial regulatory oversight and potentially significant liabilities and capital expenditures. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose safety-related, security-related and other licensing requirements for the operation of nuclear generating facilities.  Events at nuclear facilities of other operators or impacting the industry generally may lead the NRC to impose additional requirements and regulations on all nuclear generating facilities, including Palo Verde.  In the event of noncompliance with its requirements, the NRC has the authority to impose a progressively increased inspection regime that could ultimately result in the shut-down of a unit or civil penalties, or both, depending upon the NRC’s assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved.  The increased costs resulting from penalties, a heightened level of scrutiny and implementation of plans to achieve compliance with NRC requirements may adversely affect APS’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. APS is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, and changes in, or liabilities under, existing or new laws or regulations may increase APS’s cost of operations or impact its business plans. APS is, or may become, subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of its present and future operations, including air emissions of conventional pollutants and GHGs, water quality, discharges of wastewater and waste streams originating from fly ash and bottom ash handling facilities, solid waste, hazardous waste, and coal combustion products, which consist of bottom ash, fly ash, and air pollution control wastes.  These laws and regulations can result in increased capital, 35 operating, and other costs, particularly with regard to enforcement efforts focused on power plant emissions obligations.  These laws and regulations generally require APS to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, and other approvals.  If there is a delay or failure to obtain any required environmental regulatory approval, or if APS fails to obtain, maintain, or comply with any such approval, operations at affected facilities could be suspended or subject to additional expenses.  In addition, failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could result in civil liability as a result of government enforcement actions or private claims or criminal penalties.  Both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations.  APS cannot predict the outcome (financial or operational) of any related litigation that may arise. Environmental Clean Up. APS has been named as a PRP for a Superfund site in Phoenix, Arizona, and it could be named a PRP in the future for other environmental clean-up at sites identified by a regulatory body.  APS cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean-up costs.  There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all PRPs. Coal Ash. In December 2014, EPA issued final regulations governing the handling and disposal of CCR, which are generated as a result of burning coal and consist of, among other things, fly ash and bottom ash.  The rule regulates CCR as a non-hazardous waste.  APS currently disposes of CCR in ash ponds and dry storage areas at Cholla and Four Corners.  To the extent the rule requires the closure or modification of these CCR units, modification or changes to the manner of closure of such units, or the construction of new CCR units beyond what we currently anticipate, APS would incur significant additional costs for CCR disposal.  In addition, the rule may also require corrective action to address releases from CCR disposal units or the presence of CCR constituents within groundwater near CCR disposal units above certain regulatory thresholds. Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards. In 2015, EPA finalized revisions to the NAAQS for ozone, which set new, more stringent standards on emissions of nitrogen oxide, a precursor to ozone, in an effort to protect human health and human welfare.  Depending on the final attainment designations for the new standards and the state implementation requirements, APS may be required to invest in new pollution control technologies and to generate emission offsets for new projects or facility expansions located in ozone nonattainment areas. APS cannot assure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to it.  Revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs incurred by APS are not fully recoverable from APS’s customers, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.  Due to current or potential future regulations or legislation coupled with trends in natural gas and coal prices, or other clean energy rules or initiatives, the economics or feasibility of continuing to own certain resources, particularly coal facilities, may deteriorate, warranting early retirement of those plants, which may result in asset impairments.  APS would seek recovery in rates for the book value of any remaining investments in the plants as well as other costs related to early retirement but cannot predict whether it would obtain such recovery. APS faces potential financial risks resulting from climate change litigation and legislative and regulatory efforts to limit GHG emissions, as well as physical and operational risks related to climate effects. Concern over climate change has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit CO 2 , which is a major byproduct of the combustion of fossil fuel, and other GHG emissions. 36 Potential Financial Risks — Greenhouse Gas Regulation, the Clean Power Plan and Potential Litigation. In 2015, EPA finalized a rule to limit CO 2 emissions from existing power plants, the Clean Power Plan, or CPP.  The implementation of this rule within the jurisdictions where APS operates would have resulted in a shift in generation from coal to more natural gas and renewable generation.  Because of a view that the federal Clean Air Act did not permit such an expansive use of administrative authority over utility generation resources, in 2019 regulations were issued that repealed the CPP and replaced it with a far narrower set of regulations focused solely on coal-fired power plant efficiency improvements.  On January 19, 2021, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit vacated the ACE regulations and remanded them back to EPA to develop new regulations governing carbon emissions from existing power plants consistent with the court’s ruling.  That decision, which endorsed an expansive view of the federal Clean Air Act consistent with the CPP, was subsequently reversed by the U.S. Supreme Court on June 30, 2022.  While the current administration has expressed its intent to develop new carbon emission regulations governing existing power plants in 2023, such action will be constrained by the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision that the CPP violated the Clean Air Act. Depending on the outcome of future carbon emission rulemakings under the Clean Air Act targeting new and existing power plants, the utility industry may become subject to more stringent and expansive regulations.  Depending on the means of compliance with federal emission performance standards, the electric utility industry may be forced to incur substantial costs necessary to achieve compliance.  In addition, we anticipate that such regulations will be challenged in federal court prior to their implementation.  Depending on the outcome of such judicial review, the utility industry may face alternative efforts from private parties seeking to establish alternative GHG emission limitations from power plants.  Alternative GHG emission limitations may arise from litigation under either federal or state common laws or citizen suit provisions of federal environmental statutes that attempt to force federal agency rulemaking or imposing direct facility emission limitations.  Such lawsuits may also seek damages from harm alleged to have resulted from power plant GHG emissions. Physical and Operational Risks. Weather extremes such as drought and high temperature variations are common occurrences in the southwest United States’ desert area, and these are risks that APS considers in the normal course of business in the engineering and construction of its electric system.  Large increases in ambient temperatures could require evaluation of certain materials used within its system and may represent a greater challenge.  Limitations on water supplies necessary to operate electric generation infrastructure could arise from prolonged drought and shortage declarations associated with key surface water resources.  As part of conducting its business, APS recognizes that the southwestern United States is particularly susceptible to the risks posed by climate change, which over time is projected to exacerbate high temperature extremes and prolong drought in the area where APS conducts its business. Co-owners of our jointly owned generation and transmission facilities may have unaligned goals and positions due to the effects of legislation, regulations, economic conditions, or changes in our industry, which could have a significant impact on our ability to continue operations of such facilities. APS owns certain of its power plants and transmission facilities jointly with other owners, with varying ownership interests in such facilities.  Changes in the nature of our industry and the economic viability of certain plants and facilities, including impacts resulting from types and availability of other resources, fuel costs, legislation, and regulation, together with timing considerations related to expiration of leases or other agreements for such facilities, could result in unaligned positions among co-owners.  Differences in the co-owners’ willingness or ability to continue their participation could lead to eventual shut down of units or facilities and uncertainty related to the resulting cost recovery of such assets.  See Note 3 for a discussion of the Navajo Plant and Cholla retirement and the related risks associated with APS’s continued recovery of its remaining investment in the plant. 37 Deregulation or restructuring of the electric industry may result in increased competition, which could have a significant adverse impact on APS’s business and its results of operations. In 1999, the ACC approved rules for the introduction of retail electric competition in Arizona.  Retail competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on APS due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins or increased costs of capital.  Although some very limited retail competition existed in APS’s service area in 1999 and 2000, there are currently no active retail competitors offering unbundled energy or other utility services to APS’s customers.  This is in large part due to a 2004 Arizona Court of Appeals decision that found critical components of the ACC’s rules to be violative of the Arizona Constitution.  The ruling also voided the operating authority of all the competitive providers previously authorized by the ACC.  On May 9, 2013, the ACC voted to re-examine the facilitation of a deregulated retail electric market in Arizona.  The ACC subsequently opened a docket for this matter and received comments from a number of interested parties on the considerations involved in establishing retail electric deregulation in the state.  One of these considerations is whether various aspects of a deregulated market, including setting utility rates on a “market” basis, would be consistent with the requirements of the Arizona Constitution.  On September 11, 2013, after receiving legal advice from the ACC staff, the ACC voted 4-1 to close the current docket and await full Arizona Constitutional authority before any further examination of this matter. In November 2018, the ACC voted to re-examine the facilitation of a deregulated retail electric market in Arizona.  On July 1 and July 2, 2019, ACC Staff issued a report and initial proposed draft rules regarding possible modifications to the ACC’s retail electric competition rules.  On February 10, 2020, two ACC Commissioners filed two sets of draft proposed retail electric competition rules.  On February 12, 2020, ACC Staff issued its second report regarding possible modifications to the ACC’s retail electric competition rules.  During a July 15, 2020, ACC Staff meeting, the ACC Commissioners discussed the possible development of a retail competition pilot program, but no action was taken.  The ACC continues to discuss matters related to retail electric competition, including the potential for additional buy-through programs or other pilot programs.  In April 2022, the Arizona Legislature passed and the Governor signed a bill that repealed the electric deregulation law that had been in place in Arizona since 1998. OPERATIONAL RISKS APS’s results of operations can be adversely affected by various factors impacting demand for electricity. Weather Conditions. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and affect the price of energy commodities.  Electric power demand is generally a seasonal business.  In Arizona, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time.  As a result, APS’s overall operating results fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis.  In addition, APS has historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder.  As a result, unusually mild weather could diminish APS’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Apart from the impact upon electricity demand, weather conditions related to prolonged high temperatures or extreme heat events present operational challenges.  In the southwestern United States, where APS conducts its business, the effects of climate change are projected to increase the overall average temperature, lead to more extreme temperature events, and exacerbate prolonged drought conditions leading to the declining availability of water resources.  Extreme heat events and rising temperatures are projected to reduce the generation capacity of thermal-power plants and decrease the efficiency of the transmission grid.  These operational risks related to rising temperatures and extreme heat events could affect APS’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 38 Higher temperatures may decrease the snowpack, which might result in lowered soil moisture and an increased threat of forest fires.  Forest fires could threaten APS’s communities and electric transmission lines and facilities.  Any damage caused as a result of forest fires could negatively impact APS’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.  In addition, the decrease in snowpack can also lead to reduced water supplies in the areas where APS relies upon non-renewable water resources to supply cooling and process water for electricity generation.  Prolonged and extreme drought conditions can also affect APS’s long-term ability to access the water resources necessary for thermal electricity generation operations.  Reductions in the availability of water for power plant cooling could negatively impact APS’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Effects of Energy Conservation Measures and Distributed Energy Resources. APS customers in energy efficiency and conservation programs and other demand-side management efforts, which in turn impact the demand for electricity.  APS must also meet certain distributed renewable energy requirements.  A portion of APS’s total renewable energy requirement must be met with an increasing percentage of distributed renewable energy resources (generally, small scale renewable technologies located on customers’ properties).  The distributed renewable energy requirement is 30% of the applicable RES requirement for 2012 and subsequent years (this requirement has been waived by the ACC for 2023).  Customer participation in distributed renewable energy programs would result in lower demand since customers would be meeting some of their own energy needs. In addition to these rules and requirements, energy efficiency technologies and distributed energy resources continue to evolve, which may have similar impacts on demand for electricity.  Reduced demand due to these energy efficiency requirements, distributed energy requirements and other emerging technologies, unless substantially offset through ratemaking mechanisms, could have a material adverse impact on APS’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Actual and Projected Customer and Sales Growth. Retail customers in APS’s service territory increased 2.1% for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared with the prior-year period.  For the three years through 2022, APS’s customer growth averaged 2.2% per year.  We currently project annual customer growth to be 1.5% to 2.5% for 2023 and the average annual growth to be in the range of 1.5% to 2.5% through 2025 based on anticipated steady population growth in Arizona during that period. Retail electricity sales in kWh, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations, increased 2.4% for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared with the prior-year period.  While steady customer growth was offset by energy savings driven by customer conservation, energy efficiency, and distributed renewable generation initiatives, the main drivers of positive sales for this period were a strong improvement in sales to commercial and industrial customers and the ramp-up of new data center customers. For the three years through 2022, annual retail electricity sales growth averaged 2.5%, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations.  Due to the expected rapid growth of several large data centers and new large manufacturing facilities, we currently project that annual retail electricity sales in kWh will increase in the range of 3.5% to 5.5% for 2023 and that average annual growth will be in the range of 4.5% to 6.5% through 2025, including the effects of customer conservation, energy efficiency, and distributed renewable generation initiatives, but excluding the effects of weather variations.  This projected sales growth range includes the impacts of several large data centers and new large manufacturing facilities, which are expected to contribute to average annual growth in the range of 3.5% to 5.5% through 2025. Actual sales growth, excluding weather-related variations, may differ from our projections as a result of numerous factors, such as economic conditions, customer growth, usage patterns and energy conservation, slower ramp-up of and/or fewer data centers and large manufacturing facilities, slower than expected commercial and industrial expansions, impacts of energy efficiency programs, and growth in DG, 39 and responses to retail price changes.  Based on past experience, a 1% variation in our annual residential and small commercial and industrial kWh sales projections under normal business conditions can result in increases or decreases in annual net income of approximately $20 million, and a 1% variation in our annual large commercial and industrial kWh sales projections under normal business conditions can result in increases or decreases in annual net income of approximately $5 million. The operation of power generation facilities and transmission systems involves risks that could result in reduced output or unscheduled outages, which could materially affect APS’s results of operations . The operation of power generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves certain risks, including the risk of breakdown or failure of equipment, fuel interruption, and performance below expected levels of output or efficiency.  Unscheduled outages, including extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other complications, occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of APS’s business.  Because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of our facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the larger transmission power grid, and the operation or failure of our facilities could adversely affect the operations of others.  Concerns over physical security of these assets could include damage to certain of our facilities due to vandalism or other deliberate acts that could lead to outages or other adverse effects.  If APS’s facilities operate below expectations, especially during its peak seasons, it may lose revenue or incur additional expenses, including increased purchased power expenses. The impact of wildfires could negatively affect APS’s results of operations. Wildfires have the potential to affect the communities that APS serves and APS’s vast network of electric transmission and distribution lines and facilities.  The potential likelihood of wildfires has increased due to many of the same weather and climate change impacts existing in Arizona as those that led to the catastrophic wildfires in California.  While we proactively take steps to mitigate wildfire risk in the areas of our electrical assets, wildfire risk is always present due to APS’s expansive service territory.  APS could be held liable for damages incurred as a result of wildfires if it was determined that they were caused by or enhanced due to APS’s negligence.  Any damage caused to our assets, loss of service to our customers, or liability imposed as a result of wildfires could negatively impact APS’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. The inability to successfully develop, acquire or operate generation resources to meet future resource needs and load forecasts in accordance with reliability requirements and other new or evolving standards and regulations could adversely impact our business. Potential changes in regulatory standards, impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, and the need to obtain various regulatory approvals create uncertainty surrounding our current and future generation portfolio.  The current regulatory standards, laws, and regulations create strategic challenges as to the appropriate generation portfolio and fuel diversification mix.  In addition, APS is required by the ACC to meet certain energy resource portfolio requirements, including those related to renewables development and energy efficiency measures, in addition to specific competitive resource procurement requirements.  The development and operation of any generation facility is also subject to many risks, including those related to financing, siting, permitting, new and evolving technology, and the construction of sufficient transmission capacity to support these facilities.  APS needs to develop or acquire new generation facilities, potentially modernize existing facilities, and/or contract for additional capacity in order to meet future resource needs and load forecasts. APS’s inability to do so could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. In expressing concerns about the environmental and climate-related impacts from continued extraction, transportation, delivery and combustion of fossil fuels, environmental advocacy groups and other third parties have in recent years undertaken greater efforts to oppose the permitting, construction, 40 and operation of fossil fuel infrastructure projects.  These efforts may increase in scope and frequency depending on a number of variables, including the future course of Federal environmental regulation and the increasing financial resources devoted to these opposition activities.  APS cannot predict the effect that any such opposition may have on our ability to develop, construct, and operate fossil fuel infrastructure projects in the future. In January 2020, APS announced its goal to provide 100% clean, carbon-free electricity by 2050 with an intermediate 2030 target of achieving a resource mix that is 65% clean energy, with 45% of the generation portfolio coming from renewable energy.  APS’s ability to successfully execute its clean energy commitment is dependent upon a number of external factors, some of which include supportive national and state energy policies, a supportive regulatory environment, sales and customer growth, the development, deployment and advancement of clean energy technologies, adequate supply chain for generation resources, and continued access to capital markets. The lack of access to sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on APS’s business and results of operations. Assured supplies of water are important for APS’s generating plants.  Water in the southwestern United States is limited, and various parties have made conflicting claims regarding the right to access and use such limited supply of water.  Both groundwater and surface water in areas important to the operation of APS’s generating plants have been and are the subject of inquiries, claims and legal proceedings.  In addition, the region in which APS’s power plants are located suffer from prolonged drought conditions, which could potentially affect the plants’ water supplies.  Climate change is also projected to exacerbate such drought conditions.  In addition, Colorado River water supplies for Arizona are subject to a Tier 2a shortage declaration, which substantially limits the quantity of water available for the state.  APS’s inability to access sufficient supplies of water, along with that of its customers, could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We are subject to cybersecurity risks and risks of unauthorized access to our systems that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. We operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure.  In the regular course of our business, we handle a range of sensitive security, customer, and business systems information.  There appears to be an increasing level of activity, sophistication, and maturity of threat actors, including from both nation state and non-nation state actors, that seek to exploit potential vulnerabilities in the electric utility industry and wish to disrupt the U.S. bulk power system, our information technology systems, generation (including our Palo Verde nuclear facility), transmission and distribution facilities, and other infrastructure facilities and systems and physical assets.  We have been and could be the target of attacks, and the aforementioned systems are critical areas of cyber protection for us. We rely extensively on IT systems, networks, and services, including internet sites, data hosting and processing facilities, and other hardware, software and technical applications and platforms.  Some of these systems are managed, hosted, provided, or used for third parties to assist in conducting our business.  Malicious actors may attack vendors to disrupt the services these vendors provide to us or to use those vendors as a cyber conduit to attack us.  As more third parties are involved in the operation of our business, there is a risk the confidentiality, integrity, privacy, or security of data held by, or accessible to, third parties may be compromised. If a significant cybersecurity event or breach were to occur, we may not be able to fulfill critical business functions and we could (i) experience property damage, disruptions to our business, theft of or unauthorized access to customer, employee, financial or system operation information or other information; (ii) experience loss of revenue or incur significant costs for repair, remediation and breach 41 notification, and increased capital and operating costs to implement increased security measures; and (iii) be subject to increased regulation, litigation and reputational damage.  If such disruptions or breaches are not detected quickly, their effects could be compounded or could delay our response or the effectiveness of our response and ability to limit our exposure to potential liability.  These types of events would also require significant management attention and resources and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. We develop and maintain systems and processes aimed at detecting and preventing information and cybersecurity incidents which require significant investment, maintenance, and ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies and regulatory requirements change.  These systems and processes may be insufficient to mitigate the possibility of cybersecurity incidents, malicious social engineering, fraudulent or other malicious activities, and human error or malfeasance in the safeguarding of our data. We are subject to laws and rules issued by multiple government agencies concerning safeguarding and maintaining the confidentiality of our security, customer information and business information.  One of these agencies, NERC, has issued comprehensive regulations and standards surrounding the security of bulk power systems, and is continually in the process of developing updated and additional requirements with which the utility industry must comply.  The NRC also has issued regulations and standards related to the protection of critical digital assets at commercial nuclear power plants.  The increasing promulgation of NERC and NRC rules and standards will increase our compliance costs and our exposure to the potential risk of violations of the standards.  Experiencing a cybersecurity incident could cause us to be non-compliant with applicable laws and regulations, such as those promulgated by NERC and the NRC, privacy laws, or contracts that require us to securely maintain confidential data, causing us to incur costs related to legal claims or proceedings and regulatory fines or penalties. The risk of these system-related events and security breaches occurring continues to intensify.  We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, threats and attempted intrusions to our information technology systems and we could experience such threats and attempted intrusions to our operational control systems.  To date, we do not believe we have experienced a material breach or disruption to our network or information systems or our service operations.  We may not be able to anticipate and prevent all cyberattacks or information security breaches, and our ongoing investments in security resources, talent, and business practices may not be effective against all threat actors. We maintain cyber insurance to provide coverage for a portion of the losses and damages that may result from a security breach of our information technology systems, but such insurance is subject to a number of exclusions and may not cover the total loss or damage caused by a breach.  Coverage for cybersecurity events continues to evolve as the industry matures.  In the future, adequate insurance may not be available at rates that we believe are reasonable, and the costs of responding to and recovering from a cyber incident may not be covered by insurance or recoverable in rates. The ownership and operation of power generation and transmission facilities on Indian lands could result in uncertainty related to continued leases, easements, and rights-of-way, which could have a significant impact on our business. Four Corners and portions of certain APS transmission lines are located on Indian lands pursuant to leases, easements or other rights-of-way that are effective for specified periods.  APS is unable to predict the final outcomes of pending and future approvals by the applicable sovereign governing bodies with respect to renewals of these leases, easements, and rights-of-way. 42 There are inherent risks in the ownership and operation of nuclear facilities, such as environmental, health, fuel supply, spent fuel disposal, regulatory and financial risks and the risk of terrorist attack that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. APS has an ownership interest in and operates on behalf of a group of participants, Palo Verde, which is the largest nuclear electric generating facility in the United States.  Palo Verde constitutes approximately 18% of APS’s owned and leased generation capacity.  Palo Verde is subject to environmental, health and financial risks, such as the ability to obtain adequate supplies of nuclear fuel; the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel; the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning; potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities; the costs of securing the facilities against possible terrorist attacks; and unscheduled outages due to equipment and other problems.  APS maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds and external insurance coverage to minimize its financial exposure to some of these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage.  APS may be required under federal law to pay up to $120.1 million (but not more than $17.9 million per year) of liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident not only at Palo Verde, but at any other nuclear power plant in the United States.  In addition, APS is subject to retrospective premium adjustments under its nuclear property insurance policies with Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (“NEIL”) for approximately $22.3 million if NEIL’s losses in any policy year exceed accumulated funds and if the retrospective premium assessment is declared by NEIL’s Board of Directors.  Although APS has no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at Palo Verde, if an incident did occur, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit and to promulgate new regulations that could require significant capital expenditures and/or increase operating costs. Changes in technology could create challenges for APS’s existing business. Alternative energy technologies that produce power or reduce power consumption or emissions are being developed and commercialized, including renewable technologies such as photovoltaic (solar) cells, customer-sited generation, energy storage (batteries) and efficiency technologies.  Advances in technology and equipment/appliance efficiency could reduce the demand for supply from conventional generation, including carbon-free nuclear generation, and increase the complexity of managing APS’s information technology and power system operations, which could adversely affect APS’s business. Customer-sited alternative energy technologies present challenges to APS’s operations due to misalignment with APS’s existing operational needs.  When these resources lack “dispatchability” and other elements of utility-side control, they are considered “unmanaged” resources.  The cumulative effect of such unmanaged resources results in added complexity for APS’s system management. APS continues to pursue and implement advanced grid technologies, including transmission and distribution system technologies and digital meters enabling two-way communications between the utility and its customers.  Many of the products and processes resulting from these and other alternative technologies, including energy storage technologies, have not yet been widely used or tested on a long-term basis, and their use on large-scale systems is not as established or mature as APS’s existing technologies and equipment.  The implementation of new and additional technologies adds complexity to our information technology and operational technology systems, which could require additional infrastructure and resources.  Widespread installation and acceptance of new technologies could also enable the entry of new market participants, such as technology companies, into the interface between APS and its customers and could have other unpredictable effects on APS’s traditional business model. Deployment of renewable energy technologies is expected to continue across the western states and result in a larger portion of the overall energy production coming from these sources.  These trends, which 43 have benefited from historical and continuing government support for certain technologies, have the potential to put downward pressure on wholesale power prices throughout the western states which could make APS’s existing generating facilities less economical and impact their operational patterns and long-term viability. We are subject to employee workforce factors that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Like many companies in the electric utility industry, our workforce is maturing, with approximately 30% of employees eligible to retire by the end of 2027.  Although we have undertaken efforts to recruit, train and develop new employees, we face increased competition for talent.  We are subject to other employee workforce factors, such as the availability and retention of qualified personnel and the need to negotiate collective bargaining agreements with union employees.  These or other employee workforce factors could negatively impact our business, financial condition, or results of operations. COVID-19 could negatively affect our business. COVID-19 is a continually developing situation around the globe that has led to economic disruption and volatility in the financial markets.  The spread of COVID-19 and efforts to contain the virus and mitigate its public health effects, could decrease demand for energy, lower economic growth, impact our employees and contractors, cause disruptions in our supply chain, increase certain costs, further increase volatility in the capital markets (and result in increases in the cost of capital or an inability to access the capital markets or draw on available credit facilities), delay the completion of capital or other construction projects and other operations and maintenance activities, delay payments or increase uncollectable accounts, impact our ability to hire or retain qualified employees, or cause other unpredictable events, each of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. FINANCIAL RISKS A downgrade of our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our current ratings are set forth in “Liquidity and Capital Resources — Credit Ratings” in Item 7.  We cannot be sure that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant.  Any downgrade or withdrawal could adversely affect the market price of Pinnacle West’s and APS’s securities, limit our access to capital and increase our borrowing costs, which would adversely impact our financial results.  We could be required to pay a higher interest rate for future financings, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease.  In addition, borrowing costs under our existing credit facilities depend on our credit ratings.  A downgrade could also require us to provide additional support in the form of letters of credit or cash or other collateral to various counterparties.  If our short-term ratings were to be lowered, it could severely limit access to the commercial paper market.  We note that the ratings from rating agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities and that each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Investment performance, changing interest rates, new rules or regulations and other economic, social, and political factors could decrease the value of our benefit plan assets, nuclear decommissioning trust funds and other special use funds or increase the valuation of our related obligations, resulting in significant additional funding requirements.  We are also subject to risks related to the provision of employee healthcare benefits and healthcare reform legislation.  Any inability to fully recover these costs in our utility rates would negatively impact our financial condition. 44 We have significant pension plan and other postretirement benefits plan obligations to our employees and retirees, and legal obligations to fund our pension trust and nuclear decommissioning trusts for Palo Verde.  We hold and invest substantial assets in these trusts that are designed to provide funds to pay for certain of these obligations as they arise.  Declines in market values of the fixed income and equity securities held in these trusts may increase our funding requirements into the related trusts.  Additionally, the valuation of liabilities related to our pension plan and other postretirement benefit plans are impacted by a discount rate, which is the interest rate used to discount future pension and other postretirement benefit obligations.  Declining interest rates decrease the discount rate, increase the valuation of the plan liabilities, and may result in increases in pension and other postretirement benefit costs, cash contributions, regulatory assets, and charges to OCI.  Changes in demographics, including increased number of retirements or changes in life expectancy and changes in other actuarial assumptions, may also result in similar impacts.  The minimum contributions required under these plans are impacted by federal legislation and related regulations.  Increasing liabilities or otherwise increasing funding requirements under these plans, resulting from adverse changes in legislation or otherwise, could result in significant cash funding obligations that could have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. We recover most of the pension and other postretirement benefit expense and all of the currently estimated nuclear decommissioning costs in our regulated rates.  Any inability to fully recover these costs in a timely manner could have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Pending or future federal or state legislative or regulatory activity or court proceedings could increase costs of providing medical insurance for our employees and retirees.  Any potential changes and resulting cost impacts cannot be determined with certainty at this time. Our cash flow depends on the performance of APS and its ability to make distributions. We derive essentially all of our revenues and earnings from our wholly-owned subsidiary, APS.  Accordingly, our cash flow and our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is dependent upon the earnings and cash flows of APS and its distributions to us.  APS is a separate and distinct legal entity and has no obligation to make distributions to us. APS’s financing agreements may restrict its ability to pay dividends, make distributions or otherwise transfer funds to us.  In addition, an ACC financing order requires APS to maintain a common equity ratio of at least 40% and does not allow APS to pay common dividends if the payment would reduce its common equity below that threshold.  The common equity ratio, as defined in the ACC order, is total shareholder equity divided by the sum of total shareholder equity and long-term debt, including current maturities of long-term debt. Pinnacle West’s ability to meet its debt service obligations could be adversely affected because its debt securities are structurally subordinated to the debt securities and other obligations of its subsidiaries. Because Pinnacle West is structured as a holding company, all existing and future debt and other liabilities of its subsidiaries will be effectively senior in right of payment to its own debt securities.  The assets and cash flows of our subsidiaries will be available, in the first instance, to service their own debt and other obligations.  Our ability to have the benefit of their cash flows, particularly in the case of any insolvency or financial distress affecting our subsidiaries, would arise only through our equity ownership interests in our subsidiaries and only after their creditors have been satisfied. The use of derivative contracts in the normal course of our business could result in financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. APS’s operations include managing market risks related to commodity prices.  APS is exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas, and coal to 45 the extent that unhedged positions exist.  We have established procedures to manage risks associated with these market fluctuations by utilizing various commodity derivatives, including exchange traded futures and over-the-counter (“OTC”) forwards, options, and swaps.  As part of our overall risk management program, we enter into derivative transactions to hedge purchases and sales of electricity and natural gas.  The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged commodity.  To the extent that commodity markets are illiquid, we may not be able to execute our risk management strategies, which could result in greater unhedged positions than we would prefer at a given time and financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”) contains measures aimed at increasing the transparency and stability of the over-the-counter derivative markets and preventing excessive speculation.  The Dodd-Frank Act could restrict, among other things, trading positions in the energy futures markets, require different collateral or settlement positions, or increase regulatory reporting over derivative positions.  Based on the provisions included in the Dodd-Frank Act and the implementation of regulations, these changes could, among other things, impact our ability to hedge commodity price and interest rate risk or increase the costs associated with our hedging programs. We are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance or nonpayment by counterparties.  We use a risk management process to assess and monitor the financial exposure of all counterparties.  Despite the fact that the majority of APS’s trading counterparties are rated as investment grade by the rating agencies, there is still a possibility that one or more of these companies could default, which could result in a material adverse impact on our earnings for a given period. GENERAL RISKS Proposals to change policy in Arizona or other states made through ballot initiatives or referenda may increase the Company’s cost of operations or impact its business plans. In Arizona and other states, a person or organization may file a ballot initiative or referendum with the Arizona Secretary of State or other applicable state agency and, if a sufficient number of verifiable signatures are presented, the initiative or referendum may be placed on the ballot for the public to vote on the matter.  Ballot initiatives and referenda may relate to any matter, including policy and regulation related to the electric industry, and may change statutes or the state constitution in ways that could impact Arizona utility customers, the Arizona economy, and the Company.  Some ballot initiatives and referenda are drafted in an unclear manner and their potential industry and economic impact can be subject to varied and conflicting interpretations.  We may oppose certain initiatives or referenda (including those that could result in negative impacts to our customers, the state, or the Company) via the electoral process, litigation, traditional legislative mechanisms, agency rulemaking or otherwise, which could result in significant costs to the Company.  The passage of certain initiatives or referenda could result in laws and regulations that impact our business plans and have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. General economic conditions could materially affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. General economic factors that are beyond the Company’s control impact the Company’s forecasts and actual performance.  These factors include interest rates; recession; inflation; stagflation; deflation; supply chain constraints; unemployment trends; sanctions, trade restrictions, military interventions and the threat or possibility of war; terrorism or other global or national unrest; and political or financial instability. In particular, during 2021 and 2022, the United States’ economy has experienced a substantial rise in the inflation rate.  There is increased uncertainty as to whether the rise in inflation will continue and for how long.  Increases in inflation raise the Company’s costs for commodities, labor, materials and services. Additionally, COVID-19 severely impacted global supply chains, resulting in equipment delays and 46 increased costs.  A failure to recover the increased costs caused by increased inflation and supply chain constraints through our rates could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: • variations in our quarterly operating results; • operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts, and investors; • changes in expectations as to future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; • developments generally affecting industries in which we operate; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures, or capital commitments; • announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; • favorable or adverse regulatory or legislative developments; • our dividend policy; • change in our management; • future sales by the Company of equity or equity-linked securities; and • general domestic and international economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company.  These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Financial market disruptions or new rules or regulations may increase our financing costs or limit our access to various financial markets, which may adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to implement our financial strategy. Pinnacle West and APS rely on access to credit markets as a significant source of liquidity and the capital markets for capital requirements not satisfied by cash flow from our operations.  We believe that we will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets.  However, certain market disruptions or revisions to rules or regulations may cause our cost of borrowing to increase generally, and/or otherwise adversely affect our ability to access these financial markets. In addition, the credit commitments of our lenders under our bank facilities may not be satisfied or continued beyond current commitment periods for a variety of reasons, including new rules and regulations, changes to the internal policies of our lenders, periods of financial distress or liquidity issues affecting our lenders or financial markets, which could materially adversely affect the adequacy of our liquidity sources and/or the cost of maintaining these sources. Changes in economic conditions, monetary policy, fiscal policy, financial regulation, rating agency treatment and/or other factors could result in higher interest rates, which would increase interest expense on our existing variable rate debt and new debt we expect to issue in the future, and thus increase the cost and/or reduce the amount of funds available to us for our current plans. 47 Additionally, an increase in our leverage, whether as a result of these factors or otherwise, could adversely affect us by: • causing a downgrade of our credit ratings; • increasing the cost of future debt financing and refinancing; • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; and • requiring us to dedicate an increased portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce funds available to us for operations, future investment in our business or other purposes. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and of Arizona law make it difficult for shareholders to change the composition of our board and may discourage takeover attempts. These provisions, which could preclude our shareholders from receiving a change of control premium, include the following: • restrictions on our ability to engage in a wide range of “business combination” transactions with an “interested shareholder” (generally, any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of our outstanding voting power, or any of our affiliates or associates who beneficially owned 10% or more of our outstanding voting power at any time during the prior three years) or any affiliate or associate of an interested shareholder, unless specific conditions are met; • anti-greenmail provisions of Arizona law and our bylaws that prohibit us from purchasing shares of our voting stock from beneficial owners of more than 5% of our outstanding shares unless specified conditions are satisfied; • the ability of the Board of Directors to increase the size of and fill vacancies on the Board of Directors, whether resulting from such increase, or from death, resignation, disqualification or otherwise; • the ability of our Board of Directors to issue additional shares of common stock and shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and, with respect to preferred stock, the other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without shareholder approval; • restrictions that limit the rights of our shareholders to call a special meeting of shareholders; and • restrictions regarding the rights of our shareholders to nominate directors or to submit proposals to be considered at shareholder meetings. While these provisions may have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of us to negotiate with our Board of Directors, they could enable the Board of Directors to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of our shareholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

For discussion of 2020 items and year-over-year comparisons between 2021 and 2020 that are not included in this 2022 10-K and were not impacted by our segment realignment, refer to "Item 7. – Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" found in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, that was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 17, 2022. Executive Overview General Humana Inc., headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is a leading health and well-being company committed to helping our millions of medical and specialty members achieve their best health. Our successful history in care delivery and health plan administration is helping us create a new kind of integrated care with the power to improve health and well‐being and lower costs. Our efforts are leading to a better quality of life for people with Medicare, families, individuals, military service personnel, and communities at large. To accomplish that, we support physicians and other health care professionals as they work to deliver the right care in the right place for their patients, our members. Our range of clinical capabilities, resources and tools, such as in‐home care, behavioral health, pharmacy services, data analytics and wellness solutions, combine to produce a simplified experience that makes health care easier to navigate and more effective. The health benefits industry relies on two key statistics to measure performance. The benefit ratio, which is computed by taking total benefits expense as a percentage of premiums revenue, represents a statistic used to measure underwriting profitability. The operating cost ratio, which is computed by taking total operating costs, excluding depreciation and amortization, as a percentage of total revenue less investment income, represents a statistic used to measure administrative spending efficiency. Sale of Hospice and Personal Care Divisions On August 11, 2022, we completed the sale of a 60% i nterest in Humana’s Kindred at Home Hospice subsidiary, or KAH Hospice, to Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, or CD&R, for cash proceeds of approximately $2.7 billion, net of cash disposed, including debt repayments from KAH Hospice to Humana of $1.9 billion. In connection with the sale we recognized a pre-tax gain, net of transaction costs, of $237 million which is reported as a gain on sale of KAH Hospice in the accompanying consolidated statements of income for the year ended December 31, 2022. Kindred at Home Acquisition On August 17, 2021, we acquired the remaining 60% interest in Kindred at Home, or KAH, the nation’s largest home health and hospice provider, from TPG Capital and Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe, two private equity funds, for an enterprise value of $8.2 billion, which includes our equity value of $2.4 billion associated with our 40% minority ownership interest. The remeasurement to fair value of our previously held 40% equity method investment with a carrying value of approximately $1.3 billion, resulted in a $1.1 billion gain recognized in "Other (income) expense, net". KAH has locations in 40 states, providing extensive geographic coverage with approximately 65% overlap with our individual Medicare Advantage membership. We paid the approximate $5.8 billion transaction price (net of our existing equity stake) through a combination of debt financing, the assumption of existing KAH indebtedness and parent company cash. COVID-19 The emergence and spread of the novel coronavirus, or COVID-19, beginning in the first quarter of 2020 has impacted our business. During periods of increased incidences of COVID-19, a reduction in non-COVID-19 hospital admissions for non-emergent and elective medical care have resulted in lower overall healthcare system utilization. At the same time, COVID-19 treatment and testing costs increased utilization. During 2022, we experienced lower overall utilization of the healthcare system than anticipated, as the reduction in COVID-19 utilization following the increased incidence associated with the Omicron variant outpaced the increase in non-COVID-19 utilization. The 41 significant disruption in utilization during 2020 also impacted our ability to implement clinical initiatives to manage health care costs and chronic conditions of our members, and appropriately document their risk profiles, and, as such, significantly affected our 2021 revenue under the risk adjustment payment model for Medicare Advantage plans. Finally, changes in utilization patterns and actions taken in 2020 and 2021 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, including the suspension of certain financial recovery programs for a period of time and shifting the timing of claim payments and provider capitation surplus payments, impacted our claim reserve development and operating cash flows for 2020 and 2021. Value Creation Initiatives During 2022, in order to create capacity to fund growth and investment in our Medicare Advantage business and further expansion of our healthcare services capabilities in 2023, we committed to drive additional value for the enterprise through cost saving, productivity initiatives, and value acceleration from previous investments. As a result of these initiatives, we recorded charges of $473 million included within operating costs in the consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2022. These charges primarily relate to $248 million in asset impairments, including software and abandonment, and $116 million of severance charges in connection with workforce optimization. The remainder of the charges primarily relate to external consulting fees. These charges were recorded at the corporate level and not allocated to the segments. Business Segments During December 2022, we realigned our businesses into two distinct segments: Insurance and CenterWell. The Insurance segment includes the businesses that were previously included in the Retail and Group and Specialty segments, as well as the Pharmacy Benefit Manager, or PBM, business which was previously included in the Healthcare Services segment. The CenterWell segment (formerly Healthcare Services) represents our payor-agnostic healthcare services offerings, including pharmacy dispensing services, provider services, and home services. In addition to the new segment classifications being utilized to assess performance and allocate resources, we believe this simpler structure will create greater collaboration across the Insurance and CenterWell businesses and will accelerate work that is underway to centralize and integrate operations within the organization. Prior period segment financial information has been recast to conform to the 2022 presentation. For a recast of prior period segment financial information, refer to Note 18 to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K. Our  two reportable segments, Insurance and CenterWell, are based on a combination of the type of health plan customer and adjacent businesses centered on well-being solutions for our health plans and other customers, as described below. These segment groupings are consistent with information used by our Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Operating Decision Maker, to assess performance and allocate resources. For segment financial information, refer to Note 18 to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K. The Insurance segment consists of Medicare benefits, marketed to individuals or directly via group Medicare accounts, as well as our contract with CMS to administer the Limited Income Newly Eligible Transition, or LI-NET, prescription drug plan program and contracts with various states to provide Medicaid, dual eligible demonstration, and Long-Term Support Services benefits, which we refer to collectively as our state-based contracts. This segment also includes products consisting of employer group commercial fully-insured medical and specialty health insurance benefits marketed to individuals and employer groups, including dental, vision, and other supplemental health benefits, as well as administrative services only, or ASO. In addition, our Insurance segment includes our military services business, primarily our T-2017 East Region contract, as well as the operations of our PBM business. The CenterWell segment includes our pharmacy, provider services, and home solutions operations. The segment also includes our strategic partnerships with WCAS to develop and operate senior-focused, payor-agnostic, primary care centers, as well as our minority ownership interest in hospice operations. Services offered by this segment are designed to enhance the overall healthcare experience. These services may lead to lower utilization associated with improved member health and/or lower drug costs. 42 The results of each segment are measured by income before income taxes and equity in net (losses) earnings from equity method investments, or segment earnings. Transactions between reportable segments primarily consist of sales of services rendered by our CenterWell segment, primarily pharmacy, provider, and home services, to our Insurance segment customers. Intersegment sales and expenses are recorded at fair value and eliminated in consolidation. Members served by our segments often use the same provider networks, enabling us in some instances to obtain more favorable contract terms with providers. Our segments also share indirect costs and assets. As a result, the profitability of each segment is interdependent. We allocate most operating expenses to our segments. Assets and certain corporate income and expenses are not allocated to the segments, including the portion of investment income not supporting segment operations, interest expense on corporate debt, and certain other corporate expenses. These items are managed at a corporate level. These corporate amounts are reported separately from our reportable segments and are included with intersegment eliminations. Seasonality COVID-19 disrupted the pattern of our quarterly earnings and operating cash flows largely due to the temporary deferral of non-essential care which resulted in reductions in non-COVID-19 hospital admissions and lower overall healthcare system utilization during higher levels of COVID-19 hospital admissions. At the same time, during periods of increased incidences of COVID-19, COVID-19 treatment and testing costs increase. Similar impacts and seasonal disruptions from either higher or lower utilization are expected to persist as we respond to and recover from the COVID-19 global health crisis. One of the product offerings of our Insurance segment is Medicare stand-alone prescription drug plans, or PDP, under the Medicare Part D program. Our quarterly Insurance segment earnings and operating cash flows are impacted by the Medicare Part D benefit design and changes in the composition of our membership. The Medicare Part D benefit design results in coverage that varies as a member’s cumulative out-of-pocket costs pass through successive stages of a member’s plan period, which begins annually on January 1 for renewals. These plan designs generally result in us sharing a greater portion of the responsibility for total prescription drug costs in the early stages and less in the latter stages. As a result, the PDP benefit ratio generally decreases as the year progresses. In addition, the number of low income senior members as well as year-over-year changes in the mix of membership in our standalone PDP products affects the quarterly benefit ratio pattern. The Insurance segment also experiences seasonality in the fully-insured product offering. The effect on the Insurance's segment benefit ratio is opposite of the Medicare stand-alone PDP impact, with the benefit ratio increasing as fully-insured members progress through their annual deductible and maximum out-of-pocket expenses. In addition, the Insurance segment also experiences seasonality in the operating cost ratio as a result of costs incurred in the second half of the year associated with the Medicare marketing season. Highlights • Our strategy offers our members affordable health care combined with a positive consumer experience in growing markets. At the core of this strategy is our integrated care delivery model, which unites quality care, high member engagement, and sophisticated data analytics. Our approach to primary, physician-directed care for our members aims to provide quality care that is consistent, integrated, cost-effective, and member-focused, provided by both employed physicians and physicians with network contract arrangements. The model is designed to improve health outcomes and affordability for individuals and for the health system as a whole, while offering our members a simple, seamless healthcare experience. We believe this strategy is positioning us for long-term growth in both membership and earnings. We offer providers a continuum of opportunities to increase the integration of care and offer assistance to providers in transitioning from a fee-for-service to a value-based arrangement. These include performance bonuses, shared savings and shared risk relationships. At December 31, 2022, approximately 3,175,500 members, or 70%, of our individual Medicare Advantage members were in value-based relationships under our integrated care delivery model, as compared to 3,009,600 members, or 68%, at December 31, 2021. 43 • On February 1, 2023, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, issued its preliminary 2024 Medicare Advantage and Part D payment rates and proposed policy changes, collectively, the Advance Notice. CMS has invited public comment on the Advance Notice before publishing final rates on or before April 3, 2023, or the Final Notice. In the Advance Notice, CMS estimates Medicare Advantage plans across the sector will, on average, experience a 2.27% decrease in benchmark funding based on proposals included therein. As indicated by CMS, its estimate excludes the impact of fee-for-service county rebasing/re-pricing since the related impact is dependent upon finalization of certain data, which will be available with the publication of the Final Notice. Further the benchmark decrease excludes MA risk score trend as individual plans’ experience will vary. Based on the company’s preliminary analysis using the same factors CMS included in its estimate, the components of which are detailed on CMS’s website, we anticipate the proposals in the Advance Notice would result, on average, in a change relatively in line with CMS’ estimate, with the exception of Humana's Medicare Star Ratings for bonus year 2024, which led the company’s peers, as well as the Risk Model Revision and Normalization Adjustment, which the company continues to analyze. With respect to the Risk Model Revision and Normalization adjustment, CMS provided detail to the company indicating an average impact to Humana relatively in line with the average negative 3.12% industry impact. The company continues to analyze the Advance Notice, including CMS’ estimate of the Humana specific impact related to the Risk Model Revision and Normalization adjustment, which is likely to have a more negative impact on individual plans and specific membership cohorts with greater risk score trend, and will be drawing upon its program expertise to provide CMS formal commentary on the impact of the Advance Notice and the related impact on Medicare beneficiaries’ quality of care and service to its members through the Medicare Advantage program. • Net income was $2.8 billion, or $22.08 per diluted common share, and $2.9 billion, or $22.67 per diluted common share, in  2022 and 2021, respectively. This comparison was significantly impacted by the gain on KAH equity method investment recognized in August 2021, put/call valuation adjustments associated with non-consolidating minority interest investments, transaction and integration costs, the change in the fair value of publicly-traded equity securities, charges associated with productivity initiatives related to previously disclosed $1 billion value creation plan, and the net gain on the sale of KAH Hospice. The impact of these adjustments to our consolidated income before income taxes and equity in net (losses) earnings and diluted earnings per common share was as follows for the 2022 and 2021 periods: 44 45 Health Care Reform We are and will continue to be regularly subject to new laws and regulations, changes to existing laws and regulations, and judicial determinations that impact the interpretation and applicability of those laws and regulations. The Health Care Reform Law, the Families First Act, the CARES Act, and the Inflation Reduction Act, and related regulations, are examples of laws which have enacted significant reforms to various aspects of the U.S. health insurance industry, including, among others, mandated coverage requirements, mandated benefits and guarantee issuance associated with commercial medical insurance, rebates to policyholders based on minimum benefit ratios, adjustments to Medicare Advantage premiums, the establishment of federally facilitated or state-based exchanges coupled with programs designed to spread risk among insurers, and the introduction of plan designs based on set actuarial values, and changes to the Part D prescription drug benefit design . It is reasonably possible that these laws and regulations, as well as other current or future legislative, judicial or regulatory changes (including further legislative or regulatory action taken in response to COVID-19) including restrictions on our ability to manage our provider network or otherwise operate our business, or restrictions on profitability, including reviews by regulatory bodies that may compare our Medicare Advantage profitability to our non-Medicare Advantage business profitability, or compare the profitability of various products within our Medicare Advantage business, and require that they remain within certain ranges of each other, increases in member benefits or changes to member eligibility criteria without corresponding increases in premium payments to us, or increases in regulation of our prescription drug benefit businesses, in the aggregate may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations (including restricting revenue, enrollment and premium growth in certain products and market segments, restricting our ability to expand into new markets, increasing our medical and operating costs, further lowering our Medicare payment rates and increasing our expenses associated with assessments); our financial position (including our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill); and our cash flows. We intend for the discussion of our financial condition and results of operations that follows to assist in the understanding of our financial statements and related changes in certain key items in those financial statements from year to year, including the primary factors that accounted for those changes. Transactions between reportable segments primarily consist of sales of services rendered by our CenterWell segment, primarily pharmacy, provider services, and home solutions, to our Insurance segment customers and are described in Note 18 to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. –  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data in this 2022 Form 10-K. 46 Comparison of Results of Operations for 2022 and 2021 Certain financial data on a consolidated basis and for our segments was as follows for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021: Consolidated (a) Represents total benefits expense as a percentage of premiums revenue. (b) Represents total operating costs, excluding depreciation and amortization, as a percentage of total revenues less investment income. 47 Premiums Revenue Consolidated premiums revenue increased $7.9 billion, or 9.9%, from $79.8 billion in the 2021 period to $87.7 billion in the 2022 period primarily due to individual Medicare Advantage and state-based contracts membership growth and higher per member individual Medicare Advantage and commercial fully-insured medical premiums, partially offset by declining year-over-year membership associated with the group commercial medical products and the phase-out of COVID-19 sequestration relief in the 2022 period. Services Revenue Consolidated services revenue increased $1.7 billion, or 56.3%, from $3.1 billion in the 2021 period to $4.8 billion in the 2022 period primarily due to the impact of our home solutions revenues which reflect the acquisition of the remaining 60% interest in KAH during August 2021 partially offset by the divestiture of the 60% ownership interest in KAH Hospice during August 2022. Investment Income Investment income increased $195 million, or 104.3%, from $187 million in the 2021 period to $382 million in the 2022 period p rimarily due to lower mark to market losses on our publicly traded equity securities during the 2022 period compared to the 2021 period. Benefits Expense Consolidated benefits expense increased $6.5 billion, or 9.4%, from $69.2 billion in the 2021 period to $75.7 billion in the 2022 period. The consolidated benefit ratio decreased 40 basis points from 86.7% in the 2021 period to 86.3% in the 2022 period primarily due to higher per member individual Medicare Advantage premiums and lower inpatient utilization associated with the individual Medicare Advantage business. These factors were partially offset by lower favorable prior-period medical claims reserve development. Further, the 2022 period ratio reflects a shift in line of business mix, with continued growth in certain government programs, which carry a higher benefits expense ratio, combined with a decline in Medicare stand-alone PDP, which has a lower benefits expense ratio. Consolidated benefits expense included $415 million of favorable prior-period medical claims reserve development in the 2022 period and $825 million of favorable prior-period medical claims reserve development in the 2021 period. Prior-period medical claims reserve development decreased the consolidated benefit ratio by approximately 50 basis points in the 2022 period and decreased the consolidated benefit ratio by approximately 100 basis points in the 2021 period. Operating Costs Our segments incur both direct and shared indirect operating costs. We allocate the indirect costs shared by the segments primarily as a function of revenues. As a result, the profitability of each segment is interdependent. Consolidated operating costs increased $2.6 billion, or 25.2%, from $10.1 billion in the 2021 period to $12.7 billion in the 2022 period. The consolidated operating cost ratio increased 150 basis points from 12.2% in the 2021 period to 13.7% in the 2022 period. The ratio increase was primarily due to the impact of the consolidation of KAH operations, which have a significantly higher operating cost ratio than our historical consolidated operating cost ratio, the  net  impact  of  charges  associated  with  initiatives  undertaken  associated  with  our value creation initiatives, as well as the impact of higher marketing spend in 2022 to support individual Medicare Advantage growth. These increases were partially offset by scale efficiencies associated with growth in individual Medicare Advantage membership. 48 Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization increased $113 million, or 19.0%, from $596 million in the 2021 period to $709 million in the 2022 period primarily due to capital expenditures. Interest Expense Interest expense increased $75 million, or 23.0%, from $326 million in the 2021 period to $401 million in the 2022 period primarily due to higher average borrowings outstanding partially offset by lower interest rates. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate during 2022 was 21.4% compared to the effective tax rate of 14.2% in 2021. The year-over-year increase in the effective income tax rates is primarily due to the impact of the August 2021 acquisition of the remaining 60% interest in KAH. In that period, we recognized a $1.1 billion mark-to-market gain related to our previously held 40% investment in KAH. This unrealized gain was not taxable, thereby reducing the effective income tax rate for the 2021 period. The increase is partially offset by the August 2022 disposition of our 60% interest in KAH Hospice, which resulted in an increase to our tax basis in both the shares sold and the shares retained, thereby reducing the effective income tax rate for the 2022 period. For a complete reconciliation of the federal statutory rate to the effective tax rate, refer to Note 12 to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K. 49 Insurance Segment Income from operations Insurance segment income from operations increased $0.6 billion, or 25.3%, from $2.4 billion in the 2021 period to $3.0 billion in the 2022 period primarily due to the same factors impacting the segment's lower benefit ratio offset by the same factors impacting the segment's higher operating cost ratio as more fully described below. 50 Enrollment Individual Medicare Advantage membership increased 156,500 members, or 3.5%, from 4,409,100 members as of December 31, 2021 to 4,565,600 members as of December 31, 2022 primarily due to membership additions associated with the 2022 Annual Election Period, or AEP. The year-over-year growth was further impacted by continued enrollment resulting from special elections, age-ins, and Dual Eligible Special Need Plans, or D-SNP, membership. I ndividual Medicare Advantage membership includes 668,900 D-SNP members as of December 31, 2022, a net increase of 92,800 members, or 16.1%, from 576,100 members as of December 31, 2021. For the full year 2023, we anticipate a net membership growth in our individual Medicare Advantage offerings of at least 625,000 members. Group Medicare Advantage membership increased 4,500 members, or 0.8% , from 560,600 members as of December 31, 2021 to 565,100 members as of December 31, 2022 reflectin g smaller account sales and organic growth in concurrent accounts with no large accounts won or lost for the period. For the full year 2023, we anticipate a net membership decline in our group Medicare Advantage offerings of approximately 60,000 members. Medic are stand-alone PDP membership decreased 54,900 members, or 1.5% , from 3,606,200 members as of December 31, 2021 to 3,551,300 members as of December 31, 2022 primarily due to continued intensified competition for Medicare stand-alone PDP offerings. For the full year 2023, we anticipate a net membership decline in our Medicare stand-alone PDP offerings of approximately 800,000 members. Medicaid and other membership increased 197,200 members, or 21.0%, from 940,100 members as of December 31, 2021 to 1,137,300 members as of December 31, 2022 reflecting the suspension of state eligibility redetermination efforts due to the currently enacted public health emergency, or PHE . For the full year 2023, we anticipate a net membership growth in our state-based contracts of approximately 25,000 to 100,000 members. Commercial fully-insured medical membership decreased 118,300 members, or 17.5%, from 674,600 members as of December 31, 2021 to 556,300 members as of December 31, 2022  reflecting the impact of pricing discipline to address COVID-19 and improve profitability. ASO commercial medical membership decreased 65,400 members, or 13.2%, from 495,500 members as of December 31, 2021 to 430,100 members as of December 31, 2022 reflecting continued intensified competition for small group accounts, partially offset by strong retention among large group accounts. For the full year 2023, we anticipate a net membership decline in our group commercial medical offerings, which includes fully-insured and ASO, of approximately 300,000 members. Military services membership decreased 89,100 members, or 1.5%, from 6,049,000 members as of December 31, 2021 to 5,959,900 members as of December 31, 2022. Membership includes military service members, retirees, and their families to whom we are providing healthcare services under the current TRICARE East Region contract. Specialty membership decreased 99,500 members, or 1.9%, from 5,294,300 members as of December 31, 2021 to 5,194,800 members as of December 31, 2022 primarily due to the loss of dental and vision groups cross-sold with medical, as reflected in the loss of group fully-insured commercial medical membership above. In addition, current membership reflects the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Premiums revenue Insurance segment premiums revenue increased $7.9 billion, or 9.9%, from $79.8 billion in the 2021 period to $87.7 billion in the 2022 period primarily due to individual Medicare Advantage and state-based contracts membership growth and higher per member individual Medicare Advantage and commercial fully-insured medical premiums, partially offset by declining year-over-year membership associated with the group commercial medical products and the phase-out of COVID-19 sequestration relief in the 2022 period. 51 Services revenue Insurance segment services revenue decreased $3 million, or 0.4%, from $853 million in the 2021 period to $850 million in the 2022 period. Benefits expense The Insurance segment benefit ratio decreased 60 basis points from 87.2% in the 2021 period to 86.6% in the 2022 period primarily due to higher per member individual Medicare Advantage premiums and lower inpatient utilization associated with the individual Medicare Advantage business. These factors were partially offset by lower favorable prior-period medical claims reserve development. Further, the 2022 period ratio reflects a shift in line of business mix, with continued growth in certain government programs, which carry a higher benefits expense ratio, combined with a decline in Medicare stand-alone PDP, which has a lower benefits expense ratio. The Insurance segment benefits expense included $415 million of favorable prior-period medical claims reserve development in the 2022 period and $825 million of favorable prior-period medical claims reserve development in the 2021 period. Prior-period medical claims reserve development decreased the Insurance's segment benefit ratio by approximately 50 basis points in the 2022 period and decreased the Insurance's segment benefit ratio by approximately 100 basis points in the 2021 period. Operating costs The Insurance segment operating cost ratio increased 10 basis points from 10.3% in the 2021 period to 10.4% in the 2022 period primarily due to strategic investments to position the segment for long-term success, including the impact of higher marketing spend in the 2022 period to support individual Medicare Advantage growth. These factors were partially offset by scale efficiencies associated with growth in the individual Medicare Advantage membership. 52 CenterWell Segment Income from operations CenterWell segment income from operations increased $353 million, or 37.6%, from $938 million in the 2021 period to $1.3 billion in the 2022 period primarily due primarily due to the same factors impacting the increase in services revenue and intersegment revenues as well as the same factors impacting the segment's lower operating cost ratio in the 2022 period as more fully described below. Services revenue CenterWell segment services revenue increased $1.7 billion, or 78.3%, from $2.2 billion in the 2021 period to $3.9 billion in the 2022 period primarily due to the impact of our home solutions revenues which reflect the acquisition of the remaining 60% interest in KAH during August 2021 partially offset by the divestiture of the 60% ownership interest in KAH Hospice during August 2022. Intersegment revenues CenterWell segment intersegment revenues increased $1.5 billion, or 12.8%, from $11.9 billion in the 2021 period to $13.4 billion in the 2022 period primarily due to individual Medicare Advantage membership growth, combined with the impact of greater mail-order pharmacy penetration for Medicare Advantage members, which lead to higher pharmacy revenues, as well as higher revenues associated with growth in our provider business. Operating costs The CenterWell segment operating cost ratio decreased 80 basis points from 92.3% in the 2021 period to 91.5% in the 2022 period primarily represents the consolidation of KAH operations for the entire 2022 period compared to the partial 2021 period due to timing of the previously disclosed transaction. The KAH operations have a lower operating cost ratio than other businesses within the segment. The year-over-year favorability was further impacted by our pharmacy operations partially offset by investments in KAH to abate the pressures of the current nursing labor environment as well as the divestiture of the 60% interest in KAH Hospice during August 2022. 53 Comparison of Results of Operations for 2021 and 2020 Certain financial data on a consolidated basis and for our segments reflect our segment realignment and are recast as follows for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020: Consolidated (a) Represents total benefits expense as a percentage of premiums revenue. (b) Represents total operating costs, excluding depreciation and amortization, as a percentage of total revenues less investment income. 54 Premiums Revenue Consolidated premiums increased $5.6 billion, or 7.6%, from $74.2 billion in the 2020 period to $79.8 billion in the 2021 period primarily due to higher premium revenues from Medicare Advantage and state-based contracts membership growth, higher per member Medicare Advantage premiums as a result of the improving CMS benchmark rate for 2021, net of Medicare Risk Adjustment (MRA) headwinds resulting from COVID-19 related utilization disruption in 2020, as well as the additional quarter impact of Medicare sequestration relief in 2021 that was not enacted until the second quarter of 2020. These increases were partially offset by declining stand-alone PDP, group commercial medical, and group Medicare Advantage membership, as well as the 2020 impact of the receipt of commercial risk corridor receivables previously written off. Services Revenue Consolidated services revenue increased $1.2 billion, or 68.3%, from $1.8 billion in the 2020 period to $3.1 billion in the 2021 period primarily due to higher home solutions revenues associated with consolidation of Kindred at Home earnings. Investment Income Investment income decreased $967 million, or 83.8%, from $1.2 billion in the 2020 period to $187 million in the 2021 period p rimarily due to a significant decrease in the fair value of our publicly-traded equity securities  investments. Benefits Expense Consolidated benefits expense increased $7.6 billion, or 12.3%, from $61.6 billion in the 2020 period to $69.2 billion in the 2021 period. The consolidated benefit ratio increased 360 basis points from 83.1% in the 2020 period to 86.7% in the 2021 period. These increases reflect the termination in 2021 of the non-deductible health insurance industry fee which, along with a portion of the related tax benefit, was contemplated in the pricing and benefit design of our products, and COVID-19 impacts, including the impact of the deferral of non-essential care, net of meaningful COVID-19 treatment and testing costs, our pandemic relief efforts in 2020, as well as 2021 MRA headwinds resulting from this COVID-19 related utilization disruption in 2020. The year over year increase further reflects the 2020 impact of the receipt of commercial risk corridor receivables that were previously written off, and the 2021 impact a ssociated with the competitive nature of the group Medicare Advantage business, particularly in large group accounts that were recently procured, as well as in the stand-alone PDP business. These factors were partially offset by higher favorable prior-period medical claims reserve development in 2021. The higher favorable prior-period medical claims reserve development was primarily attributable to the reversal of actions taken in 2020, including the suspension of certain financial recovery programs for a period of time impacting our claim payment patterns. The suspension during 2020 was intended to provide financial and administrative relief for providers facing unprecedented strain as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The favorable prior-period medical claims reserve development decreased the consolidated benefit ratio by approximately 100 basis points in the 2021 period versus approximately 40 basis points in the 2020 period. Operating Costs Our segments incur both direct and shared indirect operating costs. We allocate the indirect costs shared by the segments primarily as a function of revenues. As a result, the profitability of each segment is interdependent. Consolidated operating costs increased $0.07 billion, or 0.7%, from $10.05 billion in the 2020 period to $10.12 billion in the 2021 period. The consolidated operating cost ratio decreased 100 basis points from 13.2% in the 2020 period to 12.2% in the 2021 period. The ratio decrease was primarily due to the termination of the non-deductible health insurance industry fee in 2021, as well as lower COVID-19 related administrative costs in 2021 compared to 2020. Administrative costs in 2020 included costs associated with personal protective equipment, member response efforts, and the build-out of infrastructure necessary to support employees working remotely. The decrease was 55 further impacted by scale efficiencies associated with growth in our individual Medicare Advantage membership, operating cost efficiencies in 2021 from previously implemented productivity initiatives, as well as the impact of a $200 million contribution to the Humana Foundation in the first half of 2020 to support communities served by the Company, particularly those with social and health disparities. These factors were partially offset by the consolidation of Kindred at Home operations as the business has a significantly higher operating cost ratio than our historical consolidated operating cost ratio, continued strategic and technology modernization investments made to position us for long-term success, transaction and integration costs associated with the Kindred at Home transaction, as well as the 2020 impact of the receipt of the commercial risk corridor receivables that were previously written off. The non-deductible health insurance industry fee impacted the operating cost ratio by 160 basis points in the 2020 period. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization increased $107 million, or 21.9%, from $489 million in the 2020 period to $596 million in the 2021 period primarily due to capital expenditures. Interest Expense Interest expense increased $43 million, or 15.2%, from $283 million in the 2020 period to $326 million in the 2021 period from borrowings to fund the KAH acquisition. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate during 2021 was 14.2% compared to the effective tax rate of 28.0% in 2020. The change was primarily due to the non-taxable gain we recognized on our previously held Kindred at Home equity method investment from our acquisition of the remaining ownership interest in the business in August 2021 and the termination of the non-deductible health insurance industry fee in 2021. 56 Insurance Segment Income from operations Insurance segment income from operations decreased $0.7 billion, or 22.7%, from $3.1 billion in the 2020 period to $2.4 billion in the 2021 period primarily due to the same factors impacting the segment's higher benefit ratio offset by the same factors impacting the segment's lower operating cost ratio as more fully described below. 57 Enrollment Individual Medicare Advantage membership increased 446,400 members, or 11.3%, from 3,962,700 members as of December 31, 2020 to 4,409,100 members as of December 31, 2021 primarily due to membership additions associated with the previous Annual Election Period, or AEP, and Open Election Period, or OEP, for Medicare beneficiaries. The membership growth was further impacted by continued enrollment resulting from special elections, age-ins, and Dual Eligible Special Need Plans, or D-SNP, members. The OEP sales period, which ran from January 1 to March 31, 2021 added approximately 36,000 members compared to the 2020 OEP that added approximately 30,000 members. I ndividual Medicare Advantage membership includes 576,100 D-SNP members as of December 31, 2021, a net increase of 170,000 members, or 42%, from 406,100 members as of December 31, 2020. Group Medicare Advantage membership decreased 52,600 members, or 8.6% , from 613,200 members as of December 31, 2020 to 560,600 members as of December 31, 2021 primarily due to the net loss of certain large accounts in January 2021, partially offset by continued growth in small group accounts. Medic are stand-alone PDP membership decreased 260,500 members, or 6.7% , from 3,866,700 members as of December 31, 2020 to 3,606,200 members as of December 31, 2021 primarily due to anticipated declines as a result of the Walmart Value plan no longer being the low cost leader in 2021. Medicaid and other membership increased 167,700 members, or 21.7%, from 772,400 members as of December 31, 2020 to 940,100 members as of December 31, 2021 primarily reflecting additional enrollment as a result of the suspension of state eligibility redetermination efforts due to the currently-enacted Public Health Emergency, as well as our acquisition of the remaining 50% ownership interest in Wisconsin health care company iCare. Commercial fully-insured medical membership decreased 102,800 members, or 13.2%, from 777,400 members as of December 31, 2020 to 674,600 members as of December 31, 2021 reflecting lower small group quoting activity and sales attributable to depressed economic activity from the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by higher retention of existing customers, particularly in larger groups. The portion of commercial fully-insured medical membership in small group accounts was approximately 50% at December 31, 2021 and 54% at December 31, 2020. ASO commercial medical membership decreased 9,400 members, or 1.9%, from 504,900 members as of December 31, 2020 to 495,500 members as of December 31, 2021. S mall group membership comprised 43% of ASO commercial medical membership at December 31, 2021 and 45% at December 31, 2020. The membership change reflects intensified competition for small group accounts, partially offset by strong retention among large group accounts. Military services membership increased 50,300 members, or 0.8%, from 5,998,700 members as of December 31, 2020 to 6,049,000 members as of December 31, 2021. Membership includes military service members, retirees, and their families to whom we are providing healthcare services under the current TRICARE East Region contract. Specialty membership decreased 16,000 members, or 0.3%, from 5,310,300 members as of December 31, 2020 to 5,294,300 members as of December 31, 2021 primarily due to the loss of dental and vision groups cross-sold with medical, as reflected in the loss of commercial fully-insured medical membership described above. The decrease also reflects the impact of the economic downturn driven by the COVID-19 pandemic. Premiums revenue Insurance segment premiums increased $6.2 billion, or 8.5%, from $73.6 billion in the 2020 period to $79.8 billion in the 2021 period primarily due to higher premium revenues from Medicare Advantage and state-based contracts membership growth, higher per member Medicare Advantage premiums as a result of the improving CMS benchmark rate for 2021, net of Medicare Risk Adjustment (MRA) headwinds resulting from COVID-19 related 58 utilization disruption in 2020, as well as the additional quarter impact of Medicare sequestration relief in 2021 that was not enacted until the second quarter of 2020. These increases were partially offset by declining Medicare stand-alone PDP, commercial fully insured, and group Medicare Advantage membership. Services revenue Insurance segment services revenue increased $40 million, or 4.9%, from $813 million in the 2020 period to $853 million in the 2021 period primarily due to higher TRICARE services revenue partially offset by lower ASO membership described previously. Benefits expense The Insurance segment benefit ratio increased 310 basis points from 84.1% in the 2020 period to 87.2% in the 2021 period. This increase reflects the termination in 2021 of the non-deductible health insurance industry fee which, along with a portion of the related tax benefit, was contemplated in the pricing and benefit design of our products, and COVID-19 impacts, including the impact of the deferral of non-essential care, net of meaningful COVID-19 treatment and testing costs, our pandemic relief efforts in 2020, as well as 2021 MRA headwinds resulting from this COVID-19 related utilization disruption in 2020. The year over year increase further reflects the 2021 impact associated with the competitive nature of the group Medicare Advantage business, particularly in large group accounts that were recently procured, as well as in the stand-alone PDP business. These factors were partially offset by higher favorable prior-period medical claims reserve development in 2021. The Insurance segment benefits expense included $825 million of favorable prior-period medical claims reserve development in the 2021 period and $313 million of favorable prior-period medical claims reserve development in the 2021 period. Prior-period medical claims reserve development decreased the Insurance's segment benefit ratio by approximately 100 basis points in the 2021 period and decreased the Insurance's segment benefit ratio by approximately 40 basis points in the 2020 period. The higher favorable prior-period medical claims reserve development was primarily attributable to the reversal of actions taken in 2020, including the suspension of certain financial recovery programs for a period of time impacting our claim payment patterns. The suspension during 2020 was intended to provide financial and administrative relief for providers facing unprecedented strain as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Operating costs The Insurance segment operating cost ratio decreased 200 basis points from 12.3% in the 2020 period to 10.3% in the 2022 period primarily due to the termination of the non-deductible health insurance industry fee in 2021, lower COVID-19 related administrative costs, as previously discussed, scale efficiencies associated with growth in our individual Medicare Advantage membership, as well as operating cost efficiencies driven by previously implemented productivity initiatives. These improvements were partially offset by continued strategic investments made in 2021 to position us for long-term success. The non-deductible health insurance industry fee impacted the operating cost ratio by 160 basis points in the 2020 period. 59 CenterWell Segment Income from operations CenterWell segment income from operations increased $314 million, or 50.3%, from $624 million in the 2020 period to $938 million in the 2021 period primarily due to consolidation of Kindred at Home earnings, individual Medicare Advantage and state-based contracts membership growth leading to higher pharmacy revenues, higher revenues associated with growth in our provider business, as well as the factors that drove the segment declining operating cost ratio as more fully described below. Services revenue CenterWell segment services revenue increased $1.2 billion, or 119.8%, from $1.0 billion in the 2020 period to $2.2 billion in the 2021 period primarily due to consolidation of Kindred at Home earnings. The 2021 period further reflects higher revenue from growth in the number of primary care clinics serving third party payors, and additional pharmacy revenues associated with the acquisition of Enclara which was closed during the first quarter of 2020. Intersegment revenues CenterWell segment intersegment revenues increased $1.4 billion, or 13.1%, from $10.5 billion in the 2020 period to $11.9 billion in the 2021 period primarily due to individual Medicare Advantage and state-based contracts membership growth, as well as higher revenues associated with our provider business. These increases were partially offset by the loss of intersegment revenues associated with the decline in stand-alone PDP and group Medicare Advantage membership as previously discussed. 60 Operating costs The CenterWell segment operating cost ratio decreased 100 basis points from 93.3% in the 2020 period to 92.3% in the 2021 period primarily due to consolidation of Kindred at Home operations which have a lower operating cost ratio than other businesses within the segment, the 2020 impact associated with COVID-19 administrative related costs, including expenses associated with additional safety measures taken for our pharmacy, provider, and home solutions teams who continued to provide services to members throughout the crisis, as well as operational improvements in our provider services business, largely related to Conviva, along with operating cost efficiencies driven by previously implemented productivity initiatives in 2021. The decrease further reflects the impact of additional investments in the segment's provider business during 2020 related to marketing and AEP initiatives. These decreases were partially offset by increased administrative costs in the pharmacy operations as a result of incremental spend to accelerate growth within the business, increased utilization levels in our provider business in 2021 compared to levels in 2020 amid the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as increased pharmacy labor-related overtime costs due to weather disruptions occurring in the first quarter of 2021. Liquidity Historically, our primary sources of cash have included receipts of premiums, services revenue, and investment and other income, as well as proceeds from the sale or maturity of our investment securities, and borrowings. Our primary uses of cash historically have included disbursements for claims payments, operating costs, interest on borrowings, taxes, purchases of investment securities, acquisitions, capital expenditures, repayments on borrowings, dividends, and share repurchases. Because premiums generally are collected in advance of claim payments by a period of up to several months, our business normally should produce positive cash flows during periods of increasing premiums and enrollment. Conversely, cash flows would be negatively impacted during periods of decreasing premiums and enrollment. From period to period, our cash flows may also be affected by the timing of working capital items including premiums receivable, benefits payable, and other receivables and payables. Our cash flows are impacted by the timing of payments to and receipts from CMS associated with Medicare Part D subsidies for which we do not assume risk. The use of cash flows may be limited by regulatory requirements of state departments of insurance (or comparable state regulators) which require, among other items, that our regulated subsidiaries maintain minimum levels of capital and seek approval before paying dividends from the subsidiaries to the parent. Our use of cash flows derived from our non-insurance subsidiaries, such as in our CenterWell segment, is generally not restricted by state departments of insurance (or comparable state regulators). For additional information on our liquidity risk, please refer to Item 1A. – Risk Factors in this 2022 Form 10-K. Cash and cash equivalents increased to $5.1 billion at December 31, 2022 from $3.4 billion at December 31, 2021. The change in cash and cash equivalents for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 is summarized as follows: 61 Cash Flow from Operating Activities Cash flows provided by operations of $4.6 billion in the 2022 period increased $2.3 billion from cash flows provided by operations of $2.3 billion in the 2021 period primarily due to higher earnings in 2022, exclusive of the gain on the sale of KAH Hospice recognized in the 2022 period and the gain on the KAH equity method investment recognized in the 2021 period, combined with positive working capital impacts in 2022, and the 2021 period impact associated with the pay down of claims inventory and capitation for provider surplus amounts earned in 2020 and additional provider support. The most significant drivers of changes in our working capital are typically the timing of payments of benefits expense and receipts for premiums. Benefits expense includes claim payments, capitation payments, pharmacy costs net of rebates, allocations of certain centralized expenses and various other costs incurred to provide health insurance coverage to members, as well as estimates of future payments to hospitals and others for medical care and other supplemental benefits provided on or prior to the balance sheet date. For additional information regarding our benefits payable and benefits expense recognition, refer to Note 2 to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K. The detail of total net receivables was as follows at December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020: The changes in Medicare receivables for both the 2022 period and the 2021 period reflect individual Medicare Advantage membership growth and the typical pattern caused by the timing of accruals and related collections associated with the CMS risk-adjustment model. The decrease in Commercial and other receivables and the allowance for doubtful accounts for 2022 primarily relates to the KAH Hospice disposition. The increase in Commercial and other receivables in 2021 primarily relates to the Kindred at Home acquisition. Cash Flow from Investing Activities During 2022, we acquired various businesses totaling to approximately $337 million, net of cash received. During 2021, we acquired Kindred at Home and other primary care businesses for cash consideration of approximately $4.2 billion, net of cash received. During 2020, we acquired Enclara Healthcare, a hospice, pharmacy and benefit provider,  for cash consideration of approximately $709 million, net of cash received. During 2022, we completed the sale of a 60% i nterest in Humana’s Kindred at Home Hospice subsidiary, or KAH Hospice, to Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, or CD&R, for cash proceeds of approximately $2.7 billion, net of cash disposed, including debt repayments from KAH Hospice to Humana of $1.9 billion. In connection with the sale, we recognized a pre-tax gain, net of transaction costs, of $237 million which is reported as a gain on sale of KAH Hospice in the accompanying consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2022. 62 Our ongoing capital expenditures primarily relate to our information technology initiatives, support of services in our provider services operations including medical and administrative facility improvements necessary for activities such as the provision of care to members, claims processing, billing and collections, wellness solutions, care coordination, regulatory compliance and customer service. Total capital expenditures, excluding acquisitions, were $1.1 billion, $1.3 billion and $964 million in the 2022, 2021 and 2020 periods, respectively. Net purchases of investment securities were $2.3 billion, $1.1 billion, $1.4 billion in the 2022, 2021 and 2020 periods, respectively. Cash Flow from Financing Activities Our financing cash flows are significantly impacted by the timing of claims payments and the related receipts from CMS associated with Medicare Part D claim subsidies for which we do not assume risk. Monthly prospective payments from CMS for reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies are based on assumptions submitted with our annual bid. Settlement of the reinsurance and low-income cost subsidies is based on a reconciliation made approximately 9 months after the close of each calendar year. Receipts from CMS associated with Medicare Part D claim subsidies for which we do not assume risk were higher than claim payments by $2 billion in the 2022 period and claim payments were higher than receipts from CMS associated with Medicare Part D claim subsidies for which we do not assume risk by $261 million and $938 million in the 2021 and 2020 periods, respectively. Our net payable from CMS for subsidies and brand name prescription drug discounts was $540 million at December 31, 2022 compared to a net receivable of $1.4 billion at December 31, 2021. Under our administrative services only TRICARE contract, reimbursements from the federal government exceeded health care costs payments for which we do not assume risk by $25 million in the 2022 period and health care costs payments for which we do not assume risk exceeded reimbursements from the federal government by $45 million and $1 million in the 2021 and 2020 periods, respectively. In December 2022, we repaid $600 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.150% senior notes due on their maturity date of December 1, 2022 and $400 million aggregate principal amount of our 2.900% senior notes due on their maturity date of December 15, 2022. In November 2022, we issued $500 million of 5.750% unsecured senior notes due March 1, 2028 and $750 million of 5.875% unsecured senior notes due March 1, 2033. Our net proceeds, reduced for the underwriters' discounts and commissions paid, were $1.2 billion. In March 2022, we issued $750 million of 3.700% unsecured senior notes due March 23, 2029. Our net proceeds, reduced for the underwriters' discounts and commissions paid, were $744 million. In August 2021, we issued $1.5 billion of 0.650% unsecured senior notes due August 3, 2023, $750 million of 1.350% unsecured senior notes due February 3, 2027 and $750 million of 2.150% unsecured senior notes due February 3, 2032. Our net proceeds, reduced for the underwriters' discounts and commissions paid, were $2,984 million. In December 2020, we repaid $400 million aggregate principal amount of our 2.500% senior notes due on their maturity date of December 15, 2020. In March 2020, we issued $600 million of 4.500% senior notes due April 1, 2025 and $500 million of 4.875% senior notes due April 1, 2030. Our net proceeds, reduced for the underwriters' discounts and commissions and offering expenses paid, were $1,088 million. In August 2022, we repaid the $2.0 billion October 2021 Term Loan Agreement without a prepayment penalty due. In October 2021, we entered into a $2.0 billion term loan agreement and applied the proceeds to finance the repayment in full of the outstanding assumed Kindred at Home debt. 63 In August 2021, we borrowed $500 million under the delayed draw term loan agreement, which was used, in combination with other debt financing, to fund the approximate $5.8 billion transaction price of Kindred at Home. In March 2020, we drew $1 billion on the existing term loan commitment at the time, which was repaid in November 2020. We entered into a commercial paper program in October 2014. Net repayments from issuance of commercial paper were $376 million in 2022 and the maximum principal amount outstanding at any one time during 2022 was $1.5 billion. Net proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper were $352 million in 2021 and the maximum principal amount outstanding at any one time during 2021 was $1.2 billion. Net proceeds from issuance of commercial paper were $295 million in 2020 and the maximum principal amount outstanding at any one time during 2020 was $600 million. We repurchased common shares for $2.10 billion, $79 million and $1.82 billion in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, under share repurchase plans authorized by the Board of Directors and in connection with employee stock plans. We paid dividends to stockholders of $392 million in 2022, $354 million in 2021, and $323 million in 2020. The remainder of the cash used in or provided by financing activities in 2022, 2021, and 2020 primarily resulted from debt issuance costs, proceeds from stock option exercises and the change in book overdraft. Future Sources and Uses of Liquidity Dividends For a detailed discussion of dividends to stockholders, please refer to Note 16 to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K. Stock Repurchases For a detailed discussion of stock repurchases, please refer to Note 16 to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K. Debt For a detailed discussion of our debt, including our senior notes, term loans, credit agreement and commercial paper program, please refer to Note 13 to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K. Liquidity Requirements We believe our cash balances, investment securities, operating cash flows, and funds available under our credit agreement and our commercial paper program or from other public or private financing sources, taken together, provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating and regulatory requirements, acquisitions, future expansion opportunities, and capital expenditures for at least the next twelve months, as well as to refinance or repay debt, and repurchase shares. Adverse changes in our credit rating may increase the rate of interest we pay and may impact the amount of credit available to us in the future. Our investment-grade credit rating at December 31, 2022 was BBB+ according to Standard & Poor’s Rating Services, or S&P, and Baa3 according to Moody’s Investors Services, Inc., or Moody’s. A downgrade by S&P to BB+ or by Moody’s to Ba1 triggers an interest rate increase of 25 basis points with respect to $250 million of our senior notes. Successive one notch downgrades increase the interest rate an additional 25 basis points, or annual interest expense by $1 million, up to a maximum 100 basis points, or annual interest expense by $3 million. 64 In addition, we operate as a holding company in a highly regulated industry. Humana Inc., our parent company, is dependent upon dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from our subsidiaries, most of which are subject to regulatory restrictions. We continue to maintain significant levels of aggregate excess statutory capital and surplus in our state-regulated operating subsidiaries. Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments at the parent company decreased to $0.9 billion at December 31, 2022 from $1.3 billion at December 31, 2021. This decrease primarily reflects common stock repurchases, repayment of the October 2021 Term Loan Agreement, repayment of maturing senior notes, capital expenditures, repayment of borrowings under the commercial paper program, capital contributions to certain subsidiaries, cash dividends to shareholders and acquisitions, partially offset by net proceeds from the senior notes, proceeds from the sale of investment securities, dividends from insurance subsidiaries, and cash from certain non-insurance subsidiaries within our CenterWell segment. Our use of operating cash derived from our non-insurance subsidiaries, such as our CenterWell segment, is generally not restricted by regulators. Our regulated insurance subsidiaries paid dividends to our parent company of $1.3 billion in 2022, $1.6 billion in 2021, and $1.3 billion in 2020. Subsidiary capital requirements from significant premium growth has impacted the amount of regulated subsidiary dividends over the last two years. Refer to our parent company financial statements and accompanying notes in Schedule I - Parent Company Financial Information. The amount of ordinary dividends that may be paid to our parent company in 2023 is approximately $1.8 billion, in the aggregate. Actual dividends paid may vary due to consideration of excess statutory capital and surplus and expected future surplus requirements related to, for example, premium volume and product mix. Regulatory Requirements For a detailed discussion of our regulatory requirements, including aggregate statutory capital and surplus as well as dividends paid from the subsidiaries to our parent, please refer to Note 16 to the to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2022, we were not involved in any special purpose entity, or SPE, transactions. For a detailed discussion of off-balance sheet arrangements, please refer to Note 17 to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K. Guarantees and Indemnifications For a detailed discussion of our guarantees and indemnifications, please refer to Note 17 to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K. Government Contracts For a detailed discussion of our government contracts, including our Medicare, Military, and Medicaid and state-based contracts, please refer to Note 17  to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements and accompanying notes requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We continuously evaluate our estimates and those critical accounting policies primarily related to benefits expense and revenue recognition as well as accounting for impairments related to our investment securities, goodwill, indefinite-lived and long-lived assets. These estimates are based on knowledge of current events and anticipated future events and, accordingly, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates. We believe the following critical accounting policies involve the most significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. 65 Benefits Expense Recognition Benefits expense is recognized in the period in which services are provided and includes an estimate of the cost of services which have been incurred but not yet reported, or IBNR. Our reserving practice is to consistently recognize the actuarial best point estimate within a level of confidence required by actuarial standards. For further discussion of our reserving methodology, including our use of completion and claims per member per month trend factors to estimate IBNR, refer to Note 2 to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K. The completion and claims per member per month trend factors are the most significant factors impacting the IBNR estimate. The portion of IBNR estimated using completion factors for claims incurred prior to the most recent two months is generally less variable than the portion of IBNR estimated using trend factors. The following table illustrates the sensitivity of these factors assuming moderately adverse experience and the estimated potential impact on our operating results caused by reasonably likely changes in these factors based on December 31, 2022 data: (a) Reflects estimated potential changes in benefits payable at December 31, 2022 caused by changes in completion factors for incurred months prior to the most recent two months. (b) Reflects estimated potential changes in benefits payable at December 31, 2022 caused by changes in annualized claims trend used for the estimation of per member per month incurred claims for the most recent two months. (c) The factor change indicated represents the percentage point change. The following table provides a historical perspective regarding the accrual and payment of our benefits payable. Components of the total incurred claims for each year include amounts accrued for current year estimated benefits expense as well as adjustments to prior year estimated accruals. Refer to Note 11 to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K for information about incurred and paid claims development as of December 31, 2022, net of reinsurance, as well as cumulative claim frequency and the total of IBNR included within the net incurred claims amounts. 66 The following table summarizes the changes in estimate for incurred claims related to prior years attributable to our key assumptions. As previously described, our key assumptions consist of trend and completion factors estimated using an assumption of moderately adverse conditions. The amounts below represent the difference between our original estimates and the actual benefits expense ultimately incurred as determined from subsequent claim payments. (a) The factor change indicated represents the percentage point change. As previously discussed, our reserving practice is to consistently recognize the actuarial best estimate of our ultimate liability for claims. Actuarial standards require the use of assumptions based on moderately adverse experience, which generally results in favorable reserve development, or reserves that are considered redundant. We experienced favorable medical claims reserve development related to prior fiscal years of $415 million in 2022, $825 million in 2021, and $313 million in 2020. The favorable medical claims reserve development for 2022, 2021, and 2020 primarily reflects the consistent application of trend and completion factors estimated using an assumption of moderately adverse conditions. In addition, the higher prior year favorable development for the year ended December 31, 2021 was primarily attributable to the reversal of actions taken in 2020, including the suspension of certain financial recovery programs for a period of time impacting our claim payment patterns. The suspension during 2020 was intended to provide financial and administrative relief for providers facing unprecedented strain as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Our favorable development for each of the years presented above is discussed further in Note 11 to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. We continually adjust our historical trend and completion factor experience with our knowledge of recent events that may impact current trends and completion factors when establishing our reserves. Because our reserving practice is to consistently recognize the actuarial best point estimate using an assumption of moderately adverse 67 conditions as required by actuarial standards, there is a reasonable possibility that variances between actual trend and completion factors and those assumed in our December 31, 2022 estimates would fall towards the middle of the ranges previously presented in our sensitivity table. Revenue Recognition We generally establish one-year commercial membership contracts with employer groups, subject to cancellation by the employer group on 30-day written notice. Our Medicare contracts with CMS renew annually. Our military services contracts with the federal government and certain contracts with various state Medicaid programs generally are multi-year contracts subject to annual renewal provisions. We receive monthly premiums from the federal government and various states according to government specified payment rates and various contractual terms. We bill and collect premiums from employer groups and members in our Medicare and other individual products monthly.  Changes in premium revenues resulting from the periodic changes in risk-adjustment scores derived from medical diagnoses for our membership are estimated by projecting the ultimate annual premium and recognized ratably during the year with adjustments each period to reflect changes in the ultimate premium. Premiums revenue is estimated by multiplying the membership covered under the various contracts by the contractual rates. Premiums revenue is recognized as income in the period members are entitled to receive services, and is net of estimated uncollectible amounts, retroactive membership adjustments, and adjustments to recognize rebates under the minimum benefit ratios required under the Health Care Reform Law. We estimate policyholder rebates by projecting calendar year minimum benefit ratios for the small group and large group markets, as defined by the Health Care Reform Law using a methodology prescribed by HHS, separately by state and legal entity. Medicare Advantage products are also subject to minimum benefit ratio requirements under the Health Care Reform Law. Estimated calendar year rebates recognized ratably during the year are revised each period to reflect current experience. Retroactive membership adjustments result from enrollment changes not yet processed, or not yet reported by an employer group or the government. We routinely monitor the collectability of specific accounts, the aging of receivables, historical retroactivity trends, estimated rebates, as well as prevailing and anticipated economic conditions, and reflect any required adjustments in current operations. Premiums received prior to the service period are recorded as unearned revenues. 68 Medicare Risk-Adjustment Provisions CMS uses a risk-adjustment model which adjusts premiums paid to Medicare Advantage, or MA, plans according to health status of covered members. The risk-adjustment model, which CMS implemented pursuant to the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (BBA) and the Benefits Improvement and Protection Act of 2000 (BIPA), generally pays more where a plan's membership has higher expected costs. Under this model, rates paid to MA plans are based on actuarially determined bids, which include a process whereby our prospective payments are based on our estimated cost of providing standard Medicare-covered benefits to an enrollee with a "national average risk profile." That baseline payment amount is adjusted to account for certain demographic characteristics and health status of our enrolled members. Under the risk-adjustment methodology, all MA plans must collect from providers and submit the necessary diagnosis code information to CMS within prescribed deadlines. The CMS risk-adjustment model uses the diagnosis data, collected from providers, to calculate the health status-related risk-adjusted premium payment to MA plans, which CMS further adjusts for coding pattern differences between the health plans and the government fee-for-service (FFS) program. We generally rely on providers, including certain providers in our network who are our employees, to code their claim submissions with appropriate diagnoses, which we send to CMS as the basis for our health status-adjusted payment received from CMS under the actuarial risk-adjustment model. We also rely on these providers to document appropriately all medical data, including the diagnosis data submitted with claims. In addition, we conduct medical record reviews as part of our data and payment accuracy compliance efforts, to more accurately reflect diagnosis conditions under the risk adjustment model. For additional information, refer to Note 17 to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors" of this Form 10-K. Investment Securities Investment securities totaled $14.3 billion, or 33% of total assets at December 31, 2022, and $14.0 billion, or 31% of total assets at December 31, 2021. The investment portfolio was primarily comprised of debt securities, detailed below, at December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021. The fair value of investment securities were as follows at December 31, 2022 and 2021: Approximately 96% of our debt securities were investment-grade quality, with a weighted average credit rating of AA- by S&P at December 31, 2022. Most of the debt securities that were below investment-grade were rated BB-, the higher end of the below investment-grade rating scale. Tax-exempt municipal securities were diversified among general obligation bonds of states and local municipalities in the United States as well as special revenue bonds issued by municipalities to finance specific public works projects such as utilities, water and sewer, transportation, or education. Our general obligation bonds are diversified across the United States with no individual 69 state exceeding 1% of our total debt securities. Our investment policy limits investments in a single issuer and requires diversification among various asset types. Gross unrealized losses and fair values aggregated by investment category and length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position were as follows at December 31, 2022: Beginning on January 1, 2020, we adopted the new current expected credit losses, or CECL, model which retained many similarities from the previous other-than-temporary impairment model except eliminating from consideration in the impairment analysis the length of time over which the fair value had been less than cost. Also, under the CECL model, expected losses on available for sale debt securities are recognized through an allowance for credit losses rather than as reductions in the amortized cost of the securities. For debt securities whose fair value is less than their amortized cost which we do not intend to sell or are not required to sell, we evaluate the expected cash flows to be received as compared to amortized cost and determine if an expected credit loss has occurred. In the event of an expected credit loss, only the amount of the impairment associated with the expected credit loss is recognized in income with the remainder, if any, of the loss recognized in other comprehensive income.  To the extent we have the intent to sell the debt security or it is more likely than not we will be required to sell the debt security before recovery of our amortized cost basis, we recognize an impairment loss in income in an amount equal to the full difference between the amortized cost basis and the fair value. Potential expected credit loss impairment is considered using a variety of factors, including the extent to which the fair value has been less than cost; adverse conditions specifically related to the industry, geographic area or financial condition of the issuer or underlying collateral of a debt security; changes in the quality of the debt security's credit enhancement; payment structure of the debt security; changes in credit rating of the debt security by the rating agencies; failure of the issuer to make scheduled principal or interest payments on the debt security and changes in prepayment speeds. For debt securities, we take into account expectations of relevant market and economic data. For example, with respect to mortgage and asset-backed securities, such data includes underlying loan level data and structural features such as seniority and other forms of credit enhancements. We estimate the amount of the expected credit loss component of a debt security as the difference between the amortized cost and the present value of the expected cash flows of the security. The present value is determined using the best estimate of future cash flows discounted at the implicit interest rate at the date of purchase. The expected credit loss cannot exceed the full difference between the amortized cost basis and the fair value. The risks inherent in assessing the impairment of an investment include the risk that market factors may differ from our expectations, facts and circumstances factored into our assessment may change with the passage of time, or 70 we may decide to subsequently sell the investment. The determination of whether a decline in the value of an investment is related to a credit event requires us to exercise significant diligence and judgment. The discovery of new information and the passage of time can significantly change these judgments. The status of the general economic environment and significant changes in the national securities markets influence the determination of fair value and the assessment of investment impairment. There is a continuing risk that declines in fair value may occur and additional material realized losses from sales or expected credit loss impairments may be recorded in future periods. All issuers of debt securities we own that were trading at an unrealized loss at December 31, 2022 remain current on all contractual payments. After taking into account these and other factors previously described, we believe these unrealized losses primarily were caused by an increase in market interest rates in the current markets since the time the debt securities were purchased. At December 31, 2022, we did not intend to sell any debt securities with an unrealized loss position in accumulated other comprehensive income, and it is not likely that we will be required to sell these debt securities before recovery of their amortized cost basis. Additionally, we did not record any material credit allowances for debt securities that were in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2022,  2021 or 2020. Goodwill, Indefinite-lived and Long-lived Assets At December 31, 2022, goodwill, indefinite-lived and other long-lived assets represented 33% of total assets and 92% of total stockholders’ equity, compared to 38% and 104%, respectively, at December 31, 2021. The decrease in goodwill, indefinite-lived and other long-lived assets is primarily attributable to our August 2022 sale of KAH Hospice. For goodwill, we are required to test at least annually for impairment at a level of reporting referred to as the reporting unit, and more frequently if adverse events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. A reporting unit either is our operating segments or one level below the operating segments, referred to as a component, which comprise our reportable segments. A component is considered a reporting unit if the component constitutes a business for which discrete financial information is available that is regularly reviewed by management. We are required to aggregate the components of an operating segment into one reporting unit if they have similar economic characteristics. Goodwill is assigned to the reporting unit that is expected to benefit from a specific acquisition. We perform a quantitative assessment to review goodwill for impairment to determine both the existence and amount of goodwill impairment, if any. Our strategy, long-range business plan, and annual planning process support our goodwill impairment tests. These tests are performed, at a minimum, annually in the fourth quarter, and are based on an evaluation of future discounted cash flows. We rely on this discounted cash flow analysis to determine fair value. However outcomes from the discounted cash flow analysis are compared to other market approach valuation methodologies for reasonableness. We use discount rates that correspond to a market-based weighted-average cost of capital and terminal growth rates that correspond to long-term growth prospects, consistent with the long-term inflation rate. Key assumptions in our cash flow projections, including changes in membership, premium yields, medical and operating cost trends, and certain government contract extensions, are consistent with those utilized in our long-range business plan and annual planning process. If these assumptions differ from actual, including the impact of the Health Care Reform Law or changes in government reimbursement rates, the estimates underlying our goodwill impairment tests could be adversely affected. The fair value of our reporting units with significant goodwill exceeded carrying amounts by a substantial margin. However, unfavorable changes in key assumptions or combinations of assumptions including a significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the long-term growth rate or substantial reduction in our underlying cash flow assumptions, including revenue growth rates, medical and operating cost trends, and projected operating income could have a significant negative impact on the estimated fair value of our home solutions and provider reporting units, which accounted for $4.3 billion and $1.1 billion of goodwill, respectively. Impairment tests completed for 2022, 2021, and 2020 did not result in an impairment loss. Indefinite-lived intangible assets relate to Certificate of Needs (CON) and Medicare licenses acquired in connection with our August 2021 KAH acquisition with a carrying value of $1.4 billion at December 31, 2022. Like 71 goodwill, we are required to test at least annually for impairment and more frequently if adverse events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. These tests are performed, at a minimum, annually in the fourth quarter. If the carrying amount of an indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized. Fair values of indefinite-lived intangible assets are determined based on the income approach. Impairment tests completed for 2022 did not result in a material impairment loss. These charges reflect the amount by which the carrying value exceeded its estimated fair value. Impairment tests completed for 2021 did not result in an impairment loss. The fair values of the assets were measured using Level 3 inputs, such as projected revenues and operating cash flows. Long-lived assets consist of property and equipment and other definite-lived intangible assets. These assets are depreciated or amortized over their estimated useful life, and are subject to impairment reviews. We periodically review long-lived assets whenever adverse events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. In assessing recoverability, we must make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors to determine if an impairment loss may exist, and, if so, estimate fair value. We also must estimate and make assumptions regarding the useful life we assign to our long-lived assets. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record impairment losses or change the useful life, including accelerating depreciation or amortization for these assets. Other than the $248 million of asset impairment charges as a result of our value creation initiatives as described in Footnote 2 to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K, there were no other impairment losses in the last three years.