********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in the description of these operations contained elsewhere in this report, set forth below are risks and uncertainties that could affect our financial results.  Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, the following risks and uncertainties apply to Pinnacle West and its subsidiaries, including APS. REGULATORY RISKS Our financial condition depends upon APS’s ability to recover costs in a timely manner from customers through regulated rates and otherwise execute its business strategy. APS is subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence its business, liquidity and results of operations and its ability to fully recover costs from utility customers in a timely manner.  The ACC regulates APS’s retail electric rates and FERC regulates rates for wholesale power sales and transmission services.  The profitability of APS is affected by the rates it may charge and the timeliness of recovering costs incurred through its rates and adjustor recovery mechanisms.  Consequently, our financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon the satisfactory resolution of any APS rate proceedings, adjustor recovery and ancillary matters which may come before the ACC and FERC, including in some cases how court challenges to these regulatory decisions are resolved.  Arizona, like certain other states, has a statute that allows the ACC to reopen prior decisions and modify otherwise final orders under certain circumstances.  Additionally, given that APS is subject to oversight by several regulatory agencies, a resolution by one may not foreclose potential actions by others for similar or related matters.  See Note 10. The ACC must also approve APS’s issuance of equity and debt securities and any significant transfer or encumbrance of APS property used to provide retail electric service and must approve or receive prior notification of certain transactions between us, APS, and our respective affiliates, including the infusion of equity into APS.  Decisions made by the ACC or FERC could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. APS’s ability to conduct its business operations and avoid negative operational and financial impacts depends in part upon compliance with federal, state and local laws, judicial decisions, statutes, regulations and ACC requirements, which may be revised from time to time by legislative or other action, and obtaining and maintaining certain regulatory permits, approvals, and certificates. APS must comply in good faith with all applicable statutes, regulations, rules, tariffs, and orders of agencies that regulate APS’s business, including FERC, NRC, EPA, the ACC, and state and local governmental agencies.  These agencies regulate many aspects of APS’s utility operations, including safety and performance, emissions, siting and construction of facilities, customer service and the rates that APS can charge retail and wholesale customers.  Failure to comply can subject APS to, among other things, fines and penalties.  For example, under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, FERC can impose penalties (approximately $1.2 million per day per violation) for failure to comply with mandatory electric reliability standards.  APS is also required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from these agencies.  APS believes the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for its existing operations and that APS’s business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws in all material respects. Changes in laws or regulations that govern APS, new interpretations of laws and regulations, or the imposition of new or revised laws or regulations could have an adverse impact on the manner in which we operate our business and our results of operations.  In particular, new or revised laws or interpretations of existing laws or regulations may impact or call into question the ACC’s permissive regulatory authority, which may result in uncertainty as to jurisdictional authority within our state, and uncertainty as to whether 33 ACC decisions will be binding or challenged by other agencies or bodies asserting jurisdiction.  In November 2021, the Arizona Court of Appeals issued an opinion that called into question the ACC-approved limitation of liability provision found in the APS Service Schedules.  APS sought review of the decision at the Arizona Supreme Court, which was denied; however, the Supreme Court depublished portions of the Court of Appeals’ decision.  APS is seeking revised tariff language to mitigate potential adverse impacts on APS’s future, potential litigation exposure which may result from this court decision.  We are unable to predict the impact on our business and operating results from any pending or future regulatory or legislative rulemaking. The operation of APS’s nuclear power plant exposes it to substantial regulatory oversight and potentially significant liabilities and capital expenditures. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose safety-related, security-related and other licensing requirements for the operation of nuclear generating facilities.  Events at nuclear facilities of other operators or impacting the industry generally may lead the NRC to impose additional requirements and regulations on all nuclear generating facilities, including Palo Verde.  In the event of noncompliance with its requirements, the NRC has the authority to impose a progressively increased inspection regime that could ultimately result in the shut-down of a unit or civil penalties, or both, depending upon the NRC’s assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved.  The increased costs resulting from penalties, a heightened level of scrutiny and implementation of plans to achieve compliance with NRC requirements may adversely affect APS’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. APS is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, and changes in, or liabilities under, existing or new laws or regulations may increase APS’s cost of operations or impact its business plans. APS is, or may become, subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of its present and future operations, including air emissions of conventional pollutants and GHGs, water quality, discharges of wastewater and waste streams originating from fly ash and bottom ash handling facilities, solid waste, hazardous waste, and coal combustion products, which consist of bottom ash, fly ash, and air pollution control wastes.  These laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating, and other costs, particularly with regard to enforcement efforts focused on power plant emissions obligations.  These laws and regulations generally require APS to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, and other approvals.  If there is a delay or failure to obtain any required environmental regulatory approval, or if APS fails to obtain, maintain, or comply with any such approval, operations at affected facilities could be suspended or subject to additional expenses.  In addition, failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could result in civil liability as a result of government enforcement actions or private claims or criminal penalties.  Both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations.  APS cannot predict the outcome (financial or operational) of any related litigation that may arise. Environmental Clean Up. APS has been named as a PRP for Superfund sites in Phoenix, Arizona, and it could be named a PRP in the future for other environmental clean-up at sites identified by a regulatory body.  APS cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean-up costs.  There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all PRPs. Coal Ash. In December 2014, the EPA issued final regulations governing the handling and disposal of CCR, which are generated as a result of burning coal and consist of, among other things, fly ash and bottom ash.  The rule regulates CCR as a non-hazardous waste.  APS currently disposes of CCR in ash ponds and dry storage areas at Cholla and Four Corners.  To the extent the rule requires the closure or modification of these CCR units, modification or changes to the manner of closure of such units, or the 34 construction of new CCR units beyond what we currently anticipate, APS would incur significant additional costs for CCR disposal.  In addition, the rule may also require corrective action to address releases from CCR disposal units or the presence of CCR constituents within groundwater near CCR disposal units above certain regulatory thresholds. Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards. In 2015, the EPA finalized revisions to the NAAQS for ozone, which set new, more stringent standards on emissions of nitrogen oxide, a precursor to ozone, in an effort to protect human health and human welfare.  Depending on the final attainment designations for the new standards and the state implementation requirements, APS may be required to invest in new pollution control technologies and to generate emission offsets for new projects or facility expansions located in ozone nonattainment areas.  In addition, the EPA may in the future further increase the stringency of various NAAQS, including for ozone or other pollutants, such as particulate matter.  With regard to even more stringent NAAQS requirements, additional control measures and compliance costs may become necessary for APS as well as its current and potential future customers. APS cannot assure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to it.  Revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs incurred by APS are not fully recoverable from APS’s customers, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.  Due to current or potential future regulations or legislation coupled with trends in natural gas and coal prices, or other clean energy rules or initiatives, the economics or feasibility of continuing to own certain resources, particularly coal facilities, may deteriorate, warranting early retirement of those plants, which may result in asset impairments.  APS would seek recovery in rates for the book value of any remaining investments in the plants as well as other costs related to early retirement but cannot predict whether it would obtain such recovery.  Such regulations may also act as a deterrent to future customer growth or create additional costs for existing customers, potentially slowing APS’s customer growth. APS faces potential financial risks resulting from climate change litigation and legislative and regulatory efforts to limit GHG emissions, as well as physical and operational risks related to climate effects. Concern over climate change has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit CO 2 , which is a major byproduct of the combustion of fossil fuel, and other GHG emissions. Potential Financial Risks — Greenhouse Gas Regulation, the Clean Power Plan and Potential Litigation. Following a U.S. Supreme Court decision on June 30, 2022, which substantially narrowed EPA’s authority to regulate power plant GHG emissions under the Clean Air Act, on May 23, 2023, EPA proposed new GHG emission standards for power plants.  In contrast to measures finalized in 2015, EPA’s May 2023 proposal is focused on limiting power plant GHG emissions through control mechanisms that can be implemented at individual power plant facilities.  These mechanisms would include carbon capture and sequestration, hydrogen co-firing, natural gas co-firing, and limits on facility output, among other measures.  EPA expects to take final action on this proposal in the spring or summer of 2024. Depending on the outcome of future carbon emission rulemaking under the Clean Air Act targeting new and existing power plants, the utility industry may become subject to more stringent and expansive regulations.  Depending on the means of compliance with federal emission performance standards, the electric utility industry may be forced to incur substantial costs necessary to achieve compliance.  In addition, we anticipate that such regulations will be challenged in federal court prior to their implementation.  Depending on the outcome of such judicial review, the utility industry may face alternative efforts from private parties seeking to establish alternative GHG emission limitations from power plants.  Alternative GHG emission limitations may arise from litigation under either federal or state 35 common laws or citizen suit provisions of federal environmental statutes that attempt to force federal agency rulemaking or impose direct facility emission limitations.  Such lawsuits may also seek damages from harm alleged to have resulted from power plant GHG emissions. Physical and Operational Risks. Weather extremes such as drought and high temperature variations are common occurrences in the southwestern United States’ desert area, and these are risks that APS considers in the normal course of business in the engineering and construction of its electric system.  Large increases in ambient temperatures could require evaluation of certain materials used within its system and may represent a greater challenge.  Limitations on water supplies necessary to operate electric generation infrastructure could arise from prolonged drought and shortage declarations associated with key surface water resources.  As part of conducting its business, APS recognizes that the southwestern United States is particularly susceptible to the risks posed by climate change, which over time is projected to exacerbate high temperature extremes and prolong drought in the area where APS conducts its business. Co-owners of our jointly owned generation and transmission facilities may have unaligned goals and positions due to the effects of legislation, regulations, economic conditions, or changes in our industry, which could have a significant impact on our ability to continue operations of such facilities. APS owns certain of its power plants and transmission facilities jointly with other owners, with varying ownership interests in such facilities.  Changes in the nature of our industry and the economic viability of certain plants and facilities, including impacts resulting from types and availability of other resources, fuel costs, legislation, and regulation, together with timing considerations related to the expiration of leases or other agreements for such facilities, could result in unaligned positions among co-owners.  Differences in the co-owners’ willingness or ability to continue their participation could lead to the eventual shut down of units or facilities and uncertainty related to the resulting cost recovery of such assets.  See Note 3 for a discussion of the Navajo Plant and Cholla retirement and the related risks associated with APS’s continued recovery of its remaining investment in the plant. Deregulation or restructuring of the electric industry may result in increased competition, which could have a significant adverse impact on APS’s business and its results of operations. In 1999, the ACC approved rules for the introduction of retail electric competition in Arizona.  Retail competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on APS due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins or increased costs of capital.  Although some very limited retail competition existed in APS’s service area in 1999 and 2000, there are currently no active retail competitors offering unbundled energy or other utility services to APS’s customers.  This is in large part due to a 2004 Arizona Court of Appeals decision that found critical components of the ACC’s rules to be violative of the Arizona Constitution.  The ruling also voided the operating authority of all the competitive providers previously authorized by the ACC.  On May 9, 2013, the ACC voted to re-examine the facilitation of a deregulated retail electric market in Arizona.  The ACC subsequently opened a docket for this matter and received comments from a number of interested parties on the considerations involved in establishing retail electric deregulation in the state.  One of these considerations is whether various aspects of a deregulated market, including setting utility rates on a “market” basis, would be consistent with the requirements of the Arizona Constitution.  On September 11, 2013, after receiving legal advice from the ACC staff, the ACC voted 4-1 to close the current docket and await full Arizona Constitutional authority before any further examination of this matter. In November 2018, the ACC voted to re-examine the facilitation of a deregulated retail electric market in Arizona.  On July 1 and July 2, 2019, ACC Staff issued a report and initial proposed draft rules regarding possible modifications to the ACC’s retail electric competition rules.  On February 10, 2020, two ACC Commissioners filed two sets of draft proposed retail electric competition rules.  On February 12, 2020, ACC Staff issued its second report regarding possible modifications to the ACC’s retail electric 36 competition rules.  During a July 15, 2020, ACC Staff meeting, the ACC Commissioners discussed the possible development of a retail competition pilot program, but no action was taken.  The ACC continues to discuss matters related to retail electric competition, including the potential for additional buy-through programs or other pilot programs.  In April 2022, the Arizona Legislature passed and the Governor signed a bill that repealed the electric deregulation law that had been in place in Arizona since 1998. OPERATIONAL RISKS APS’s results of operations can be adversely affected by various factors impacting demand for electricity. Weather Conditions. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and affect the price of energy commodities.  Electric power demand is generally a seasonal business.  In Arizona, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time.  As a result, APS’s overall operating results fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis.  In addition, APS has historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder.  As a result, unusually mild weather could diminish APS’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Apart from the impact on electricity demand, weather conditions related to prolonged high temperatures or extreme heat events present operational challenges.  In the southwestern United States, where APS conducts its business, the effects of climate change are projected to increase the overall average temperature, lead to more extreme temperature events, and exacerbate prolonged drought conditions leading to the declining availability of water resources.  Extreme heat events and rising temperatures are projected to reduce the generation capacity of thermal-power plants and decrease the efficiency of the transmission grid.  These operational risks related to rising temperatures and extreme heat events could affect APS’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Higher temperatures may decrease the snowpack, which might result in lowered soil moisture and an increased threat of forest fires.  Forest fires could threaten APS’s communities and electric transmission lines and facilities.  Any damage caused as a result of forest fires could negatively impact APS’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.  In addition, the decrease in snowpack can also lead to reduced water supplies in the areas where APS relies upon non-renewable water resources to supply cooling and process water for electricity generation.  Prolonged and extreme drought conditions can also affect APS’s long-term ability to access the water resources necessary for thermal electricity generation operations.  Reductions in the availability of water for power plant cooling could negatively impact APS’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Effects of Energy Conservation Measures and Distributed Energy Resources. APS customers in energy efficiency and conservation programs and other demand-side management efforts, which in turn impact the demand for electricity.  APS must also meet certain distributed renewable energy requirements.  A portion of APS’s total renewable energy requirement must be met with an increasing percentage of distributed renewable energy resources (generally, small-scale renewable technologies located on customers’ properties).  The distributed renewable energy requirement is 30% of the applicable RES requirement for 2012 and subsequent years (this requirement has been waived by the ACC for 2023).  Customer participation in distributed renewable energy programs would result in lower demand since customers would be meeting some of their own energy needs. In addition to these rules and requirements, energy efficiency technologies and distributed energy resources continue to evolve, which may have similar impacts on the demand for electricity.  Reduced demand due to these energy efficiency requirements, distributed energy requirements and other emerging technologies, unless substantially offset through ratemaking mechanisms, could have a material adverse impact on APS’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 37 Actual and Projected Customer and Sales Growth. Retail customers in APS’s service territory increased 2.0% for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared with the prior-year period.  For the three years through 2023, APS’s customer growth averaged 2.1% per year.  We currently project annual customer growth to be 1.5% to 2.5% for 2024 and the average annual growth to be in the range of 1.5% to 2.5% through 2026 based on anticipated steady population growth in Arizona during that period. Retail electricity sales in kWh, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations, increased 1.5% for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared with the prior-year period.  While steady customer growth was somewhat offset by weaker usage among residential customers, energy savings driven by customer conservation, energy efficiency, and distributed renewable generation initiatives, the main drivers of positive sales for this period were continued strong sales to commercial and industrial customers and the ramp-up of new data center customers. For the three years through 2023, annual retail electricity sales growth averaged 2.7%, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations.  Due to the expected growth of several large data centers and new large manufacturing facilities, we currently project that annual retail electricity sales in kWh will increase in the range of 2.0% to 4.0% for 2024 and that average annual growth will be in the range of 4.0% to 6.0% through 2026, including the effects of customer conservation, energy efficiency, and distributed renewable generation initiatives, but excluding the effects of weather variations.  These projected sales growth ranges include the impacts of several large data centers and new large manufacturing facilities, which are expected to contribute to 2024 growth in the range of 2.5% to 3.5% and to average annual growth in the range of 3.0% to 5.0% through 2026. Longer term, APS has been preparing for and can serve significant load growth from residential and business customers.  On top of these existing growth trends, APS is also now receiving unprecedented incremental requests for service from extra-large commercial energy users (over 25 MW) with very high energy demands that persist virtually around-the-clock.  These incremental requests for service by extra-large energy users far exceed available generation and transmission resource capacity in the Southwest region for the foreseeable future.  In April 2023, APS notified prospective extra-large customers without existing commitments from APS that it is not able to commit at this time to their future extra-large projects (over 25 MW).  Because of the high growth in demand for such projects, APS has developed a prioritization queue that identifies and prioritizes projects while maintaining system reliability and affordability for existing APS customers.  APS is exploring available options for securing sufficient electric generation and transmission to meet these projections of future customer needs. Actual sales growth, excluding weather-related variations, may differ from our projections as a result of numerous factors, such as economic conditions, customer growth, usage patterns and energy conservation, slower ramp-up of and/or fewer data centers and large manufacturing facilities, slower than expected commercial and industrial expansions, impacts of energy efficiency programs and growth in DG, responses to retail price changes,  changes in regulatory standards, and impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations.  Based on past experience, a 1% variation in our annual residential and small commercial and industrial kWh sales projections under normal business conditions can result in increases or decreases in annual net income of approximately $20 million, and a 1% variation in our annual large commercial and industrial kWh sales projections under normal business conditions can result in increases or decreases in annual net income of approximately $5 million. The operation of power generation facilities and transmission systems involves risks that could result in reduced output or unscheduled outages or could otherwise significantly impact APS’s results of operations . The operation of power generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves certain risks, including the risk of breakdown or failure of equipment, fuel interruption, and performance below expected 38 levels of output or efficiency.  Unscheduled outages, including extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other complications, occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of APS’s business.  Because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of our facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the larger transmission power grid, and the operation or failure of our facilities could adversely affect the operations of others.  Concerns over the physical security of these assets could include damage to certain of our facilities due to vandalism or other deliberate acts that could lead to outages or other adverse effects.  If APS’s facilities operate below expectations, especially during its peak seasons, it may lose revenue or incur additional expenses, including increased purchased power expenses. Additionally, as APS’s transmission infrastructure ages and its transmission system needs grow to support growth in our territory and in the Southwest, it will need to replace and expand certain portions of its transmission infrastructure, which requires significant investment of capital.  Risks related to the timely completion of and costs associated with these projects may be exacerbated by a constrained supply chain limiting the availability of necessary parts and materials as well as APS’s use, in some cases, of older, obsolete, or unsupported equipment.  Certain replacements and expansions of the transmission infrastructure will also require the acquisition or renewal of land leases, easements, or other rights-of-way that may require approvals from landowners, including individuals, governmental agencies, and, at times, tribal nations.  APS is unable to predict the outcomes of any pending or future required approvals, including any related costs, which could be significant.  If APS is unable to successfully manage the replacement and expansion of its transmission infrastructure, it could face increased equipment failures, power quality challenges, reputational impact, and financial loss. The impact of wildfires could negatively affect APS’s results of operations. Wildfires have the potential to affect communities within APS’s service territory and the surrounding areas, as well as APS’s vast network of electric transmission and distribution lines and facilities.  The potential likelihood of wildfires has increased due to many of the same weather and climate change impacts existing in Arizona as those that led to catastrophic wildfires in California.  The continued expansion of the wildland urban interface has also increased wildfire risk to surrounding communities.  APS currently intends to implement a public safety power shutoff (“PSPS”) program in addition to its current fire mitigation efforts.  While such technology is intended to mitigate fire risk, it also introduces additional risks to APS and its customers, such as claims for damages, and the timing and effectiveness of such fire mitigation efforts may be insufficient to prevent wildfires in APS’s expansive service territory and surrounding areas.  APS could be held liable for damages incurred as a result of wildfires regardless of fault and may not be able to recover all or a substantial portion of any such damages or costs from insurance or through rates.  In addition, we could also experience credit rating downgrades, reputational harm, volatility in the market for our common stock, and significant financial distress upon the occurrence of a wildfire event.  Furthermore, any damage caused to our assets, loss of service to our customers, or liability imposed as a result of wildfires could negatively impact APS’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. The inability to successfully develop, acquire or operate generation resources to meet future resource needs and load forecasts in accordance with reliability requirements and other new or evolving standards and regulations could adversely impact our business. Potential changes in regulatory standards, impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, and the need to obtain various regulatory approvals create uncertainty surrounding our current and future generation portfolio.  The current regulatory standards, laws, and regulations create strategic challenges as to the appropriate generation portfolio and fuel diversification mix.  In addition, APS is required by the ACC to meet certain energy resource portfolio 39 requirements, including those related to renewables development and energy efficiency measures, in addition to specific competitive resource procurement requirements.  The development and operation of any generation facility is also subject to many risks, including those related to financing, siting, permitting, new and evolving technology, extreme weather events, workforce issues, cybersecurity attacks, supply chain constraints for critical spare parts, and the construction of sufficient transmission capacity to support these facilities among others.  APS needs to develop or acquire new generation facilities, potentially modernize existing facilities, and/or contract for additional capacity in order to meet future resource needs and load forecasts.  APS’s inability to do so could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. In expressing concerns about the environmental and climate-related impacts from continued extraction, transportation, delivery and combustion of fossil fuels, environmental advocacy groups and other third parties have in recent years undertaken greater efforts to oppose the permitting, construction, and operation of fossil fuel infrastructure projects.  These efforts may increase in scope and frequency depending on a number of variables, including the future course of Federal environmental regulation and the increasing financial resources devoted to these opposition activities.  APS cannot predict the effect that any such opposition may have on our ability to develop, construct, and operate fossil fuel infrastructure projects in the future. In January 2020, APS announced its goal to provide 100% clean, carbon-free electricity by 2050 with an intermediate 2030 target of achieving a resource mix that is 65% clean energy, with 45% of the generation portfolio coming from renewable energy.  APS’s ability to successfully execute its clean energy commitment is dependent upon a number of external factors, some of which include supportive national and state energy policies, a supportive regulatory environment, sales and customer growth, the development, deployment and advancement of clean energy technologies, adequate supply chain for generation resources, and continued access to capital markets. The lack of access to sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on APS’s business and results of operations. Assured supplies of water are important for APS’s generating plants.  Water in the southwestern United States is limited, and various parties have made conflicting claims regarding the right to access and use such limited supplies of water.  Both groundwater and surface water in areas important to the operation of APS’s generating plants have been and are the subject of inquiries, claims and legal proceedings.  In addition, the region in which APS’s power plants are located suffers from prolonged drought conditions, which could potentially affect the plants’ water supplies.  Climate change is also projected to exacerbate such drought conditions.  In addition, Colorado River water supplies for Arizona are subject to a Tier 1 shortage declaration, which substantially limits the quantity of water available for the state.  APS’s inability to access sufficient supplies of water, along with that of its customers, could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We are subject to cybersecurity risks and risks of unauthorized access to our systems that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. We operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure.  In the regular course of our business, we handle a range of sensitive security, customer, and business systems information.  There appears to be an increasing level of activity, sophistication, and maturity of threat actors, including from both nation-state and non-nation state actors, that seek to exploit potential vulnerabilities in the electric utility industry and wish to disrupt the U.S. bulk power system, our information technology systems, generation (including our Palo Verde nuclear facility), transmission and distribution facilities, and other infrastructure facilities and 40 systems and physical assets.  We have been and could be the target of attacks, and the aforementioned systems are critical areas of cyber protection for us. We rely extensively on IT systems, networks, and services, including internet sites, data hosting and processing facilities, and other hardware, software and technical applications and platforms.  Some of these systems are managed, hosted, provided, or used by third parties to assist in conducting our business.  Malicious actors may attack vendors to disrupt the services these vendors provide to us or to use those vendors as a cyber conduit to attack us.  As more third parties are involved in the operation of our business, there is a risk the confidentiality, integrity, privacy, or security of data held by, or accessible to, third parties may be compromised. If a significant cybersecurity event or breach were to occur, we may not be able to fulfill critical business functions and we could (i) experience property damage, disruptions to our business, theft of or unauthorized access to customer, employee, financial or system operation information or other information; (ii) experience loss of revenue or incur significant costs for repair, remediation and breach notification, and increased capital and operating costs to implement increased security measures; and (iii) be subject to increased regulation, litigation and reputational damage.  If such disruptions or breaches are not detected quickly, their effects could be compounded or could delay our response or the effectiveness of our response and ability to limit our exposure to potential liability.  These types of events would also require significant management attention and resources and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. We develop and maintain systems and processes aimed at detecting and preventing information and cybersecurity incidents which require significant investment, maintenance, and ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies and regulatory requirements change.  These systems and processes may be insufficient to mitigate the possibility of cybersecurity incidents, malicious social engineering, fraudulent or other malicious activities, and human error or malfeasance in the safeguarding of our data. We are subject to laws and rules issued by multiple government agencies concerning safeguarding and maintaining the confidentiality of our security, customer information and business information.  One of these agencies, NERC, has issued comprehensive regulations and standards surrounding the security of bulk power systems, and is continually in the process of developing updated and additional requirements with which the utility industry must comply.  The NRC also has issued regulations and standards related to the protection of critical digital assets at commercial nuclear power plants.  The increasing promulgation of NERC and NRC rules and standards will increase our compliance costs and our exposure to the potential risk of violations of the standards.  Experiencing a cybersecurity incident could cause us to be non-compliant with applicable laws and regulations, such as those promulgated by NERC and the NRC, privacy laws, or contracts that require us to securely maintain confidential data, causing us to incur costs related to legal claims or proceedings and regulatory fines or penalties. The risk of these system-related events and security breaches occurring continues to intensify.  We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, threats and attempted intrusions to our information technology systems and we could experience such threats and attempted intrusions to our operational control systems.  To date, we do not believe we have experienced a material breach or disruption to our network or information systems or our service operations.  We may not be able to anticipate and prevent all cyberattacks or information security breaches, and our ongoing investments in security resources, talent, and business practices may not be effective against all threat actors. We maintain cyber insurance to provide coverage for a portion of the losses and damages that may result from a security breach of our information technology systems, but such insurance is subject to a number of exclusions and may not cover the total loss or damage caused by a breach.  Coverage for cybersecurity events continues to evolve as the industry matures.  In the future, adequate insurance may not 41 be available at rates that we believe are reasonable, and the costs of responding to and recovering from a cyber incident may not be covered by insurance or recoverable in rates. There are inherent risks in the ownership and operation of nuclear facilities, such as environmental, health, fuel supply, spent fuel disposal, regulatory and financial risks and the risk of terrorist attack that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. APS has an ownership interest in and operates on behalf of a group of participants, Palo Verde, which is the largest nuclear electric generating facility in the United States.  Palo Verde constitutes approximately 18% of APS’s owned and leased generation capacity.  Palo Verde is subject to environmental, health and financial risks, such as the ability to obtain adequate supplies of nuclear fuel; the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel; the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning; potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities; the costs of securing the facilities against possible terrorist attacks; and unscheduled outages due to equipment and other problems.  APS maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds and external insurance coverage to minimize its financial exposure to some of these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage.  APS may be required under federal law to pay up to $144.9 million (but not more than $21.6 million per year) of liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident not only at Palo Verde, but at any other nuclear power plant in the United States.  In addition, APS is subject to retrospective premium adjustments under its nuclear property insurance policies with Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (“NEIL”) for approximately $22.4 million if NEIL’s losses in any policy year exceed accumulated funds and if the retrospective premium assessment is declared by NEIL’s Board of Directors.  Although APS has no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at Palo Verde, if an incident did occur, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit and to promulgate new regulations that could require significant capital expenditures and/or increase operating costs. Changes in technology could create challenges for APS’s existing business. Alternative energy technologies that produce power or reduce power consumption or emissions are being developed and commercialized, including renewable technologies such as photovoltaic (solar) cells, customer-sited generation, energy storage (batteries) and efficiency technologies.  Advances in technology and equipment/appliance efficiency could reduce the demand for supply from conventional generation, including carbon-free nuclear generation, and increase the complexity of managing APS’s information technology and power system operations, which could adversely affect APS’s business. Customer-sited alternative energy technologies present challenges to APS’s operations due to misalignment with APS’s existing operational needs.  When these resources lack “dispatchability” and other elements of utility-side control, they are considered “unmanaged” resources.  The cumulative effect of such unmanaged resources results in added complexity for APS’s system management. APS continues to pursue and implement advanced grid technologies, including transmission and distribution system technologies and digital meters enabling two-way communications between the utility and its customers.  Many of the products and processes resulting from these and other alternative technologies, including energy storage technologies, have not yet been widely used or tested on a long-term basis, and their use on large-scale systems is not as established or mature as APS’s existing technologies and equipment.  The implementation of new and additional technologies adds complexity to our information technology and operational technology systems, which could require additional infrastructure and resources.  Widespread installation and acceptance of new technologies could also enable the entry of new market participants, such as technology companies, into the interface between APS and its customers and could have other unpredictable effects on APS’s traditional business model. 42 Deployment of renewable energy technologies is expected to continue across the western states and result in a larger portion of the overall energy production coming from these sources.  These trends, which have benefited from historical and continuing government support for certain technologies, have the potential to put downward pressure on wholesale power prices throughout the western states which could make APS’s existing generating facilities less economical and impact their operational patterns and long-term viability. We are subject to employee workforce factors that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Like many companies in the electric utility industry, our workforce is maturing, with approximately 28% of employees eligible to retire by the end of 2028.  Although we have undertaken efforts to recruit, train and develop new employees, we face increased competition for talent.  We are subject to other employee workforce factors, such as the availability and retention of qualified personnel and the need to negotiate collective bargaining agreements with union employees.  These or other employee workforce factors could negatively impact our business, financial condition, or results of operations. FINANCIAL RISKS A downgrade of our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our current ratings are set forth in “Liquidity and Capital Resources — Credit Ratings” in Item 7.  We cannot be sure that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant.  Any downgrade or withdrawal could adversely affect the market price of Pinnacle West’s and APS’s securities, limit our access to capital and increase our borrowing costs, which would adversely impact our financial results.  We could be required to pay a higher interest rate for future financings, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease.  In addition, borrowing costs under our existing credit facilities depend on our credit ratings.  A downgrade could also require us to provide additional support in the form of letters of credit or cash or other collateral to various counterparties.  If our short-term ratings were to be lowered, it could severely limit access to the commercial paper market.  We note that the ratings from rating agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities and that each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Investment performance, changing interest rates, new rules or regulations and other economic, social, and political factors could decrease the value of our benefit plan assets, nuclear decommissioning trust funds and other special use funds or increase the valuation of our related obligations, resulting in significant additional funding requirements.  We are also subject to risks related to the provision of employee healthcare benefits and healthcare reform legislation.  Any inability to fully recover these costs in our utility rates would negatively impact our financial condition. We have significant pension plan and other postretirement benefits plan obligations to our employees and retirees, and legal obligations to fund our pension trust and nuclear decommissioning trusts for Palo Verde.  We hold and invest substantial assets in these trusts that are designed to provide funds to pay for certain of these obligations as they arise.  Declines in market values of the fixed income and equity securities held in these trusts may increase our funding requirements for the related trusts.  Additionally, the valuation of liabilities related to our pension plan and other postretirement benefit plans are impacted by a discount rate, which is the interest rate used to discount future pension and other postretirement benefit obligations.  Changes in interest rates impact the discount rate and valuation of the plan liabilities, and may result in increases in pension and other postretirement benefit costs, cash contributions, regulatory assets, and charges to OCI.  Changes in demographics, including increased number of retirements or 43 changes in life expectancy and changes in other actuarial assumptions, may also result in similar impacts.  The minimum contributions required under these plans are impacted by federal legislation and related regulations.  Increasing liabilities or otherwise increasing funding requirements under these plans, resulting from adverse changes in legislation or otherwise, could result in significant cash funding obligations that could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. We recover most of the pension and other postretirement benefit expense and all of the currently estimated nuclear decommissioning costs in our regulated rates.  Any inability to fully recover these costs in a timely manner could have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Pending or future federal or state legislative or regulatory activity or court proceedings could increase the costs of providing medical insurance for our employees and retirees.  Any potential changes and resulting cost impacts cannot be determined with certainty at this time. Our cash flow depends on the performance of APS and its ability to make distributions. We derive essentially all of our revenues and earnings from our wholly-owned subsidiary, APS.  Accordingly, our cash flow and our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is dependent upon the earnings and cash flows of APS and its distributions to us.  APS is a separate and distinct legal entity and has no obligation to make distributions to us. APS’s financing agreements may restrict its ability to pay dividends, make distributions or otherwise transfer funds to us.  In addition, an ACC financing order requires APS to maintain a common equity ratio of at least 40% and does not allow APS to pay common dividends if the payment would reduce its common equity below that threshold.  The common equity ratio, as defined in the ACC order, is total shareholder equity divided by the sum of total shareholder equity and long-term debt, including current maturities of long-term debt. Pinnacle West’s ability to meet its debt service obligations could be adversely affected because its debt securities are structurally subordinated to the debt securities and other obligations of its subsidiaries. Because Pinnacle West is structured as a holding company, all existing and future debt and other liabilities of its subsidiaries will be effectively senior in right of payment to its own debt securities.  The assets and cash flows of our subsidiaries will be available, in the first instance, to service their own debt and other obligations.  Our ability to have the benefit of their cash flows, particularly in the case of any insolvency or financial distress affecting our subsidiaries, would arise only through our equity ownership interests in our subsidiaries and only after their creditors have been satisfied. The use of derivative contracts in the normal course of our business could result in financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. APS’s operations include managing market risks related to commodity prices.  APS is exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas, and coal to the extent that unhedged positions exist.  We have established procedures to manage risks associated with these market fluctuations by utilizing various commodity derivatives, including exchange traded futures and over-the-counter (“OTC”) forwards, options, and swaps.  As part of our overall risk management program, we enter into derivative transactions to hedge purchases and sales of electricity and natural gas.  The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged commodity.  To the extent that commodity markets are illiquid, we may not be able to execute our risk management strategies, which could result in greater unhedged positions than we would prefer at a given time and financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. 44 The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”) contains measures aimed at increasing the transparency and stability of the over-the-counter derivative markets and preventing excessive speculation.  The Dodd-Frank Act could restrict, among other things, trading positions in the energy futures markets, require different collateral or settlement positions, or increase regulatory reporting over derivative positions.  Based on the provisions included in the Dodd-Frank Act and the implementation of regulations, these changes could, among other things, impact our ability to hedge commodity price and interest rate risk or increase the costs associated with our hedging programs. We are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance or nonpayment by counterparties.  We use a risk management process to assess and monitor the financial exposure of all counterparties.  Despite the fact that the majority of APS’s trading counterparties are rated as investment grade by the rating agencies, there is still a possibility that one or more of these companies could default, which could result in a material adverse impact on our earnings for a given period. GENERAL RISKS Proposals to change policy in Arizona or other states made through ballot initiatives or referenda may increase the Company’s cost of operations or impact its business plans. In Arizona and other states, a person or organization may file a ballot initiative or referendum with the Arizona Secretary of State or other applicable state agency and, if a sufficient number of verifiable signatures are presented, the initiative or referendum may be placed on the ballot for the public to vote on the matter.  Ballot initiatives and referenda may relate to any matter, including policy and regulation related to the electric industry, and may change statutes or the state constitution in ways that could impact Arizona utility customers, the Arizona economy, and the Company.  Some ballot initiatives and referenda are drafted in an unclear manner and their potential industry and economic impact can be subject to varied and conflicting interpretations.  We may oppose certain initiatives or referenda (including those that could result in negative impacts to our customers, the state, or the Company) via the electoral process, litigation, traditional legislative mechanisms, agency rulemaking or otherwise, which could result in significant costs to the Company.  The passage of certain initiatives or referenda could result in laws and regulations that impact our business plans and have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. General economic conditions could materially affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. General economic factors that are beyond the Company’s control impact the Company’s forecasts and actual performance.  These factors include interest rates; recession; inflation; stagflation; deflation; supply chain constraints; unemployment trends; sanctions, trade restrictions, military interventions and the threat or possibility of war; terrorism or other global or national unrest; and political or financial instability. In particular, from 2021 to 2023, the United States’ economy has experienced a substantial rise in the inflation rate.  There is increased uncertainty as to whether the rise in inflation will continue and for how long.  Increases in inflation raise the Company’s costs for commodities, labor, materials and services. Additionally, global supply chains have been impacted, resulting in equipment delays and increased costs.  A failure to recover the increased costs caused by increased inflation and supply chain constraints through our rates could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 45 The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: • variations in our quarterly operating results; • operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts, and investors; • changes in expectations as to future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; • developments generally affecting industries in which we operate; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures, or capital commitments; • announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; • favorable or adverse regulatory or legislative developments; • our dividend policy; • change in our management; • future sales by the Company of equity or equity-linked securities; and • general domestic and international economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company.  These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Financial market disruptions or new rules or regulations may increase our financing costs or limit our access to various financial markets, which may adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to implement our financial strategy. Pinnacle West and APS rely on access to credit markets as a significant source of liquidity and the capital markets for capital requirements not satisfied by cash flow from our operations.  We believe that we will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets.  However, certain market disruptions or revisions to rules or regulations may cause our cost of borrowing to increase generally, and/or otherwise adversely affect our ability to access these financial markets. In addition, the credit commitments of our lenders under our bank facilities may not be satisfied or continued beyond current commitment periods for a variety of reasons, including new rules and regulations, changes to the internal policies of our lenders, periods of financial distress or liquidity issues affecting our lenders or financial markets, which could materially adversely affect the adequacy of our liquidity sources and/or the cost of maintaining these sources. Changes in economic conditions, monetary policy, fiscal policy, financial regulation, rating agency treatment and/or other factors could result in higher interest rates, which would increase interest expense on our existing variable rate debt and new debt we expect to issue in the future, and thus increase the cost and/or reduce the amount of funds available to us for our current plans. 46 Additionally, an increase in our leverage, whether as a result of these factors or otherwise, could adversely affect us by: • causing a downgrade of our credit ratings; • increasing the cost of future debt financing and refinancing; • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; and • requiring us to dedicate an increased portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce funds available to us for operations, future investment in our business or other purposes. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and of Arizona law make it difficult for shareholders to change the composition of our board and may discourage takeover attempts. These provisions, which could preclude our shareholders from receiving a change of control premium, include the following: • restrictions on our ability to engage in a wide range of “business combination” transactions with an “interested shareholder” (generally, any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of our outstanding voting power, or any of our affiliates or associates who beneficially owned 10% or more of our outstanding voting power at any time during the prior three years) or any affiliate or associate of an interested shareholder, unless specific conditions are met; • anti-greenmail provisions of Arizona law and our bylaws that prohibit us from purchasing shares of our voting stock from beneficial owners of more than 5% of our outstanding shares unless specified conditions are satisfied; • the ability of the Board of Directors to increase the size of and fill vacancies on the Board of Directors, whether resulting from such increase, or from death, resignation, disqualification or otherwise; • the ability of our Board of Directors to issue additional shares of common stock and shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and, with respect to preferred stock, the other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without shareholder approval; • restrictions that limit the rights of our shareholders to call a special meeting of shareholders; and • restrictions regarding the rights of our shareholders to nominate directors or to submit proposals to be considered at shareholder meetings. While these provisions may have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of us to negotiate with our Board of Directors, they could enable the Board of Directors to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of our shareholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This report contains forward-looking statements which include but are not limited to predictions, future guidance, projections, beliefs, and expectations about the company’s trends, seasonality, cyclicality and growth in, and drivers of, the markets we sell into, our strategic direction, earnings from our foreign subsidiaries, remediation activities, new solution and service introductions, the ability of our solutions to meet market needs, changes to our manufacturing processes, the use of contract manufacturers, the impact of government regulations on our ability to conduct operations, our liquidity position, our ability to generate cash from operations, growth in our businesses, our investments, the potential impact of adopting new accounting pronouncements, our financial results, our purchase commitments, our contributions to our pension plans, the selection of discount rates and recognition of any gains or losses for our benefit plans, our cost-control activities, savings and headcount reduction recognized from our restructuring programs and other cost saving initiatives, and other regulatory approvals, the integration of our completed acquisitions and other transactions, and our transition to lower-cost regions. The forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause Keysight’s results to differ materially from management’s current expectations. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the impact of global economic conditions such as inflation or potential recession, slowing demand for products or services, volatility in financial markets, reduced access to credit, increased interest rates, the existence of political or economic instability, uncertainty related to the impact of national elections results in the U.S. and UK, impacts of geopolitical tension and conflict in regions outside of the U.S., the impacts of increased trade tension and tightening of export control regulations, the impact of new and ongoing litigation, impacts related to net zero emissions commitments, and the impact of volatile weather caused by environmental conditions such as climate change. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to various factors, including but not limited to those risks and uncertainties discussed in Part I Item 1A and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Overview and Executive Summary Keysight Technologies, Inc. (“we,” “us,” “Keysight” or the “company”), incorporated in Delaware on December 6, 2013, is a global innovator in the computing, communications and electronics market, committed to advancing our customers’ business success by helping them solve critical challenges in the development and commercialization of their products and services. Our mission, “accelerating innovation to connect and secure the world,” speaks to the value we provide our customers in a world of ever-increasing technological complexity. We deliver this value through a broad range of design and test solutions that address the critical challenges our customers face in bringing their innovations to market on ever-shorter schedules. Our fiscal year end is October 31. Unless otherwise stated, all years and dates refer to our fiscal year. Acquisition of ESI Group SA In the first quarter of fiscal 2024, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of ESI Group SA (“ESI Group”) for $935 million, net of cash acquired, using existing cash. For the year ended October 31, 2024, our acquisition of ESI Group resulted in incremental revenue of $141 million. In our discussion of changes in our results of operations, we have qualitatively disclosed the impact of the ESI Group acquisition. See Note 2, “Acquisitions,” for additional information. Macroeconomic environment Our global operations continued to be affected by a challenging macro environment, including higher interest rates, currency movements, inflationary pressures, geopolitical tensions and trade restrictions. These factors resulted in lower demand, as our customers also exercised caution in light of the same environment. Against this backdrop, we remained operationally disciplined by exercising our financial playbook and the structural flexibility in our operating model, while investing to expand our differentiated solutions portfolio and deepening our customer relationships. Consistent with the Keysight Leadership Model, our differentiated first-to-market solutions portfolio, technology leadership, customer relationships, and durable and resilient business model give us confidence in the long-term trajectory of the business and our ability to outperform in a variety of market conditions and deliver consistent long-term value to our customers. For discussion of risks related to potential impacts of macroeconomic headwinds and geopolitical challenges on our operations, business results and financial condition, see Part I Item 1A “Risk Factors.” 35 Years ended October 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022 Orders were $5,033 million, $5,190 million, and $5,984 million in 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Orders of $5,033 million for 2024 decreased 3 percent compared to 2023. Acquisitions had a favorable impact of 4 percentage points on the order change for 2024 compared to 2023. Foreign currency movements had an immaterial impact on the order change for 2024 compared to 2023. Orders declined in the Americas and Asia Pacific, while Europe was flat. Orders of $5,190 million for 2023 decreased 13 percent compared to 2022. Foreign currency movements had an unfavorable impact of 1 percentage point on the order change for 2023 compared to 2022. Orders declined across all regions, including a double-digit decline in Asia Pacific. Revenue was $4,979 million, $5,464 million, and $5,420 million in 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Revenue of $4,979 million for 2024 decreased 9 percent compared to 2023. Acquisitions had a favorable impact of 3 percentage points on the revenue change for 2024 compared to 2023. Foreign currency movements had an immaterial impact on the revenue change for 2024 compared to 2023. Revenue declined in both the Communications Solutions Group (“CSG”) and the Electronic Industrial Solutions Group (“EISG”). Revenue from CSG and EISG represented approximately 69 percent and 31 percent, respectively, of total revenue for 2024. Revenue of $5,464 million for 2023 increased 1 percent compared to 2022. Foreign currency movements had an unfavorable impact of 2 percentage points on the revenue growth for 2023 compared to 2022. A revenue increase in EISG was partially offset by a decline in CSG. Revenue from CSG and EISG represented approximately 67 percent and 33 percent, respectively, of total revenue for 2023. Net income was $614 million, $1,057 million, and $1,124 million in 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Net income of $614 million for 2024 decreased 42 percent compared to 2023, primarily driven by lower revenue, higher acquisition and integration costs, restructuring costs and amortization of acquisition-related balances, partially offset by lower provision for income taxes, favorable gross margin impact from the ESI Group acquisition and lower people-related costs. Net income of $1,057 million for 2023 decreased 6 percent compared to 2022, primarily driven by higher income tax expense, R&D expense, and selling, general and administrative expense, partially offset by higher interest income, higher revenue, and favorable mix. Cash flows generated from operating activities were $1,052 million, $1,408 million, and $1,144 million in 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Outlook Our first-to-market solutions strategy enables customers to develop new technologies and accelerate innovation and provides a platform for Keysight's long-term growth. Our customers are expected to continue to make R&D investments in certain next-generation technologies and applications, including evolution of 5G, early 6G, high-speed data center networks and infrastructure, satellite networks, Artificial Intelligence (“AI”), next generation electric vehicles and autonomous vehicles, industrial internet of things (“IoT”), and defense modernization. We continue to engage actively with our customers, and closely monitor the current macroeconomic environment, including trade, tariffs, monetary and fiscal policies and geopolitical tensions. We remain confident in the long-term secular growth trends of our markets and our ability to outperform in a variety of market conditions. Currency Exchange Rate Exposure Our revenues, costs and expenses, and monetary assets and liabilities are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our global operating, investing and financing activities. We hedge revenues, expenses, and balance sheet exposures that are not denominated in the functional currencies of our subsidiaries on a short-term and anticipated basis. The result of hedging has been included in our consolidated balance sheet and consolidated statement of operations. We experience some fluctuations within individual lines of the consolidated balance sheet and consolidated statement of operations because our hedging program is not designed to offset the currency movements in each category of revenues, expenses, and monetary assets and liabilities. Our cash flow hedging program is designed to hedge short-term currency movements based on a rolling period of up to twelve months. Therefore, we are exposed to currency fluctuations over the longer term. To the extent that we are required to pay for all, or portions, of an acquisition price in foreign currencies, we may enter into foreign exchange contracts to reduce the risk that currency movements will impact the U.S. dollar cost of the transaction. 36 Results from Operations - Years ended October 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022 A summary of our results is as follows: Revenue Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of the promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services. Returns are recorded in the period received from the customer and historically have not been material. The following table provides the percent change in revenue for 2024 and 2023 by geographic region and the impact of foreign currency movements compared to the respective prior year. Gross Margin, Operating Margin and Income Before Taxes Gross margin decreased 2 percentage points in 2024 compared to 2023, primarily driven by lower revenue volume, higher amortization of acquisition-related balances and higher restructuring costs , partially offset by lower material costs, favorable gross margin impact from the ESI Group acquisition a nd lower variable people-related costs. Gross margin increased 1 percentage point in 2023 compared to 2022, primarily driven by price increases and favorable mix, partially offset by higher warranty costs. 37 Excess and obsolete inventory charges were $35 million in 2024, $27 million in 2023, and $27 million in 2022. R&D expense increased 4 percent in 2024 compared to 2023, primarily driven by incremental costs from acquired businesses, parti ally offset by lower variable people-related costs. We continued to prudently prioritize investments in key growth opportunities in our end markets and leading-edge technologies. R&D expense increased 5 percent in 2023 compared to 2022, primarily driven by investments in key growth opportunities, partially offset by lower variable people-related costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 7 percent in 2024 compared to 2023, primarily driven by higher acquisition and integration costs, incremental costs from acquired businesses, higher amortization of acquisition-related balances, partially offset by lower people-related, marketing, and infrastructure costs resulting from the flexibility of our operating model and cost efficiency measures. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 2 percent in 2023 compared to 2022, primarily driven by higher infrastructure-related, restructuring, and travel-related costs, partially offset by lower sales commission and variable people-related costs. Other operating expense (income) was income of $14 million, $15 million, and $8 million for 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively, and primarily include property rental income. During fiscal year 2022, other operating expense (income) included asset impairment charges of $7 million related to the discontinuance of our Russia operations. Operating margin decreased 8 percentage points in 2024 compared to 2023, primarily driven by higher selling, general and administrative and R&D expenses on lower revenue coupled with gross margin declines. Operating margin was flat in 2023 compared to 2022, primarily driven by gross margin gains offset by higher R&D expenses as a percentage of sales. Interest income for 2024, 2023 and 2022 was $81 million, $102 million, and $16 million, respectively, and primarily related to interest earned on our cash balances. The decline in interest income in fiscal 2024 compared to 2023 was primarily driven by decline in year-over-year cash balances. The increase in interest income in fiscal 2023 compared to 2022 was primarily driven by an increase in interest rates and higher year-over-year cash balances. Interest expense for 2024, 2023 and 2022 was $84 million, $78 million, and $79 million, respectively, and primarily related to interest on our senior notes. Interest expense for 2024, included amortization of debt issuance costs of $4 million related to the bridge credit agreement. See Note 9, “Derivatives,” and Note 11,”Debt,” for additional information. Other income (expense) for 2024, 2023 and 2022 was income of $35 million, expense of $25 million, and income of $14 million, respectively, and primarily include net income related to our defined benefit and post-retirement benefit plans (interest cost, expected return on assets, amortization of net actuarial loss and prior service credits, and gains (losses) on settlements and curtailments), gains (losses) due to currency and derivative instruments, and the change in fair value of our equity investments. The increase in net other income for 2024 compared to 2023 was primarily driven by gains on derivative instruments and higher net gains on our equity investments, partially offset by an increase in pension costs due to higher interest cost on benefit obligations. The increase in net other expense for 2023 compared to 2022 was primarily driven by losses on derivative instruments and higher amortization of net actuarial losses, partially offset by net gains on our equity investments. Our headcount was approximately 15,500 as of October 31, 2024, compared to approximately 14,900 as of October 31, 2023. The increase was primarily driven by acquisitions, partially offset by reductions from our cost efficiency measures. Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 29 percent, 22 percent, and 13 percent for 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The tax rate in 2024 was higher than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to a one-time income tax charge of $315 million required to adjust Singapore deferred tax asset values to an incentive tax rate. Keysight entered into a new Singapore tax incentive agreement effective August 1, 2024. The Singapore tax incentive provides lower rates of taxation on certain classes of income and requires thresholds of investments and employment. The 2024 income tax charge was partially offset by a one-time income tax benefit of $165 million related to Global Intangible Low Taxed Income (“GILTI”) tax deductions for intangible asset amortization. Keysight concluded that the U.S. Department of the Treasury exceeded its regulatory authority in issuing tax regulations disallowing these deductions under IRC § 951A. The company amended its U.S. federal income tax returns for the open tax years to claim GILTI tax deductions. The 38 tax receivable resulting from the amended returns is reflected in “other assets” and “other current assets” in the consolidated balance sheet. The annual tax impact of the amortization of the intangible assets will continue to be recognized until 2033. The company believes the position meets the more likely than not recognition threshold and intends to vigorously defend its position. The outcome cannot be predicted with certainty. If we are ultimately unsuccessful in defending our position, we may be required to reverse the benefit previously recorded. The 2024 income tax charge was also partially offset by a one-time income tax benefit of $61 million for the release of tax reserves related to the successful appeal of a Malaysia income tax assessment. In the fourth quarter of 2017, Keysight was assessed and paid income tax and penalties in Malaysia on gains related to the transfer of intellectual property rights and recorded a tax reserve on the assessed amount. The Court of Appeal in Malaysia ruled in Keysight’s favor on May 24, 2024, and the company received a refund of the income tax and penalties. The 7 percentage point increase in the effective tax rate from 2023 to 2024 was primarily due to these one-time income tax items in 2024. The tax rate in 2023 was higher than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to the impact of U.S. tax capitalization of research and experimental expenditures, partially offset by the net impact from the proportion of worldwide earnings taxed at lower statutory tax rates in non-U.S. jurisdictions and the U.S. tax imposed on those non-U.S. earnings. The tax rate in 2022 was lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to the proportion of worldwide earnings that are taxed at lower statutory tax rates in non-U.S. jurisdictions, partially offset by U.S. tax imposed on earnings in non-U.S. jurisdictions. The increase in the effective tax rate of 9 percent from 2022 to 2023 was primarily due to a 5 percent increase from U.S. tax capitalization of research and experimental expenditures in 2023. Keysight benefits from tax incentives in several jurisdictions, most significantly in Singapore and Malaysia. The tax incentives provide lower rates of taxation on certain classes of income and require thresholds of investments and employment in those jurisdictions. The Malaysia tax incentive expires October 31, 2025. The Singapore tax incentive expires July 31, 2029. The open tax years for the U.S. federal income tax return and most state income tax returns are from November 1, 2019 through the current tax year. For the majority of our non-U.S. entities, the open tax years are from November 1, 2019 through the current tax year. At this time, management does not believe that the outcome of any future or currently ongoing examination will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. We believe that we have an adequate provision for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome of tax examinations cannot be predicted with certainty. Given the numerous tax years and matters that remain subject to examination in various tax jurisdictions, the ultimate resolution of current and future tax examinations could be inconsistent with management’s current expectations. If that were to occur, it could have an impact on our effective tax rate in the period in which such examinations are resolved. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves uncertainties in the application of complex tax law and regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions. Although the guidance on the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes prescribes the use of a recognition and measurement model, the determination of whether an uncertain tax position has met those thresholds requires significant judgment by management. In accordance with the guidance on the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, for all U.S. and other tax jurisdictions, we recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest will be due. We include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax positions within the provision for income taxes in the consolidated statements of operations. Accrued interest and penalties are included on the related tax liability line in the consolidated balance sheet. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and various other countries globally. Changes in tax law, tax rates, or in the composition of earnings in countries with differing tax rates may affect deferred tax assets and liabilities recorded and our future effective tax rate. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (“OECD”) reached agreement among various countries to implement a minimum 15 percent tax rate on certain multinational enterprises, commonly referred to as Pillar Two. Numerous countries have enacted legislation to adopt the Pillar Two model rules. A subset of the rules will be effective for Keysight as of November 1, 2024, with the remaining rules effective as of November 1, 2025. Keysight continues to analyze the Pillar Two model rules and monitor developments. Pillar Two could have a material impact on our effective tax rate in fiscal year 2025, primarily offsetting the reduction to our effective income tax rate from our tax incentives. We do not recognize deferred taxes for temporary differences expected to impact the GILTI tax expense in future years. We recognize the tax expense related to GILTI in each year in which the tax is incurred. 39 Segment Overview We have two reportable operating segments, CSG and EISG. The profitability of each of the segments is measured after excluding share-based compensation expense, amortization of acquisition-related balances, acquisition and integration costs, restructuring costs, interest income, interest expense and other items. Communications Solutions Group (“CSG”) CSG serves customers spanning the global commercial communications and aerospace, defense, and government end markets. The group’s solutions consist of electronic design and test software, instrumentation, systems, and related services. These solutions are used in the simulation, design, validation, manufacturing, installation, and optimization of communication systems in wireless, wireline, enterprise, and aerospace, defense, and government end markets. In addition, the group provides automated software test solutions to automatically identify, build, and execute tests critical to digital business success and a strong customer experience. Revenue Revenue for CSG in 2024 decreased 7 percent compared to 2023. Acquisitions had a favorable impact of 1 percentage point on the year-over-year revenue change. Foreign currency movements had an immaterial impact on the year-over-year revenue change. Revenue declined across all regions and in both the commercial communications and the aerospace, defense, and government end markets. The decline was driven primarily by lower customer demand as compared to last year, which benefited from robust backlog conversion. Our customers continued to make R&D investments in next-generation technologies and applications, including AI-driven data center expansion, ongoing 5G standards development and deployment, 400G/800G/terabit Ethernet, development of new communications technologies (e.g., 6G, Open Radio Access Networks, commercial non-terrestrial networks, and quantum), high-speed networking and major defense and government programs worldwide . CSG revenue for 2023 decreased 3 percent compared to 2022. Foreign currency movements had an unfavorable impact of 2 percentage points on year-over-year revenue change. Revenue declined in Asia Pacific and the Americas were partially offset by an increase in Europe. A revenue decline in the commercial communications end market was partially offset by growth in the aerospace, defense, and government end market. Revenue from the commercial communications market represented approximately 66 percent of total CSG revenue in 2024 and decreased 7 percent compared to 2023. Revenue declined across all regions. T he year-over-year decline in revenue was primarily driven by continued weakness in the wireless communications ecosystem, particularly smartphones, partially offset by higher investments in AI Workload Emulation tools and infrastructure solutions. We continued to see investments in high-speed networks due to increasing need for AI capabilities in the data center infrastructure ecosystem, which was driving demand for our 400G/800G/terabit Ethernet solutions, both in R&D and manufacturing. Revenue from the commercial communications market represented approximately 66 percent of total CSG revenue in 2023 and decreased 7 percent compared to 2022. Revenue declined in Asia Pacific and the Americas was partially offset by a slight increase in Europe. Revenue from the aerospace, defense, and government market represented approximately 34 percent of total CSG revenue in 2024 and decreased 8 percent compared to 2023. Revenue declines in Asia Pacific and the Americas were partially offset by an increase in Europe. We continue to see investments in electromagnetic spectrum operations, radar, space and satellite solutions, and signal monitoring. Revenue from the aerospace, defense, and government market represented approximately 34 percent of total CSG revenue in 2023 and increased 7 percent compared to 2022. Revenue grew across all regions. 40 Gross Margin and Operating Margin Gross margin for CSG in 2024 was flat compared to 2023, as lower revenue volume was offset by lower material and variable people-related costs . Gross margin for CSG in 2023 increased 1 percentage point compared to 2022, primarily driven by price increases and favorable mix, partially offset by higher warranty costs. R&D expense in 2024 was flat compared to 2023, as incremental costs of acquired businesses were offset by lower variable people-related costs. We continued to prudently prioritize investments in key growth opportunities in our end markets and leading-edge technologies. R&D expense in 2023 increased 2 percent compared to 2022, primarily driven by continued investments in key growth opportunities, partially offset by lower variable people-related costs. Selling, general and administrative expense in 2024 decrea sed 4 perce nt compared to 2023, primarily driven by lower people-related, marketing and infrastructure costs resulting from the flexibility of our operating model and cost efficiency measures, partially offset by incremental costs of acquired businesses. Selling, general and administrative expense in 2023 decreased 3 percent compared to 2022, primarily driven by lower sales commission and variable people-related costs, partially offset by higher travel-related costs. Other operating expense (income), net, was income of $10 million in 2024, $11 million in 2023, and $11 million in 2022, and primarily include property rental income. Operating margin in 2024 decreased 2 percentage points compared to 2023, primarily driven by higher R&D and selling, general and administrative expenses on lower revenue. Operating margin in 2023 increased 1 percentage point compared to 2022, primarily driven by gross margin gains offset by higher R&D expenses as a percentage of sales. Electronic Industrial Solutions Group (“EISG”) EISG serves customers across a diverse set of end markets focused on automotive and energy, semiconductor solutions, and general electronics. The group’s solutions consist of electronic design, test and simulation software, instrumentation, systems, and related services. These solutions are used in the simulation, design, validation, manufacturing, installation, and optimization of electronic equipment. In addition, the group provides automated software test solutions to automatically identify, build, and execute tests critical to digital business success and a strong customer experience. Our recent acquisition of ESI Group expands our application layer portfolio with simulation capabilities in automotive and general electronics sectors. Revenue Revenue for EISG in 2024 decreased 12 percent compared to 2023. Acquisitions had a favorable impact of 7 percentage points on the year-over-year revenue change. Foreign currency movements had an unfavorable impact of 1 percentage point on the year-over-year revenue change. Revenue declined across all regions and markets. The decline in revenue reflects the normalization in demand as macroeconomic challenges, such as inflation and high interest rates, continued to slow some investments, primarily in the manufacturing sector. Despite delays in near-term spending, customer engagement remained high as they continued to invest in key long-term strategic initiatives, such as AI-driven advanced semiconductor technologies, next-generation vehicles, industrial IoT and digital health. Revenue for EISG in 2023 increased 10 percent compared to 2022. 41 Foreign currency movements had an unfavorable impact of 2 percentage points on the year-over-year revenue change. Revenue grew across all regions and markets. Gross Margin and Operating Margin Gross margin for EISG in 2024 decreased 2 percentage points compared to 2023, primarily driven by lower revenue volume, partially offset by favorable gross margin impact from the ESI Group acquisition and lower variable people-related costs . Gross margi n in 2023 was flat compared to 2022, primarily driven by higher revenue volume and favorable mix, partially offset by higher warranty costs. R&D expense in 2024 increased 13 percent compared to 2023, primarily driven by incremental costs from acquired businesses, partially offset by lower variable people-related costs. We continued to prudently prioritize investments in key growth opportunities in our end markets and leading-edge technologies. R&D expense in 2023 increased 8 percent compared to 2022, primarily driven by continued investments in key growth opportunities, partially offset by lower variable people-related costs. Selling, general and administrative expense in 2024 increased 9 percent compared to 2023, primarily driven by incremental costs from acquired businesses, partially offset by lower people-related and infrastructure costs resulting from the flexibility of our operating model and cost efficiency measures. Selling, general and administrative expense in 2023 increased 4 percent compared to 2022, primarily driven by higher sales commission and travel-related costs, partially offset by lower variable people-related costs. Other operating expense (income), net, was income of $4 million in 2024, 2023 and 2022, and primarily include property rental income. Operating margin in 2024 decreased 10 percentage points compared to 2023, primarily driven by higher selling, general and administrative expense and R&D expense on lower revenue, coupled with gross margin declines. Operating margin in 2023 increased 2 percentage points compared to 2022, primarily driven by lower operating expenses as a percentage of sales. Financial Condition Liquidity and Capital Resources Our liquidity is affected by many factors, including normal ongoing operations of our business and fluctuations due to global economics and markets. Our cash balances are generated and held in many locations throughout the world. Under certain circumstances, U.S. and local government regulations may limit our ability to move cash balances to meet cash needs. Overview of Cash Flows Our key cash flow activities were as follows: 42 Operating Activities Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as working capital needs, the timing of payments for income taxes, variable pay, pension funding, and other items impact reported cash flows. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased $356 million in 2024 compared to 2023 and increased $264 million in 2023 compared to 2022. •    Net income in 2024 decreased $443 million compared to 2023. Non-cash adjustments to net income were higher by $339 million, primarily due to a $271 million increase in deferred tax expense resulting from a one-time income tax charge of $315 million to decrease deferred tax asset values from the Singapore statutory tax rate to an incentive tax rate (see Note 5, “Income Taxes,” for additional information), a $58 million increase in amortization and depreciation expense, a $8 million increase in excess and obsolete inventory related charges, and a $2 million increase in share-based compensation. Net income in 2023 decreased $67 million compared to 2022. Non-cash adjustments to net income were lower by $54 million, primarily due to a $36 million increase in unrealized gains on equity and other investments, a $14 million decrease in amortization, a $10 million increase in deferred tax benefit, and a $7 million decrease in other non-cash adjustments, which was primarily driven by prior year one-time asset impairment charges related to the discontinuance of our Russia operations, partially offset by a $10 million increase in share-based compensation, and a $3 million increase in depreciation expense. •    The aggregate of accounts receivable, inventory, and accounts payable provided net cash of $48 million during 2024, compared to net cash used of $196 million in 2023 and $273 million in 2022. The increase in aggregate net cash provided in 2024 compared to 2023 is primarily driven by a lower increase in inventory, lower payments, and timing of collections relative to revenue. The decrease in aggregate net cash used in 2023 compared to 2022 is primarily driven by higher collections, net of payments, partially offset by an increase in inventory driven by an incremental stock build-up to secure supply to support order fulfillment along with an increase in demo inventory. The amount of cash flow generated from or used by the aggregate of accounts receivable, inventory, and accounts payable depends on the cash conversion cycle, which represents the number of days that elapse from the day we pay for the purchase of raw materials and components to the collection of cash from our customers and can be significantly impacted by the timing of shipments and purchases, as well as collections and payments in a period. • The aggregate of tax receivables used net cash of $202 million during 2024, compared to net cash used of $4 million in 2023 and $30 million in 2022. In fiscal 2024 tax receivables are higher primarily due to the recognition of a discrete tax benefit of $165 million recorded as a current and long-term tax receivable in the consolidated balance sheet related to the U.S. intangible asset amortization deduction for purposes of determining income or loss under IRC § 951A(c) and the amendment of our U.S. federal income tax returns for the open tax years to claim the deduction. See Note 5, “Income Taxes,” for additional information. • During the year ended October 31, 2023, we terminated forward-starting interest rate swap agreements resulting in proceeds of $107 million. See Note 9, “Derivatives,” for additional information. • The aggregate other movements in assets and liabilities used net cash of $117 million during 2024, compared to net cash provided of $74 million in 2023 and net cash used of $101 million in 2022. The difference between 2024 and 2023 cash flows was primarily due to payments on settlement of foreign exchange forward contracts associated with the ESI Group acquisition, net unrealized gains on foreign exchange contracts not designated as hedging instruments, (see Note 9, “Derivatives”), changes in deferred revenue, and changes in other assets and liabilities, partially offset by higher income and other tax accruals, net of payments, lower variable compensation, and payroll-related payments, net of accruals. The difference between 2023 and 2022 cash flows is primarily due to lower prepaid inventory deposits driven by easing of supply chain constraints and other lower prepaid expenses, unrealized loss on foreign exchange contracts not designated as hedging instruments, and changes in other assets and liabilities, partially offset by higher income tax payments, net of accruals, higher variable compensation and other payroll-related payments, net of accruals, and changes in deferred revenue. 43 Investing Activities Net cash changes in investing activities primarily relates to investments in property, plant and equipment and acquisitions of businesses to support our growth. Net cash used in investing activities increased by $531 million in 2024 compared to 2023 and increased by $37 million in 2023 compared to 2022. The increase in net cash used in investing activities in 2024 as compared to 2023 was primarily due to $596 million higher cash used for acquisition activities, partially offset by a $49 million decrease in cash used for purchases of property, plant and equipment, net of government incentives received. In 2024, we used $681 million, net of cash acquired, for acquisitions, which included $477 million, net of $35 million cash acquired, for the acquisition of the controlling block of ESI Group shares. Additionally, we used $147 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment, net of $7 million of government incentives and $11 million for equity and other investments, partially offset by $20 million provided by other investing activities. In 2023, we used $288 million for investing activities, including $196 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment, net of government incentives; $85 million, net of cash acquired, for acquisition activities; and $7 million for purchase of investments. In 2022, we used $251 million for investing activities, including $185 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment; $33 million, net of cash acquired, for acquisition activities; and $33 million for purchase of investments. Financing Activities Our financing activities primarily include proceeds from issuance of common stock under employee stock plans, tax payments related to net share settlement of equity awards, issuances and repayment of debt and related costs, treasury stock repurchases, and transactions with non-controlling interests in partially-owned consolidated subsidiaries. Net cash used in financing activities increased by $226 million in 2024 compared to 2023, and decreased by $174 million in 2023 compared to 2022. The increase in net cash used in 2024 compared to 2023 was primarily due to $458 million used for the acquisition of the non-controlling interest in ESI Group, partially offset by $259 million lower treasury stock repurchases. In 2024, we used $913 million for financing activities, including $600 million used for repayment of the 2024 Senior Notes, $458 million used for the acquisition of the non-controlling interest in ESI Group, $443 million used for treasury stock repurchases, including payment of $4 million for excise taxes levied on share repurchases, $31 million for tax payments related to net share settlement of equity awards, $24 million used for repayment of debt assumed as part of the ESI Group acquisition, $12 million used for payment of debt issuance costs, and $10 million used for other financing activities, partially offset by $599 million of proceeds from the issuance of the 2034 Senior Notes, and $66 million of proceeds from issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. In 2023, we used $687 million for financing activities, including $702 million for treasury stock repurchases and $49 million for tax payments related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by $67 million of proceeds from issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. In 2022, we used $861 million for financing activities, including $849 million for treasury stock repurchases and $74 million for tax payments related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by $63 million of proceeds from issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. Treasury stock repurchases On March 6, 2023, our board of directors approved a new stock repurchase program authorizing the purchase of up to $1,500 million of the company’s common stock, of which $485 million remained as of October 31, 2024. The stock repurchase program may be commenced, suspended or discontinued at any time at the company’s discretion and does not have an expiration date. See “Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” under Part II Item 5 for additional information. 44 Debt Total Debt 2024 Senior Notes In October 2014, the company issued an aggregate principal amount of $ 600 million in unsecured senior notes (“2024 Senior Notes”). These notes matured on October 30, 2024 and were fully repaid. 2027 Senior Notes In April 2017, the company issued an aggregate principal amount of $ 700 million in unsecured senior notes (“2027 Senior Notes”). The 2027 Senior Notes were issued at 99.873 percent of their principal amount. The notes will mature on April 6, 2027 and bear interest at a fixed rate of 4.60 percent per annum. The interest is payable semi-annually on April 6 and October 6, commencing on October 6, 2017. We incurred issuance costs of $ 6 million in connection with the 2027 Senior Notes that, along with the debt discount, are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the senior notes. 2029 Senior Notes In October 2019, the company issued an aggregate principal amount of $ 500 million in unsecured senior notes (“2029 Senior Notes”). The 2029 Senior Notes were issued at 99.914 percent of their principal amount. The notes will mature on October 30, 2029 and bear interest at a fixed rate of 3.00 percent per annum. The interest is payable semi-annually on April 30 and October 30, commencing on April 30, 2020. We incurred issuance costs of $ 4 million in connection with the 2029 Senior Notes that, along with the debt discount, are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the senior notes. 2034 Senior Notes In October 2024, the company issued an aggregate principal amount of $ 600 million in unsecured senior notes (“2034 Senior Notes”). The 2034 Senior Notes were issued at 99.897 percent of their principal amount. The notes will mature on October 15, 2034 and bear interest at a fixed rate of 4.95 percent per annum. The interest is payable semi-annually on April 15 and October 15, commencing on April 15, 2025. We incurred issuance costs of $ 6 million in connection with the 2034 Senior Notes that, along with the debt discount, are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the senior notes. The above senior notes are unsecured and rank equally in right of payment with all of our other senior unsecured indebtedness. We were in compliance with the covenants of our senior notes during the year ended October 31, 2024. Revolving Credit Facility On July 30, 2021, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (the “Revolving Credit Facility”), which provides a $750 million five-year unsecured revolving credit facility that expires on July 30, 2026 with an annual interest rate of LIBOR + 1 percent along with a facility fee of 0.125 percent per annum. On February 17, 2023, we entered into the first amendment to the Revolving Credit Facility to change the annual interest rate from LIBOR + 1 percent to SOFR + 1.1 percent. In addition, the Revolving Credit Facility permits the company, subject to certain customary conditions, on one or more occasions to request to increase the total commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility by up to $250 million in the aggregate. We may use amounts borrowed under the Revolving Credit Facility for general corporate purposes. As of October 31, 2024 and 2023, we had no borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility. We were in compliance with the covenants of the Revolving Credit Facility during the year ended October 31, 2024. See Note 11, “Debt,” for additional information. Bridge Facility On March 28, 2024, we entered into a bridge credit agreement (the “Bridge Facility”) pursuant to which certain lenders agreed to provide a senior unsecured 364-day bridge credit facility of up to 1,350 million pounds sterling for the purpose of providing the financing to support a planned acquisition. On July 25, 2024, the Bridge Facility was decreased to 1,232 million 45 pounds sterling. We incurred costs in connection with the Bridge Facility of $7 million that are included in “other current assets” in the consolidated balance sheet and are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the Bridge Facility. ESI Group debt and credit facility assumed As part of the ESI Group acquisition, we assumed debt of $24 million, of which $10 million was payable within one year. The debt included a syndicated loan of $11 million payable through yearly installments until April 2025 with an annual interest rate of EURIBOR + 2 to 2.5 percent. We also assumed various fixed interest rate state-guaranteed loans and other bank borrowings of $13 million. During the year ended October 31, 2024, we repaid the debt assumed as part of the acquisition. As part of the ESI Group acquisition, we assumed a revolving credit facility of 10 million euros that was subsequently terminated in April 2024. See Note 11, “Debt,” for additional information. Cash and cash requirements Cash Our cash and cash equivalents mainly consist of investments in institutional money market funds, short-term deposits held at major global financial institutions, and similar short duration instruments with original maturities of three months or less. We continuously monitor the creditworthiness of the financial institutions and money market fund asset managers with whom we invest our funds. We utilize a variety of funding strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. Most significant international locations have access to internal funding through an offshore cash pool for working capital needs. In addition, a few locations that are unable to access internal funding have access to temporary local overdraft and short-term working capital lines of credit. Cash requirements We have cash requirements to support working capital needs, capital expenditures, business acquisitions, contractual obligations, commitments, principal and interest payments on debt, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations. W e generally intend to use available cash and funds generated from our operations to meet these cash requirements, but in the event that additional liquidity is required, we may also borrow under our Revolving Credit Facility. On March 28, 2024, we announced our intention to acquire the entire share capital of Spirent Communications PLC (“Spirent”) for cash consideration of 199 pence per Spirent share, which reflects a valuation of $1,463 million on a fully diluted basis. Spirent shareholders will also be entitled to receive a special dividend of 2.5 pence per Spirent share, in lieu of any final dividend for the year ended December 31, 2023 (together with the cash consideration of 199 pence per share). The acquisition is expected to be completed during the first half of fiscal year 2025, pending regulatory clearances. On September 19, 2024, Keysight announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement with Synopsys, Inc. (“Synopsys”) to acquire Synopsys’ Optical Solutions Group, a leading developer of optical design and analysis software tools. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including review by regulatory authorities and the successful closing of Synopsys’ proposed acquisition of Ansys, which is pending regulatory approvals and is expected to close in the first half of 2025. 46 The following table summarizes our short and long-term cash requirements as of October 31, 2024: Senior notes obligations and interest payments on senior notes. We have contractual obligations for principal and interest payments on our senior notes. See Note 11, “Debt,” for additional information. Operating lease commitments. Commitments under operating leases primarily relates to leasehold properties. See Note 10, “Leases,” for additional information. Commitments to contract manufacturers and suppliers. We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. See Note 14, “Commitments and Contingencies,” for additional information. As of October 31, 2024, we had non-cancellable purchase commitments that aggregated $423 million, of which the majority is for less than one year. Other purchase commitments. Other purchase commitments primarily relate to software as a service and other professional services contracts. We also have long-term power purchase agreements to purchase power at predominantly variable prices. These agreements are expected to support our power consumption needs with more favorable pricing and reliability than our previous supply agreements. See Note 14, “Commitments and Contingencies,” for additional information. Other liabilities. Other liabilities primarily include contract liabilities, net pension and post-retirement benefit obligations, employee compensation and benefits, net tax liabilities, standard warranties and other accrued liabilities. The timing of cash flows associated with these obligations is based on management’s estimates over the terms of these arrangements and is largely based on historical experience. Of the tax liabilities included in the above table, $20 million relates to a U.S. transition tax liability and $200 million for uncertain tax positions. The remaining U.S. transition tax liability, which Keysight originally elected to pay over 8 years, is payable over the next 3 years and relates to a one-time U.S. tax on those earnings that had not been previously repatriated to the U.S. With regard to the $200 million of long-term liabilities for uncertain tax positions, we are unable to accurately predict when these amounts will be realized or released. We believe that we have an adequate provision for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome of tax examinations cannot be predicted with certainty. Given the numerous tax years and matters that remain subject to examination in various tax jurisdictions, the ultimate resolution of current and future tax examinations could be inconsistent with management’s current expectations. See Note 5, “Income Taxes,” for additional information. In addition to the obligations noted above, as of October 31, 2024, we had $43 million of outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds that were issued by various lenders. For the next twelve months, we do not expect to contribute to our U.S. defined benefit plan and U.S. post-retirement benefit plan, and we expect to contribute $13 million to our non-U.S. defined benefit plans. The ultimate amounts we may contribute depend on, among other things, legal requirements, underlying asset returns, the plan’s funded status, the anticipated tax deductibility of the contribution, local practices, market conditions, interest rates, and other factors. See Note 12, “Retirement Plans and Post-Retirement Benefit Plans,” for additional information. Additionally, we expect capital spending to be approximately $150 million in 2025, compared to $147 million in 2024. As of October 31, 2024, we believe our cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations, and our ability to access capital markets and credit lines will satisfy our cash needs for the foreseeable future both globally and domestically. 47 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on management's best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the company in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates. We are not aware of any specific event or circumstance that would require an update to our estimates or judgments or a revision of the carrying value of our assets or liabilities as of October 31, 2024. An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimate that are reasonably likely to occur could materially change the financial statements. Our critical accounting policies are those that affect our financial statements materially and involve difficult, subjective, or complex judgments by management. Those policies are revenue recognition, inventory valuation, share-based compensation, retirement and post-retirement plan assumptions, business combinations, valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets, warranty, loss contingencies, restructuring, and accounting for income taxes. Revenue recognition. Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of the promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services. We primarily generate revenue from the sale of products (hardware and/or software), services, or a combination thereof. We enter into contracts that may involve multiple performance obligations, and we allocate the transaction price between each performance obligation on the basis of relative standalone selling price (“SSP”). We recognize revenue following a five-step model. 1. Identify the contract with a customer: Generally, we consider customer purchase orders, which in some cases are governed by master sales or other purchase agreements, to be the customer contract. All of the following criteria must be met before we consider an agreement to qualify as a contract with a customer under the revenue standard: (i) it must be approved by all parties; (ii) each party’s rights regarding the goods and services to be transferred can be identified; (iii) the payment terms for the goods and services can be identified; (iv) the agreement has commercial substance; and, (v) the customer has the ability and intent to pay and collection of substantially all of the consideration is probable. We exercise reasonable judgment to determine the customer’s ability and intent to pay, which is based upon various factors including the customer’s historical payment experience or credit and financial information and credit risk management measures that we implement. 2. Identify the performance obligations in the contract: We assess whether each promised good or service is distinct for the purpose of identifying the various performance obligations in each contract. Promised goods and services are considered distinct provided that: (i) the customer can benefit from the good or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available to the customer; and, (ii) our promise to transfer the good or service to the customer is separately identifiable or distinct from other promises in the contract. 3. Determine the transaction price: Transaction price reflects the amount of consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services. Our contracts may include terms that could cause variability in the transaction price including rebates, rights of return, trade-in credits, and discounts. Variable consideration is generally accounted for at the portfolio level and estimated based on historical information. 4. Allocate the transaction price to performance obligations in the contract: If the contract contains a single performance obligation, the entire transaction price is allocated to that performance obligation. Many of our contracts include multiple performance obligations with a combination of distinct products and services, maintenance and support, professional services and/or training. For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the total transaction value to each distinct performance obligation based on relative SSP. Judgment is required to determine the SSP for each distinct performance obligation. The best evidence of SSP is the observable price of a good or service when we sell that good or service separately under similar circumstances to similar customers. Since most contracts contain multiple performance obligations, we use information that may include market conditions and other observable inputs to estimate SSP when we do not have standalone transactions. 5. Recognize revenue when (or as) performance obligations are satisfied: Revenue is recognized at the point in time control is transferred to the customer. For hardware sales, transfer of control to the customer typically occurs at the point the product is shipped or delivered to the customer’s designated location. For software license sales, transfer of control to the customer typically occurs upon shipment, electronic delivery, or when the software is available for download by the customer. For sales of implementation service and custom solutions or in instances where products are sold along with essential installation services, transfer of control occurs and revenue is typically recognized upon customer acceptance. For fixed-price support and extended warranty contracts, or certain software arrangements that 48 provide customers with a right to access over a discrete period, control is deemed to transfer over time and revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract term due to the stand-ready nature of the performance obligation. Revenue from hardware repairs and calibration services outside of an extended warranty or support contract is recognized at the time of completion of the related service. For other professional services or time-based labor contracts, revenue is recognized as we perform the services and the customer receives and/or consume the benefits. Inventory valuation. We assess the valuation of our inventory periodically and adjust the value for estimated excess and obsolete inventory based on future demand and actual usage. The excess balance determined by this analysis serves as the basis for our excess inventory charge. Our excess inventory review process includes analyzing sales unit forecasts, managing product rollovers, and collaborating with manufacturing to maximize the recovery of excess inventory, taking actual market and economic conditions into consideration. Share-based compensation. We account for share-based awards in accordance with the provisions of the authoritative accounting guidance, which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to our employees and directors. Awards granted under the Long-Term Performance (“the LTP”) Program are based on a variety of targets, such as total shareholder return (“TSR”) or financial metrics such as operating margin. The awards based on TSR were valued using a Monte Carlo simulation model and those based on financial metrics were valued based on the market price of Keysight’s common stock on the date of grant. The compensation cost for financial metrics-based performance awards reflects the cost of awards that are probable to vest at the end of the performance period. The Monte Carlo simulation fair value model requires the use of highly subjective and complex assumptions, including the price volatility of the underlying stock. For additional information on valuation assumptions, see Note 4, “Share-Based Compensation.” The estimated fair value of restricted stock awards is determined based on the market price of Keysight’s common stock on the date of grant. We did not grant any option awards in 2024, 2023 and 2022. Retirement and post-retirement benefit plan assumptions. Retirement and post-retirement benefit plan costs are a significant cost of doing business. They represent obligations that will ultimately be settled sometime in the future and therefore are subject to estimation. Defined benefit plan obligations are remeasured at least annually as of October 31, based on the present value of future benefit payments to reflect the future benefit costs over the employees’ average expected future service to Keysight based on the terms of the plans. To estimate the present value of these future payments, we are required to make assumptions using actuarial concepts within the framework of generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. The discount rate is a critical assumption. Other important assumptions include expected long-term return on plan assets, expected future salary increases, expected future increases to benefit payments, expected retirement dates, employee turnover, retiree mortality rates and investment portfolio composition. We evaluate these assumptions at least annually. See Note 12, “Retirement Plans and Post-Retirement Benefit Plans.” The discount rate is used to determine the present value of future benefit payments at the measurement date, which is October 31 for both U.S. and non-U.S. plans. The U.S. discount rates as of October 31, 2024 and 2023 were determined based on the results of matching expected plan benefit payments with cash flows from a hypothetically constructed bond portfolio. The non-U.S. discount rates as of October 31, 2024 and 2023 were determined using spot rates along the yield curve to calculate disaggregated discount rates. In addition, we used this method to calculate two components of the periodic benefit cost: service cost and interest cost. If we changed our discount rate by 1 percent, the impact would be $6 million on U.S. net periodic benefit cost and $13 million on non-U.S. net periodic benefit cost. Lower discount rates increase the present value of the liability and subsequent year pension expense; higher discount rates decrease the present value of the liability and subsequent year pension expense. The company uses alternate methods of amortization, as allowed by the authoritative guidance, that amortizes the actuarial gains and losses on a consistent basis for the years presented. For U.S. plans, gains and losses are amortized over the average future working lifetime. For most non-U.S. plans and U.S. post-retirement benefit plans, gains and losses are amortized using a separate layer for each year’s gains and losses. The expected long-term return on plan assets is estimated using current and expected asset allocations as well as historical and expected returns. Plan assets are valued at fair value. If we changed our estimated return on assets by 1 percent, the impact would be $7 million on U.S. net periodic benefit cost and $8 million on non-U.S. net periodic benefit cost. Business combinations. Our methodology for allocating the purchase price relating to acquisitions is determined through established valuation techniques. We allocate the purchase price paid for assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with our acquisitions based on their estimated fair values at the time of acquisition, which involves a number of assumptions, estimates, and judgments, which are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. We determine the estimated fair values with the assistance of valuations performed by third party specialists, discounted cash flow analysis, and estimates made by management. Our ability to realize the future cash flows used in our fair value estimates may be affected by changes in our financial condition, financial performance, or business strategies. Our assumptions and estimates are based upon comparable 49 market data and information obtained from our management and the management of the acquired companies. These assumptions and estimates are used to value assets acquired and liabilities assumed, and to allocate goodwill to the reporting units of the business that are expected to benefit from the business combination. During the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the business acquisition date, we may recognize adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill. In addition, uncertain tax positions and tax-related valuation allowances are initially recorded in connection with a business combination as of the acquisition date. We continue to collect information and reevaluate these estimates and assumptions quarterly and record any adjustment to our preliminary estimates to goodwill provided that we are within the measurement period. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or final determination of the fair value of assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to our consolidated statements of operations. Goodwill and other intangible assets. We review goodwill for impairment annually during our fourth fiscal quarter and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. As defined in the authoritative guidance, a reporting unit is an operating segment, or one level below an operating segment. At the time of an acquisition, we assign goodwill to the reporting unit that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. Companies have the option to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether performing a quantitative test is necessary. If an entity believes, as a result of its qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the quantitative impairment test will be required. Otherwise, no further testing will be required. The quantitative impairment test involves a comparison of the estimated fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. We determine the fair value of a reporting unit from the results derived using the market approach, when available and appropriate, or the income approach, or a combination of both. If multiple valuation methodologies are used, the results are weighted accordingly. The income approach is estimated through the discounted cash flow (“DCF”) analysis. Determining fair value requires the exercise of significant judgment, including judgments about appropriate discount rates, revenue growth rates, and the amount and timing of expected future cash flows. Discount rates are based on a weighted average cost of capital (“WACC”), which represents the average rate a business must pay its providers of debt and equity, plus a risk premium. The WACC used to test goodwill is derived from a group of comparable companies. The cash flows employed in the DCF analysis are derived from internal forecasts and external market forecasts. The market approach estimates the fair value of the reporting unit by utilizing the market comparable method, which is based on revenue and earnings multiples from comparable companies. If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, then an impairment charge is recorded for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value up to a maximum amount of the goodwill balance for the reporting unit. During the fourth quarter of 2024, we performed our annual impairment test of goodwill for all our reporting units using a qualitative approach. Based on the results of our qualitative testing, we believe that it is more likely than not that the fair value of each reporting unit is greater than its respective carrying value. There were no impairments of goodwill during the years ended October 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022. Other intangible assets consist primarily of developed technologies, trademarks, customer relationships, non-compete agreements, and backlog and are amortized using the straight-line method over estimated useful lives ranging from 1 to 12 years. We review other intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be fully recoverable or that the useful lives of these assets are no longer appropriate. No impairments of amortizable intangible assets were recorded during the years ended October 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022. We review indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be fully recoverable or that the useful lives of these assets are no longer appropriate. The authoritative accounting guidance allows a qualitative approach for testing indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, similar to the impairment testing guidance for goodwill. It allows the option to first assess qualitative factors (events and circumstances) that could have affected the significant inputs used in determining the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset. The qualitative factors assist in determining whether it is more likely than not that the indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. An organization may choose to bypass the qualitative assessment for any indefinite-lived intangible asset in any period and proceed directly to calculating its fair value. Our indefinite-lived intangible assets are generally in-process research and development (“IPR&D”) intangible assets. No impairments of indefinite-lived intangible assets were recorded in 2024. We had no IPR&D intangible assets as of October 31, 2023 and 2022. Warranty. Keysight warranties on products sold through direct sales channels are primarily for one year. Warranties for products sold through distribution channels are primarily for three years. We accrue for standard warranty costs based on 50 historical trends in warranty charges. The accrual is reviewed regularly and periodically adjusted to reflect changes in warranty cost estimates. Estimated warranty charges are recorded within “cost of products” at the time related product revenue is recognized. We also sell extended warranties that provide warranty coverage beyond the standard warranty term. Revenue associated with extended warranties is deferred and recognized over the extended coverage period. Loss Contingencies. As discussed in Note 14, “Commitments and Contingencies” to the consolidated financial statements, we are, from time to time, subject to a variety of litigation and similar contingent liabilities incidental to our business (or the business operations of previously owned entities). We recognize a liability for any contingency that is known or probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable. These assessments require judgments concerning matters such as litigation developments and outcomes, the anticipated outcome of negotiations, the number of future claims and the cost of both pending and future claims. In addition, because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the future due to various factors. Changes in these factors could materially impact our financial position or our results of operations. Restructuring. The main component of our existing restructuring plans is related to workforce reductions and site restructuring. Workforce reduction charges are accrued when payment of benefits becomes probable and the amounts can be estimated. If the amounts and timing of cash flows from restructuring activities are significantly different from what we have estimated, the actual amount of restructuring and other related charges could be materially different, either higher or lower, than those we have recorded. Accounting for income taxes. We must make certain estimates and judgments in determining income tax expense for financial statement purposes. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of tax benefits, credits and deductions, and in the calculation of certain tax assets and liabilities that arise from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial statement purposes. Significant changes to these estimates may result in an increase or decrease to our tax provision in a subsequent period. Significant management judgment is also required in determining whether deferred tax assets will be realized in full or in part. When it is more likely than not that all or some portion of specific deferred tax assets such as net operating losses or foreign tax credit carryforwards will not be realized, a valuation allowance must be established for the amount of the deferred tax assets that cannot be realized. We consider all available positive and negative evidence on a jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction basis when assessing whether it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets are recoverable. We consider evidence such as our past operating results, the existence of losses in recent years and our forecast of future taxable income. As of October 31, 2024, the company maintains a valuation allowance mainly related to net operating losses in Luxembourg, capital losses and net operating losses in the U.K., and California research credits from acquired entities that are subject to change in ownership limitations. We intend to maintain a valuation allowance in these jurisdictions until sufficient positive evidence exists to support their reversal. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax law and regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions. Although the guidance on the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes prescribes the use of a recognition and measurement model, the determination of whether an uncertain tax position has met those thresholds will continue to require significant judgment by management. In accordance with the guidance on the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, for all U.S. and other tax jurisdictions, we recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest will be due. The ultimate resolution of tax uncertainties may differ from what is currently estimated, which could result in a material impact on income tax expense. If our estimate of income tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would be required. If events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. We include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits within the provision for income taxes in the consolidated statements of operations. New Accounting Standards See Note 1, “Overview, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” to the consolidated financial statements for a description of new accounting pronouncements. 51