********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in the description of these operations contained elsewhere in this report, set forth below are risks and uncertainties that could affect our financial results.  Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, the following risks and uncertainties apply to Pinnacle West and its subsidiaries, including APS. REGULATORY RISKS Our financial condition depends upon APS’s ability to recover costs in a timely manner from customers through regulated rates and otherwise execute its business strategy. APS is subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory agencies that significantly influence its business, liquidity and results of operations and its ability to fully recover costs from utility customers in a timely manner.  The ACC regulates APS’s retail electric rates and FERC regulates rates for wholesale power sales and transmission services.  The profitability of APS is affected by the rates it may charge and the timeliness of recovering costs incurred through its rates and adjustor recovery mechanisms.  Consequently, our financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon the satisfactory resolution of any APS rate proceedings, adjustor recovery and ancillary matters which may come before the ACC and FERC, including in some cases how court challenges to these regulatory decisions are resolved.  Arizona, like certain other states, has a statute that allows the ACC to reopen prior decisions and modify otherwise final orders under certain circumstances.  Additionally, given that APS is subject to oversight by several regulatory agencies, a resolution by one may not foreclose potential actions by others for similar or related matters, such as the resolution of an Arizona Attorney General matter.  See Note 11. The ACC must also approve APS’s issuance of equity and debt securities and any significant transfer or encumbrance of APS property used to provide retail electric service and must approve or receive prior notification of certain transactions between us, APS, and our respective affiliates, including 32 the infusion of equity into APS.  Decisions made by the ACC or FERC could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. APS’s ability to conduct its business operations and avoid negative operational and financial impacts depends in part upon compliance with federal, state and local laws, judicial decisions, statutes, regulations and ACC requirements, which may be revised from time to time by legislative or other action, and obtaining and maintaining certain regulatory permits, approvals, and certificates. APS must comply in good faith with all applicable statutes, regulations, rules, tariffs, and orders of agencies that regulate APS’s business, including FERC, NRC, EPA, the ACC, and state and local governmental agencies.  These agencies regulate many aspects of APS’s utility operations, including safety and performance, emissions, siting and construction of facilities, customer service and the rates that APS can charge retail and wholesale customers.  Failure to comply can subject APS to, among other things, fines and penalties.  For example, under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, FERC can impose penalties (approximately $1.2 million per day per violation) for failure to comply with mandatory electric reliability standards.  APS is also required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from these agencies.  APS believes the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for its existing operations and that APS’s business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws in all material respects. Changes in laws or regulations that govern APS, new interpretations of law and regulations, or the imposition of new or revised laws or regulations could have an adverse impact on the manner in which we operate our business and our results of operations.  In particular, new or revised laws or interpretations of existing laws or regulations may impact or call into question the ACC’s permissive regulatory authority, which may result in uncertainty as to jurisdictional authority within our state, and uncertainty as to whether ACC decisions will be binding or challenged by other agencies or bodies asserting jurisdiction.  In November 2021, the Arizona Court of Appeals issued an opinion that called into question the ACC-approved limitation of liability provision found in the APS Service Schedules.  While APS is currently seeking review of the decision at the Arizona Supreme Court, the Court of Appeals decision—if undisturbed—could have an adverse impact on APS’s future, potential litigation exposure.  We are unable to predict the impact on our business and operating results from any pending or future regulatory or legislative rulemaking. The operation of APS’s nuclear power plant exposes it to substantial regulatory oversight and potentially significant liabilities and capital expenditures. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose safety-related, security-related and other licensing requirements for the operation of nuclear generating facilities.  Events at nuclear facilities of other operators or impacting the industry generally may lead the NRC to impose additional requirements and regulations on all nuclear generating facilities, including Palo Verde.  In the event of noncompliance with its requirements, the NRC has the authority to impose a progressively increased inspection regime that could ultimately result in the shut-down of a unit or civil penalties, or both, depending upon the NRC’s assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved.  The increased costs resulting from penalties, a heightened level of scrutiny and implementation of plans to achieve compliance with NRC requirements may adversely affect APS’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. APS is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, and changes in, or liabilities under, existing or new laws or regulations may increase APS’s cost of operations or impact its business plans. APS is, or may become, subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of its present and future operations, including air emissions of conventional pollutants and GHGs, water quality, discharges of wastewater and waste streams originating from fly ash and bottom ash handling facilities, solid waste, hazardous waste, and coal combustion products, which consist of bottom ash, fly ash, and air pollution control wastes.  These laws and regulations can result in increased capital, 33 operating, and other costs, particularly with regard to enforcement efforts focused on power plant emissions obligations.  These laws and regulations generally require APS to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, and other approvals.  If there is a delay or failure to obtain any required environmental regulatory approval, or if APS fails to obtain, maintain, or comply with any such approval, operations at affected facilities could be suspended or subject to additional expenses.  In addition, failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could result in civil liability as a result of government enforcement actions or private claims or criminal penalties.  Both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws and regulations.  APS cannot predict the outcome (financial or operational) of any related litigation that may arise. Environmental Clean Up. APS has been named as a PRP for a Superfund site in Phoenix, Arizona, and it could be named a PRP in the future for other environmental clean-up at sites identified by a regulatory body. APS cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean-up costs.  There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all PRPs. Coal Ash. In December 2014, EPA issued final regulations governing the handling and disposal of CCR, which are generated as a result of burning coal and consist of, among other things, fly ash and bottom ash.  The rule regulates CCR as a non-hazardous waste.  APS currently disposes of CCR in ash ponds and dry storage areas at Cholla and Four Corners.  To the extent the rule requires the closure or modification of these CCR units, modification, or changes to the manner of closure of such units, or the construction of new CCR units beyond what we currently anticipate, APS would incur significant additional costs for CCR disposal.  In addition, the rule may also require corrective action to address releases from CCR disposal units or the presence of CCR constituents within groundwater near CCR disposal units above certain regulatory thresholds. Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards. In 2015, EPA finalized revisions to the NAAQS for ozone, which set new, more stringent standards on emissions of nitrogen oxide, a precursor to ozone, in an effort to protect human health and human welfare.  Depending on the final attainment designations for the new standards and the state implementation requirements, APS may be required to invest in new pollution control technologies and to generate emission offsets for new projects or facility expansions located in ozone nonattainment areas. APS cannot assure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new regulations seeking to protect the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to it.  Revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs incurred by APS are not fully recoverable from APS’s customers, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  Due to current or potential future regulations or legislation coupled with trends in natural gas and coal prices, or other clean energy rules or initiatives, the economics or feasibility of continuing to own certain resources, particularly coal facilities, may deteriorate, warranting early retirement of those plants, which may result in asset impairments.  APS would seek recovery in rates for the book value of any remaining investments in the plants as well as other costs related to early retirement but cannot predict whether it would obtain such recovery. APS faces potential financial risks resulting from climate change litigation and legislative and regulatory efforts to limit GHG emissions, as well as physical and operational risks related to climate effects. Concern over climate change has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit CO 2 , which is a major byproduct of the combustion of fossil fuel, and other GHG emissions. 34 Potential Financial Risks — Greenhouse Gas Regulation, the Clean Power Plan and Potential Litigation. In 2015, EPA finalized a rule to limit CO 2 emissions from existing power plants, the CPP.  The implementation of this rule within the jurisdictions where APS operates would have resulted in a shift in generation from coal to more natural gas and renewable generation.  Because of a view that the federal Clean Air Act did not permit such an expansive use of administrative authority over utility generation resources, in 2019 regulations were issued that repealed the CPP and replaced it with a far narrower set of regulations focused solely on coal-fired power plant efficiency improvements.  On January 19, 2021, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit vacated the ACE regulations and remanded them back to EPA to develop new regulations governing carbon emissions from existing power plants consistent with the court’s ruling.  That decision endorsed an expansive view of the federal Clean Air Act consistent with EPA’s 2015 CPP, and the current administration has expressed its intent to assert such authority through new carbon emission regulations governing existing power plants. Depending on the outcome of future carbon emission rulemakings under the Clean Air Act targeting new and existing power plants, the utility industry may become subject to more stringent and expansive regulations.  To the extent that these regulations focus on generation shifting as a means of compliance with federal emission performance standards, the electric utility industry may be forced to incur substantial costs necessary to achieve compliance.  In addition, we anticipate that such regulations will be challenged in federal court prior to their implementation.  Depending on the outcome of such judicial review, the utility industry may face alternative efforts from private parties seeking to establish alternative GHG emission limitations from power plants.  Alternative GHG emission limitations may arise from litigation under either federal or state common laws or citizen suit provisions of federal environmental statutes that attempt to force federal agency rulemaking or imposing direct facility emission limitations.  Such lawsuits may also seek damages from harm alleged to have resulted from power plant GHG emissions. Physical and Operational Risks. Weather extremes such as drought and high temperature variations are common occurrences in the southwest United States’ desert area, and these are risks that APS considers in the normal course of business in the engineering and construction of its electric system.  Large increases in ambient temperatures could require evaluation of certain materials used within its system and may represent a greater challenge.  As part of conducting its business, APS recognizes that the southwestern United States is particularly susceptible to the risks posed by climate change, which over time is projected to exacerbate high temperature extremes and prolong drought in the area where APS conducts its business. Co-owners of our jointly owned generation facilities may have unaligned goals and positions due to the effects of legislation, regulations, economic conditions, or changes in our industry, which could have a significant impact on our ability to continue operations of such facilities. APS owns certain of its power plants jointly with other owners, with varying ownership interests in such facilities.  Changes in the nature of our industry and the economic viability of certain plants, including impacts resulting from types and availability of other resources, fuel costs, legislation, and regulation, together with timing considerations related to expiration of leases or other agreements for such facilities, could result in unaligned positions among co-owners.  Differences in the co-owners’ willingness or ability to continue their participation could lead to eventual shut down of units or facilities and uncertainty related to the resulting cost recovery of such assets.  See Note 4 for a discussion of the Navajo Plant and Cholla retirement and the related risks associated with APS’s continued recovery of its remaining investment in the plant. 35 Deregulation or restructuring of the electric industry may result in increased competition, which could have a significant adverse impact on APS’s business and its results of operations. In 1999, the ACC approved rules for the introduction of retail electric competition in Arizona.  Retail competition could have a significant adverse financial impact on APS due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins or increased costs of capital.  Although some very limited retail competition existed in APS’s service area in 1999 and 2000, there are currently no active retail competitors offering unbundled energy or other utility services to APS’s customers.  This is in large part due to a 2004 Arizona Court of Appeals decision that found critical components of the ACC’s rules to be violative of the Arizona Constitution.  The ruling also voided the operating authority of all the competitive providers previously authorized by the ACC.  On May 9, 2013, the ACC voted to re-examine the facilitation of a deregulated retail electric market in Arizona.  The ACC subsequently opened a docket for this matter and received comments from a number of interested parties on the considerations involved in establishing retail electric deregulation in the state.  One of these considerations is whether various aspects of a deregulated market, including setting utility rates on a “market” basis, would be consistent with the requirements of the Arizona Constitution.  On September 11, 2013, after receiving legal advice from the ACC staff, the ACC voted 4-1 to close the current docket and await full Arizona Constitutional authority before any further examination of this matter. In November 2018, the ACC voted to re-examine the facilitation of a deregulated retail electric market in Arizona.  On July 1 and July 2, 2019, ACC Staff issued a report and initial proposed draft rules regarding possible modifications to the ACC’s retail electric competition rules.  On February 10, 2020, two ACC Commissioners filed two sets of draft proposed retail electric competition rules.  On February 12, 2020, ACC Staff issued its second report regarding possible modifications to the ACC’s retail electric competition rules.  During a July 15, 2020, ACC Staff meeting, the ACC Commissioners discussed the possible development of a retail competition pilot program, but no action was taken.  The ACC continues to discuss matters related to retail electric competition, including the potential for additional buy-through programs or other pilot programs.  At the same time, the Arizona legislature is considering a bill that would nullify, if approved, a 20-year-old electric deregulation law that has been in place since 1998.  The bill has several procedural steps in the legislative process before becoming law. Changes in tax legislation or regulation may affect our financial results . We are subject to taxation by various taxing authorities at the federal, state, and local levels.  Legislation or regulations could be enacted by any of these governmental authorities, which could affect the Company’s tax positions.  The prospects for federal tax reform have increased due to the results of the 2020 Federal elections.  Any such reform may impact the Company’s effective tax rate, cash taxes paid and other financial results, such as earnings per share, gross revenues, and cash flows.  We cannot predict the timing or extent of such tax-related developments which, absent appropriate regulatory treatment, could have a negative impact on our financial results. OPERATIONAL RISKS APS’s results of operations can be adversely affected by various factors impacting demand for electricity. Weather Conditions. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and affect the price of energy commodities.  Electric power demand is generally a seasonal business.  In Arizona, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time.  As a result, APS’s overall operating results fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis.  In addition, APS has historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder.  As a result, unusually mild weather could diminish APS’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 36 Apart from the impact upon electricity demand, weather conditions related to prolonged high temperatures or extreme heat events present operational challenges.  In the southwestern United States, where APS conducts its business, the effects of climate change are projected to increase the overall average temperature, lead to more extreme temperature events, and exacerbate prolonged drought conditions leading to the declining availability of water resources.  Extreme heat events and rising temperatures are projected to reduce the generation capacity of thermal-power plants and decrease the efficiency of the transmission grid.  These operational risks related to rising temperatures and extreme heat events could affect APS’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Higher temperatures may decrease the snowpack, which might result in lowered soil moisture and an increased threat of forest fires.  Forest fires could threaten APS’s communities and electric transmission lines and facilities.  Any damage caused as a result of forest fires could negatively impact APS’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  In addition, the decrease in snowpack can also lead to reduced water supplies in the areas where APS relies upon non-renewable water resources to supply cooling and process water for electricity generation.  Prolonged and extreme drought conditions can also affect APS’s long-term ability to access the water resources necessary for thermal electricity generation operations.  Reductions in the availability of water for power plant cooling could negatively impact APS’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Effects of Energy Conservation Measures and Distributed Energy Resources. The ACC enacted rules regarding energy efficiency that mandated a 22% cumulative annual energy savings requirement by 2020.  This will likely increase participation by APS customers in energy efficiency and conservation programs and other demand-side management efforts, which in turn will impact the demand for electricity.  The rules also include a requirement for the ACC to review and address financial disincentives, recovery of fixed costs and the recovery of net lost revenue that would result from lower sales due to increased energy efficiency requirements.  To that end, the LFCR is designed to address these matters. APS must also meet certain distributed energy requirements.  A portion of APS’s total renewable energy requirement must be met with an increasing percentage of distributed energy resources (generally, small scale renewable technologies located on customers’ properties).  The distributed energy requirement is 30% of the applicable RES requirement for 2012 and subsequent years.  Customer participation in distributed energy programs would result in lower demand since customers would be meeting some of their own energy needs. In addition to these rules and requirements, energy efficiency technologies and distributed energy resources continue to evolve, which may have similar impacts on demand for electricity.  Reduced demand due to these energy efficiency requirements, distributed energy requirements and other emerging technologies, unless substantially offset through ratemaking mechanisms, could have a material adverse impact on APS’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Actual and Projected Customer and Sales Growth. Retail customers in APS’s service territory increased 2.2% for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared with the prior-year period.  For the three years through 2021, APS’s customer growth averaged 2.2% per year.  We currently project annual customer growth to be 1.5% to 2.5% for 2022, and the average annual growth will be in the range of 1.5% to 2.5% through 2024 based on anticipated steady population growth in Arizona during that period. Retail electricity sales in kWh, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations, for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared with the prior-year period increased 4.2%, which reflects a correction to 2020 commercial and industrial sales volumes of 111 GWh.  While steady customer growth was offset by energy savings driven by customer conservation, energy efficiency, and distributed renewable generation initiatives, the main drivers of positive sales for this period were residential sales being stronger than anticipated due to continued work-from-home policies, a strong improvement in sales to commercial 37 and industrial customers, and the ramp-up of new data center customers. Though the total expected impact of COVID-19 on future sales is currently unknown, APS experienced higher electric residential sales and lower electric commercial and industrial sales from the outset of the pandemic through April 2021. Beginning in May 2021, electric sales to commercial and industrial customers increased to levels in line with pre-COVID sales. For the three years through 2021, annual retail electricity sales growth averaged 1.7%, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations.  We currently project that annual retail electricity sales in kWh will increase in the range of 1.5% to 2.5% for 2022 and average annual growth will be in the range of 3.5% to 4.5% through 2024, including the effects of customer conservation, energy efficiency and distributed renewable generation initiatives, but excluding the effects of weather variations.   This projected sales growth range includes the impacts of new, large manufacturing facilities, which are expected to contribute to average annual growth in the range of 1.0% to 2.0% through 2024. This projected sales growth range also includes our estimated contributions of several large data centers, but not all, and we will continue to estimate contributions and evaluate sales guidance as these customers develop more usage history. These estimates could be further impacted by slower than expected growth of the Arizona economy, slower than expected ramp-up of the new data centers, larger manufacturing facilities not coming to Arizona as expected, a shift away from remote work, slower than expected commercial and industrial expansions, or acceleration of the expected effects of customer conservation, energy efficiency and distributed renewable generation initiatives. Actual sales growth, excluding weather-related variations, may differ from our projections as a result of numerous factors, such as economic conditions, customer growth, usage patterns and energy conservation, ramp-up of data centers, impacts of energy efficiency programs and growth in DG, and responses to retail price changes.  Based on past experience, a 1% variation in our annual residential and small commercial and industrial kWh sales projections under normal business conditions can result in increases or decreases in annual net income of approximately $20 million, and a 1% variation in our annual large commercial and industrial kWh sales projections under normal business conditions can result in increases or decreases in annual net income of approximately $5 million. The operation of power generation facilities and transmission systems involves risks that could result in reduced output or unscheduled outages, which could materially affect APS’s results of operations . The operation of power generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves certain risks, including the risk of breakdown or failure of equipment, fuel interruption, and performance below expected levels of output or efficiency.  Unscheduled outages, including extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other complications, occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of APS’s business.  Because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of our facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the larger transmission power grid, and the operation or failure of our facilities could adversely affect the operations of others.  Concerns over physical security of these assets could include damage to certain of our facilities due to vandalism or other deliberate acts that could lead to outages or other adverse effects.  If APS’s facilities operate below expectations, especially during its peak seasons, it may lose revenue or incur additional expenses, including increased purchased power expenses. The impact of wildfires could negatively affect APS’s results of operations. Wildfires have the potential to affect the communities that APS serves and APS’s vast network of electric transmission and distribution lines and facilities.  The potential likelihood of wildfires has increased due to many of the same weather impacts existing in Arizona as those that led to the catastrophic wildfires in Northern California.  While we proactively take steps to mitigate wildfire risk in the areas of our electrical assets, wildfire risk is always present due to APS’s expansive service territory.  APS could be 38 held liable for damages incurred as a result of wildfires if it was determined that they were caused by or enhanced due to APS’s negligence.  The Arizona liability standard is different from that of California, which generally imposes liability for resulting damages without regard to fault.  Any damage caused to our assets, loss of service to our customers, or liability imposed as a result of wildfires could negatively impact APS’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The inability to successfully develop, acquire or operate generation resources to meet reliability requirements and other new or evolving standards or regulations could adversely impact our business. Potential changes in regulatory standards, impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, and the need to obtain various regulatory approvals create uncertainty surrounding our current and future generation portfolio.  The current regulatory standards, laws, and regulations create strategic challenges as to the appropriate generation portfolio and fuel diversification mix.  In addition, APS is required by the ACC to meet certain energy resource portfolio requirements, including those related to carbon emissions, renewables development and energy efficiency measures.  The development of any generation facility is also subject to many risks, including those related to financing, siting, permitting, new and evolving technology, and the construction of sufficient transmission capacity to support these facilities.  APS’s inability to adequately develop or acquire the necessary generation resources could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. In expressing concerns about the environmental and climate-related impacts from continued extraction, transportation, delivery and combustion of fossil fuels, environmental advocacy groups and other third parties have in recent years undertaken greater efforts to oppose the permitting, construction, and operation of fossil fuel infrastructure projects.  These efforts may increase in scope and frequency depending on a number of variables, including the future course of Federal environmental regulation and the increasing financial resources devoted to these opposition activities.  APS cannot predict the effect that any such opposition may have on our ability to develop, construct, and operate fossil fuel infrastructure projects in the future. In January 2020, APS announced its goal to provide 100% clean, carbon-free electricity by 2050 with an intermediate 2030 target of achieving a resource mix that is 65% clean energy, with 45% of the generation portfolio coming from renewable energy.  APS’s ability to successfully execute its clean energy commitment is dependent upon a number of external factors, some of which include supportive national and state energy policies, a supportive regulatory environment, sales and customer growth, the development, deployment and advancement of clean energy technologies and continued access to capital markets. The lack of access to sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on APS’s business and results of operations. Assured supplies of water are important for APS’s generating plants.  Water in the southwestern United States is limited, and various parties have made conflicting claims regarding the right to access and use such limited supply of water.  Both groundwater and surface water in areas important to the operation of APS’s generating plants have been and are the subject of inquiries, claims and legal proceedings.  In addition, the region in which APS’s power plants are located is prone to drought conditions, which could potentially affect the plants’ water supplies.  Climate change is also projected to exacerbate prolonged drought conditions.  APS’s inability to access sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. 39 We are subject to cybersecurity risks and risks of unauthorized access to our systems that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. We operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure.  In the regular course of our business, we handle a range of sensitive security, customer, and business systems information.  There appears to be an increasing level of activity, sophistication, and maturity of threat actors, in particular nation state actors, that seek to exploit potential vulnerabilities in the electric utility industry and wish to disrupt the U.S. bulk power system, our information technology systems, generation (including our Palo Verde nuclear facility), transmission and distribution facilities, and other infrastructure facilities and systems and physical assets.  We have been and could be the target of attacks, and the aforementioned systems are critical areas of cyber protection for us. We rely extensively on IT systems, networks, and services, including internet sites, data hosting and processing facilities, and other hardware, software and technical applications and platforms.  Some of these systems are managed, hosted, provided, or used for third parties to assist in conducting our business.  Malicious actors may attack vendors to disrupt the services these vendors provide to us or to use those vendors as a cyber conduit to attack us.  As more third parties are involved in the operation of our business, there is a risk the confidentiality, integrity, privacy, or security of data held by, or accessible to, third parties may be compromised. If a significant cybersecurity event or breach were to occur, we may not be able to fulfill critical business functions and we could (i) experience property damage, disruptions to our business, theft of or unauthorized access to customer, employee, financial or system operation information or other information; (ii) experience loss of revenue or incur significant costs for repair, remediation and breach notification, and increased capital and operating costs to implement increased security measures; and (iii) be subject to increased regulation, litigation and reputational damage.  If such disruptions or breaches are not detected quickly, their effects could be compounded or could delay our response or the effectiveness of our response and ability to limit our exposure to potential liability.  These types of events could also require significant management attention and resources and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We develop and maintain systems and processes aimed at detecting and preventing information and cybersecurity incidents which require significant investment, maintenance, and ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies and regulatory requirements change.  These systems and processes may be insufficient to mitigate the possibility of cybersecurity incidents, malicious social engineering, fraudulent or other malicious activities, and human error or malfeasance in the safeguarding of our data. We are subject to laws and rules issued by multiple government agencies concerning safeguarding and maintaining the confidentiality of our security, customer information and business information.  One of these agencies, NERC, has issued comprehensive regulations and standards surrounding the security of bulk power systems, and is continually in the process of developing updated and additional requirements with which the utility industry must comply.  The NRC also has issued regulations and standards related to the protection of critical digital assets at commercial nuclear power plants.  The increasing promulgation of NERC and NRC rules and standards will increase our compliance costs and our exposure to the potential risk of violations of the standards.  Experiencing a cybersecurity incident could cause us to be non-compliant with applicable laws and regulations, such as those promulgated by NERC and the NRC, privacy laws, or contracts that require us to securely maintain confidential data, causing us to incur costs related to legal claims or proceedings and regulatory fines or penalties. The risk of these system-related events and security breaches occurring continues to intensify.  We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, threats and attempted intrusions to our information 40 technology systems and we could experience such threats and attempted intrusions to our operational control systems.  To date, we do not believe we have experienced a material breach or disruption to our network or information systems or our service operations.  We may not be able to anticipate and prevent all cyberattacks or information security breaches, and our ongoing investments in security resources, talent, and business practices may not be effective against all threat actors.  As such attacks continue to increase in sophistication and frequency, we may be unable to prevent all such attacks from being successful in the future. We maintain cyber insurance to provide coverage for a portion of the losses and damages that may result from a security breach of our information technology systems, but such insurance is subject to a number of exclusions and may not cover the total loss or damage caused by a breach.  Coverage for cybersecurity events continues to evolve as the industry matures.  In the future, adequate insurance may not be available at rates that we believe are reasonable, and the costs of responding to and recovering from a cyber incident may not be covered by insurance or recoverable in rates. The ownership and operation of power generation and transmission facilities on Indian lands could result in uncertainty related to continued leases, easements, and rights-of-way, which could have a significant impact on our business. Four Corners and portions of certain APS transmission lines are located on Indian lands pursuant to leases, easements or other rights-of-way that are effective for specified periods.  APS is unable to predict the final outcomes of pending and future approvals by the applicable sovereign governing bodies with respect to renewals of these leases, easements, and rights-of-way. There are inherent risks in the ownership and operation of nuclear facilities, such as environmental, health, fuel supply, spent fuel disposal, regulatory and financial risks and the risk of terrorist attack that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. APS has an ownership interest in and operates on behalf of a group of participants, Palo Verde, which is the largest nuclear electric generating facility in the United States.  Palo Verde constitutes approximately 18% of APS’s owned and leased generation capacity.  Palo Verde is subject to environmental, health and financial risks, such as the ability to obtain adequate supplies of nuclear fuel; the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel; the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning; potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities; the costs of securing the facilities against possible terrorist attacks; and unscheduled outages due to equipment and other problems.  APS maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds and external insurance coverage to minimize its financial exposure to some of these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage.  APS may be required under federal law to pay up to $120.1 million (but not more than $17.9 million per year) of liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident not only at Palo Verde, but at any other nuclear power plant in the United States.  In addition, APS is subject to retrospective premium adjustments under its nuclear property insurance policies with Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (“NEIL”) for approximately $22.4 million if NEIL’s losses in any policy year exceed accumulated funds and if the retrospective premium assessment is declared by NEIL’s Board of Directors.  Although APS has no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at Palo Verde, if an incident did occur, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit and to promulgate new regulations that could require significant capital expenditures and/or increase operating costs. 41 Changes in technology could create challenges for APS’s existing business. Alternative energy technologies that produce power or reduce power consumption or emissions are being developed and commercialized, including renewable technologies such as photovoltaic (solar) cells, customer-sited generation, energy storage (batteries) and efficiency technologies.  Advances in technology and equipment/appliance efficiency could reduce the demand for supply from conventional generation, including carbon-free nuclear generation, and increase the complexity of managing APS’s information technology and power system operations, which could adversely affect APS’s business. Customer-sited alternative energy technologies present challenges to APS’s operations due to misalignment with APS’s existing operational needs.  When these resources lack “dispatchability” and other elements of utility-side control, they are considered “unmanaged” resources.  The cumulative effect of such unmanaged resources results in added complexity for APS’s system management. APS continues to pursue and implement advanced grid technologies, including transmission and distribution system technologies and digital meters enabling two-way communications between the utility and its customers.  Many of the products and processes resulting from these and other alternative technologies, including energy storage technologies, have not yet been widely used or tested on a long-term basis, and their use on large-scale systems is not as established or mature as APS’s existing technologies and equipment.  The implementation of new and additional technologies adds complexity to our information technology and operational technology systems, which could require additional infrastructure and resources.  Widespread installation and acceptance of new technologies could also enable the entry of new market participants, such as technology companies, into the interface between APS and its customers and could have other unpredictable effects on APS’s traditional business model. Deployment of renewable energy technologies is expected to continue across the western states and result in a larger portion of the overall energy production coming from these sources.  These trends, which have benefited from historical and continuing government support for certain technologies, have the potential to put downward pressure on wholesale power prices throughout the western states which could make APS’s existing generating facilities less economical and impact their operational patterns and long-term viability. We are subject to employee workforce factors that could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Like many companies in the electric utility industry, our workforce is maturing, with approximately 30% of employees eligible to retire by the end of 2026.  Although we have undertaken efforts to recruit, train and develop new employees, we face increased competition for talent.  We are subject to other employee workforce factors, such as the availability and retention of qualified personnel and the need to negotiate collective bargaining agreements with union employees.  Additionally, any regulatory changes requiring us to enforce a COVID-19 vaccine mandate could impact the availability of, and our ability to attract and retain, sufficient qualified employees.  These or other employee workforce factors could negatively impact our business, financial condition, or results of operations. COVID-19 could negatively affect our business. COVID-19 is a continually developing situation around the globe that has led to economic disruption and volatility in the financial markets.  The continued spread of COVID-19 and efforts to contain the virus and mitigate its public health effects, including but not limited to a vaccine mandate, could decrease demand for energy, lower economic growth, impact our employees and contractors, cause disruptions in our supply chain, increase certain costs, further increase volatility in the capital markets (and result in increases in the cost of capital or an inability to access the capital markets or draw on available credit facilities), delay the completion of capital or other construction projects and other operations and 42 maintenance activities, delay payments or increase uncollectable accounts, impact our ability to hire or retain qualified employees, or cause other unpredictable events, each of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, from March 2020 through April 2021, APS experienced higher electric residential sales and lower electric commercial and industrial sales and the cumulative impact on weather normalized retail electricity sales usage was a net increase as compared to 2019.  APS also experienced an increase in bad debt expense associated with the COVID-19 pandemic that resulted in a negative impact to its 2021 operating results.  In mid-March 2020, we drew on our revolving credit facilities as a result of the commercial paper markets failing to function normally due to COVID-19, but we were subsequently able to utilize the commercial paper market in April 2020 and we have paid down the revolving credit facilities completely.  We are also experiencing increased operations and maintenance expenses due to the need for personal protective equipment and other health and safety-related costs related to COVID-19. Despite our efforts to manage the impacts, the degree to which the COVID-19 pandemic and related actions ultimately impact our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows will depend on factors beyond our control including the duration, spread and severity of the outbreak, the actions taken to contain COVID-19 and mitigate its public health effects, including but not limited to a vaccine mandate, the impact on the U.S. and global economies and demand for energy, and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions resume. FINANCIAL RISKS A downgrade of our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our current ratings are set forth in “Liquidity and Capital Resources — Credit Ratings” in Item 7.  We cannot be sure that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant.  Any downgrade or withdrawal could adversely affect the market price of Pinnacle West’s and APS’s securities, limit our access to capital and increase our borrowing costs, which would adversely impact our financial results.  We could be required to pay a higher interest rate for future financings, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease.  In addition, borrowing costs under our existing credit facilities depend on our credit ratings.  A downgrade could also require us to provide additional support in the form of letters of credit or cash or other collateral to various counterparties.  If our short-term ratings were to be lowered, it could severely limit access to the commercial paper market.  We note that the ratings from rating agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities and that each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Investment performance, changing interest rates, new rules or regulations and other economic, social, and political factors could decrease the value of our benefit plan assets, nuclear decommissioning trust funds and other special use funds or increase the valuation of our related obligations, resulting in significant additional funding requirements.  We are also subject to risks related to the provision of employee healthcare benefits and healthcare reform legislation.  Any inability to fully recover these costs in our utility rates would negatively impact our financial condition. We have significant pension plan and other postretirement benefits plan obligations to our employees and retirees, and legal obligations to fund our pension trust and nuclear decommissioning trusts for Palo Verde.  We hold and invest substantial assets in these trusts that are designed to provide funds to pay for certain of these obligations as they arise.  Declines in market values of the fixed income and equity securities held in these trusts may increase our funding requirements into the related trusts.  Additionally, the valuation of liabilities related to our pension plan and other postretirement benefit plans are impacted 43 by a discount rate, which is the interest rate used to discount future pension and other postretirement benefit obligations.  Declining interest rates decrease the discount rate, increase the valuation of the plan liabilities, and may result in increases in pension and other postretirement benefit costs, cash contributions, regulatory assets, and charges to OCI.  Changes in demographics, including increased number of retirements or changes in life expectancy and changes in other actuarial assumptions, may also result in similar impacts.  The minimum contributions required under these plans are impacted by federal legislation and related regulations.  Increasing liabilities or otherwise increasing funding requirements under these plans, resulting from adverse changes in legislation or otherwise, could result in significant cash funding obligations that could have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We recover most of the pension and other postretirement benefit expense and all of the currently estimated nuclear decommissioning costs in our regulated rates.  Any inability to fully recover these costs in a timely manner could have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Pending or future federal or state legislative or regulatory activity or court proceedings could increase costs of providing medical insurance for our employees and retirees.  Any potential changes and resulting cost impacts cannot be determined with certainty at this time. Our cash flow depends on the performance of APS and its ability to make distributions. We derive essentially all of our revenues and earnings from our wholly-owned subsidiary, APS.  Accordingly, our cash flow and our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is dependent upon the earnings and cash flows of APS and its distributions to us.  APS is a separate and distinct legal entity and has no obligation to make distributions to us. APS’s financing agreements may restrict its ability to pay dividends, make distributions or otherwise transfer funds to us.  In addition, an ACC financing order requires APS to maintain a common equity ratio of at least 40% and does not allow APS to pay common dividends if the payment would reduce its common equity below that threshold.  The common equity ratio, as defined in the ACC order, is total shareholder equity divided by the sum of total shareholder equity and long-term debt, including current maturities of long-term debt. Pinnacle West’s ability to meet its debt service obligations could be adversely affected because its debt securities are structurally subordinated to the debt securities and other obligations of its subsidiaries. Because Pinnacle West is structured as a holding company, all existing and future debt and other liabilities of its subsidiaries will be effectively senior in right of payment to its own debt securities.  The assets and cash flows of our subsidiaries will be available, in the first instance, to service their own debt and other obligations.  Our ability to have the benefit of their cash flows, particularly in the case of any insolvency or financial distress affecting our subsidiaries, would arise only through our equity ownership interests in our subsidiaries and only after their creditors have been satisfied. The use of derivative contracts in the normal course of our business could result in financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. APS’s operations include managing market risks related to commodity prices.  APS is exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas, and coal to the extent that unhedged positions exist.  We have established procedures to manage risks associated with these market fluctuations by utilizing various commodity derivatives, including exchange traded futures and over-the-counter (“OTC”) forwards, options, and swaps.  As part of our overall risk management program, we enter into derivative transactions to hedge purchases and sales of electricity and natural gas.  The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged commodity.  To the extent that commodity markets are illiquid, we may not be able to execute our risk 44 management strategies, which could result in greater unhedged positions than we would prefer at a given time and financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”) contains measures aimed at increasing the transparency and stability of the over-the-counter derivative markets and preventing excessive speculation.  The Dodd-Frank Act could restrict, among other things, trading positions in the energy futures markets, require different collateral or settlement positions, or increase regulatory reporting over derivative positions.  Based on the provisions included in the Dodd-Frank Act and the implementation of regulations, these changes could, among other things, impact our ability to hedge commodity price and interest rate risk or increase the costs associated with our hedging programs. We are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance or nonpayment by counterparties.  We use a risk management process to assess and monitor the financial exposure of all counterparties.  Despite the fact that the majority of APS’s trading counterparties are rated as investment grade by the rating agencies, there is still a possibility that one or more of these companies could default, which could result in a material adverse impact on our earnings for a given period. GENERAL RISKS Proposals to change policy in Arizona or other states made through ballot initiatives or referenda may increase the Company’s cost of operations or impact its business plans. In Arizona and other states, a person or organization may file a ballot initiative or referendum with the Arizona Secretary of State or other applicable state agency and, if a sufficient number of verifiable signatures are presented, the initiative or referendum may be placed on the ballot for the public to vote on the matter.  Ballot initiatives and referenda may relate to any matter, including policy and regulation related to the electric industry, and may change statutes or the state constitution in ways that could impact Arizona utility customers, the Arizona economy, and the Company.  Some ballot initiatives and referenda are drafted in an unclear manner and their potential industry and economic impact can be subject to varied and conflicting interpretations.  We may oppose certain initiatives or referenda (including those that could result in negative impacts to our customers, the state, or the Company) via the electoral process, litigation, traditional legislative mechanisms, agency rulemaking or otherwise, which could result in significant costs to the Company.  The passage of certain initiatives or referenda could result in laws and regulations that impact our business plans and have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: • variations in our quarterly operating results; • operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts, and investors; • changes in expectations as to future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; • developments generally affecting industries in which we operate; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures, or capital commitments; • announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; • favorable or adverse regulatory or legislative developments; 45 • our dividend policy; • future sales by the Company of equity or equity-linked securities; and • general domestic and international economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company.  These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock Financial market disruptions or new rules or regulations may increase our financing costs or limit our access to various financial markets, which may adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to implement our financial strategy. Pinnacle West and APS rely on access to credit markets as a significant source of liquidity and the capital markets for capital requirements not satisfied by cash flow from our operations.  We believe that we will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets.  However, certain market disruptions or revisions to rules or regulations may cause our cost of borrowing to increase generally, and/or otherwise adversely affect our ability to access these financial markets. In addition, the credit commitments of our lenders under our bank facilities may not be satisfied or continued beyond current commitment periods for a variety of reasons, including new rules and regulations, changes to the internal policies of our lenders, periods of financial distress or liquidity issues affecting our lenders or financial markets, which could materially adversely affect the adequacy of our liquidity sources and the cost of maintaining these sources. Changes in economic conditions, monetary policy, fiscal policy, financial regulation, rating agency treatment or other factors could result in higher interest rates, which would increase interest expense on our existing variable rate debt and new debt we expect to issue in the future, and thus increase the cost and/or reduce the amount of funds available to us for our current plans. Additionally, an increase in our leverage, whether as a result of these factors or otherwise, could adversely affect us by: • causing a downgrade of our credit ratings; • increasing the cost of future debt financing and refinancing; • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; and • requiring us to dedicate an increased portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce funds available to us for operations, future investment in our business or other purposes. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and of Arizona law make it difficult for shareholders to change the composition of our board and may discourage takeover attempts. These provisions, which could preclude our shareholders from receiving a change of control premium, include the following: • restrictions on our ability to engage in a wide range of “business combination” transactions with an “interested shareholder” (generally, any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of our outstanding voting power, or any of our affiliates or associates who beneficially owned 10% or more of our outstanding voting power at any time during the prior three years) or any affiliate or associate of an interested shareholder, unless specific conditions are met; 46 • anti-greenmail provisions of Arizona law and our bylaws that prohibit us from purchasing shares of our voting stock from beneficial owners of more than 5% of our outstanding shares unless specified conditions are satisfied; • the ability of the Board of Directors to increase the size of and fill vacancies on the Board of Directors, whether resulting from such increase, or from death, resignation, disqualification or otherwise; • the ability of our Board of Directors to issue additional shares of common stock and shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and, with respect to preferred stock, the other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without shareholder approval; • restrictions that limit the rights of our shareholders to call a special meeting of shareholders; and • restrictions regarding the rights of our shareholders to nominate directors or to submit proposals to be considered at shareholder meetings. While these provisions may have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of us to negotiate with our Board of Directors, they could enable the Board of Directors to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of our shareholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. Refer to Part II, Item 7 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020 (filed with the SEC on February 8, 2021) for additional discussion of our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2019, as well as our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. Overview Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is a fully integrated biotechnology company that discovers, invents, develops, manufactures, and commercializes medicines for serious diseases. Our commercialized medicines and product candidates in development are designed to help patients with eye diseases, allergic and inflammatory diseases, cancer, cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, pain, hematologic conditions, infectious diseases, and rare diseases. We currently have nine FDA-approved products that have received marketing approval and over 30 product candidates in clinical development, almost all of which were homegrown in our laboratories. In addition, REGEN-COV has not been approved by the FDA, but has been authorized under an EUA for COVID-19 (see Part I, Item 1. "Business - REGEN-COV - Emergency and Temporary Use Authorizations" for a description of recent revisions to the EUA to exclude its use in geographic regions where infection or exposure is likely due to a variant that is not susceptible to the treatment). Also refer to Part I, Item 1. "Business - Products" and "Business - Programs in Clinical Development" for additional information related to marketed products and product candidates. Our ability to generate profits and to generate positive cash flow from operations over the next several years depends significantly on the continued success in commercializing EYLEA and Dupixent. We expect to continue to incur substantial expenses related to our research and development activities, a portion of which we expect to be reimbursed by our collaborators. Also, our research and development activities outside our collaborations, the costs of which are not reimbursed, are expected to expand and require additional resources. We also expect to incur substantial costs related to the commercialization of our marketed products. Our financial results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and will depend on, among other factors, the net sales of our products; the scope and progress of our research and development efforts; the timing of certain expenses; the continuation of our collaborations, in particular with Sanofi and Bayer, including our share of collaboration profits or losses from sales of products and the amount of reimbursement of our research and development expenses that we receive from collaborators; and the amount of income tax expense we incur, which is partly dependent on the profits or losses we earn in each of the countries in which we operate. We cannot predict whether or when new products or new indications for marketed products will receive regulatory approval or, if any such approval is received, whether we will be able to successfully commercialize such product(s) and whether or when they may become profitable. Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates A summary of the significant accounting policies that impact us is provided in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and related disclosures in the financial statements. Management considers an accounting estimate to be critical if: • it requires an assumption (or assumptions) regarding a future outcome; and • changes in the estimate or the use of different assumptions to prepare the estimate could have a material effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Management believes the current assumptions used to estimate amounts reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements are appropriate. However, if actual experience differs from the assumptions used in estimating amounts reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements, the resulting changes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, and, in certain situations, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. The critical accounting estimates that impact our Consolidated Financial Statements are described below. Revenue Recognition - Product Revenue We recognize revenue from product sales at a point in time when our customer is deemed to have obtained control of the product, which generally occurs upon receipt or acceptance by our customer. 78 The amount of revenue we recognize from product sales may vary due to rebates, chargebacks, and discounts provided under governmental and other programs, distribution-related fees, and other sales-related deductions. In order to determine the transaction price, we estimate, utilizing the expected value method, the amount of variable consideration to which we will be entitled. This estimate is based upon contracts with customers, healthcare providers, payors and government agencies, statutorily-defined discounts applicable to government-funded programs, historical experience, estimated payor mix, and other relevant factors. Calculating these provisions involves estimates and judgments. We review our estimates of rebates, chargebacks, and other applicable provisions each period and record any necessary adjustments in the current period's net product sales. Refer to the "Results of Operations - Revenues - Net Product Sales " section below for further details regarding our provisions, and credits/payments, for sales-related deductions. Collaborative Arrangements We have entered into various collaborative arrangements to research, develop, manufacture, and commercialize products and/or product candidates. Our collaboration agreements may require us to deliver various rights, services, and/or goods across the entire life cycle of a product or product candidate. In agreements involving multiple goods or services promised to be transferred to our collaborator, we must assess, at the inception of the contract, whether each promise represents a separate obligation (i.e., is "distinct"), or whether such promises should be combined as a single unit of account. When we have a combined unit of account which includes a license and providing research and development services to our collaborator, recognition of up-front payments and development milestones earned from our collaborator is deferred (as a liability) and recognized over the development period (i.e., over time). In arrangements where we satisfy our obligation(s) during the development phase over time, we recognize amounts initially deferred over time typically using an input method on the basis of our research and development costs incurred relative to the total expected cost which determines the extent of our progress toward completion. We review our estimates each period and make revisions to such estimates as necessary. Due to the variability in the scope of activities and length of time necessary to develop a drug product, potential delays in development programs, changes to development plans and budgets as programs progress, including if we and our collaborators decide to expand or contract our clinical plans for a drug candidate in various disease indications, and uncertainty in the ultimate requirements to obtain governmental approval for commercialization, revisions to our estimates are likely to occur periodically, potentially resulting in material changes to amounts recognized. When we are entitled to reimbursement of all or a portion of the expenses (e.g., research and development expenses) that we incur under a collaboration, we record those reimbursable amounts in the period in which such costs are incurred. If our collaborator performs research and development work or commercialization-related activities and share costs, we also recognize, as expense (e.g., research and development expense or selling, general and administrative expense, as applicable) in the period when our collaborator incurs such expenses, the portion of the collaborator's expenses that we are obligated to reimburse. Our collaborators provide us with estimated expenses for the most recent fiscal quarter. The estimates are revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual expenses differ from those estimates. Under certain of the Company's collaboration agreements, product sales and cost of sales may be recorded by the Company's collaborators as they are deemed to be the principal in the transaction. In arrangements where we: • supply commercial product to our collaborator, we may be reimbursed for our manufacturing costs as commercial product is shipped to the collaborator; however, recognition of such cost reimbursements may be deferred until the product is sold by our collaborator to third-party customers; • share in any profits or losses arising from the commercialization of such products, we record our share of the variable consideration, representing net product sales less cost of goods sold and shared commercialization and other expenses, in the period in which such underlying sales occur and costs are incurred by the collaborator; and • receive royalties and/or sales-based milestone payments from our collaborator, we recognize such amounts in the period earned. Our collaborators provide us with estimates of product sales and our share of profits or losses, as applicable, for each quarter. The estimates are revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if our share of actual profits or losses differ from those estimates. Stock-based Compensation We recognize stock-based compensation expense for equity grants under our long-term incentive plans to employees and non-employee members of our board of directors based on the grant-date fair value of those awards. The grant-date fair value of an award is generally recognized as compensation expense over the award's requisite service period. We use the Black-Scholes model to compute the estimated fair value of stock option awards. Using this model, fair value is calculated based on assumptions with respect to (i) expected volatility of our Common Stock price, (ii) the periods of time over 79 which employees and members of our board of directors are expected to hold their options prior to exercise (expected lives), (iii) expected dividend yield on our Common Stock, and (iv) risk-free interest rates, which are based on quoted U.S. Treasury rates for securities with maturities approximating the options' expected lives. Expected volatility has been estimated based on actual movements in our stock price over the most recent historical periods equivalent to the options' expected lives. Expected lives are principally based on our historical exercise experience with previously issued employee and board of director option grants. The expected dividend yield is zero as we have never paid dividends and do not currently anticipate paying any in the foreseeable future. Stock-based compensation expense also includes an estimate, which is made at the time of grant, of the number of awards that are expected to be forfeited. This estimate is revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. We use a Monte Carlo simulation to compute the estimated fair value of performance-based restricted stock units, which are subject to vesting based on the Company's attainment of pre-established market performance goals. The assumptions used in computing the fair value of equity awards reflect our best estimates but involve uncertainties related to market and other conditions, many of which are outside of our control. Changes in any of these assumptions may materially affect the fair value of awards granted and the amount of stock-based compensation recognized in future periods. Income Taxes We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the financial statements or tax returns, including deferred tax assets and liabilities for expected amounts of global intangible low-taxed income ("GILTI") inclusions. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined as the difference between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their respective financial reporting amounts ("temporary differences") at enacted tax rates in effect for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. A valuation allowance is established for deferred tax assets for which it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We periodically re-assess the need for a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets based on all available evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, results of recent operations, and our historical earnings experience by taxing jurisdiction. Significant judgment is required in making this assessment. Uncertain tax positions, for which management's assessment is that there is more than a 50% probability that the position will be sustained upon examination by a taxing authority based upon its technical merits, are subjected to certain recognition and measurement criteria. Significant judgment is required in making this assessment, and, therefore, we re-evaluate uncertain tax positions and consider various factors, including, but not limited to, changes in tax law, the measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in tax returns, and changes in facts or circumstances related to a tax position. We adjust the amount of the liability to reflect any subsequent changes in the relevant facts and circumstances surrounding the uncertain positions. Inventories We capitalize inventory costs associated with our products prior to regulatory approval when, based on management's judgment, future commercialization is considered probable and the future economic benefit is expected to be realized; otherwise, such costs are expensed. The determination to capitalize inventory costs is based on various factors, including status and expectations of the regulatory approval process, any known safety or efficacy concerns, potential labeling restrictions, and any other impediments to obtaining regulatory approval. We periodically analyze our inventory levels to identify inventory that may expire prior to expected sale or has a cost basis in excess of its estimated realizable value, and write down such inventories as appropriate. In addition, our products are subject to strict quality control and monitoring which we perform throughout the manufacturing process. If certain batches or units of product no longer meet quality specifications or become obsolete due to expiration, we record a charge to write down such inventory to its estimated realizable value. See Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to our inventory write-offs and reserves. Contingencies We accrue, based on management's judgment, for an estimated loss when the potential loss from claims or legal proceedings is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. As additional information becomes available, or, based on specific events such as the outcome of litigation or settlement of claims, we reassess the potential liability related to pending claims and litigation, and may change our estimates. 80 Results of Operations Net Income Revenues Net Product Sales Net product sales of EYLEA in the United States increased in 2021, compared to 2020, due to higher sales volume (including the adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on U.S. EYLEA demand during the three months ended June 30, 2020), partly offset by an increase in sales-related deductions. During the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, net product sales of REGEN-COV were recorded in connection with our agreements with the U.S. government. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had completed its final deliveries of drug product under its agreements with the U.S. government. Refer to Part I, Item 1. "Business - Agreements Related to COVID-19 - U.S. Government " for further details. The degree to which future sales of our COVID-19 monoclonal antibodies will continue is highly uncertain and will depend on, among other factors, the number of new COVID-19 cases and effectiveness of our product against variants of concern. Refer to Part I, Item 1. "Business - Products - REGEN-COV - Emergency and Temporary Use Authorizations"  for additional information. 81 Revenue from product sales is recorded net of applicable provisions for rebates, chargebacks, and discounts; distribution-related fees; and other sales-related deductions. The following table summarizes the provisions, and credits/payments, for sales-related deductions. Sanofi Collaboration Revenue Antibody The increase in our share of profits in connection with commercialization of antibodies in 2021, compared to 2020, was driven by higher Dupixent profits. During each of the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Company earned $50.0 million sales-based milestones from Sanofi, upon aggregate annual sales of antibodies outside the United States (including Praluent) exceeding $1.5 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, on a rolling twelve-month basis. We are entitled to receive up to an aggregate of $150.0 million in additional milestone payments from Sanofi, which includes the next sales milestone payment of $50.0 million that would be earned when such sales outside the United States exceed $2.0 billion on a rolling twelve-month basis. The increase in reimbursements for manufacturing of commercial supplies in 2021, compared to 2020, was primarily due to higher Dupixent sales, as revenue for such cost reimbursements is recognized when the product is sold by Sanofi to third-party customers. 82 Regeneron's share of profits in connection with the commercialization of Dupixent, Praluent (through March 31, 2020), and Kevzara is summarized below: As described in Part I, Item 1. "Business - Collaboration, License, and Other Agreements - Sanofi - Antibody", effective April 1, 2020, the Company became solely responsible for the development and commercialization of Praluent in the United States. Under the new agreement, Sanofi is solely responsible for the development and commercialization of Praluent outside of the United States, and pays the Company a 5% royalty on Sanofi’s net product sales of Praluent outside the United States. Bayer Collaboration Revenue Bayer records net product sales of EYLEA outside the United States. Regeneron's net profit in connection with commercialization of EYLEA outside the United States is summarized below: 83 Roche Collaboration Revenue As described in Part I, Item 1. "Business - Agreements Related to COVID-19 - Roche", Roche distributes and records net product sales of the casirivimab and imdevimab antibody cocktail outside the United States, and the parties share gross profits from worldwide sales, depending on the amount of manufactured product supplied by each party to the market. Each quarter, a single payment is due from one party to the other to true-up the global gross profits between the parties. If Regeneron is to receive a true-up payment from Roche, such amount will be recorded to Other collaboration revenue. If Regeneron is to make a true-up payment to Roche, such amount will be recorded to Cost of goods sold. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company recorded $361.8 million of true-up payments, within Other collaboration revenue, from Roche in connection with this agreement. Other Revenue Other revenue decreased in 2021, compared to 2020, primarily due to lower amounts recognized in connection with our agreement with BARDA related to funding of certain development activities for COVID-19 antibodies, and, to a lesser extent, Inmazeb. Expenses Operating expenses in 2021, 2020, and 2019 included a total of $601.7 million, $432.0 million, and $464.3 million, respectively, of non-cash compensation expense related to equity awards granted under our long-term incentive plans. As of December 31, 2021, unrecognized non-cash compensation expense related to unvested stock options and unvested restricted stock (including performance-based restricted stock units) was $515.9 million and $857.1 million, respectively. We expect to recognize this non-cash compensation expense related to stock options and restricted stock over weighted-average periods of 1.8 years and 3.0 years, respectively. 84 Research and Development Expenses The following table summarizes our estimates of direct research and development expenses by clinical development program and other significant categories of research and development expenses. Direct research and development expenses are comprised primarily of costs paid to third parties for clinical and product development activities, including costs related to preclinical research activities, clinical trials, and the portion of research and development expenses incurred by our collaborators that we are obligated to reimburse. Indirect research and development expenses have not been allocated directly to each program, and primarily consist of costs to compensate personnel, overhead and infrastructure costs to maintain our facilities, and other costs related to activities that benefit multiple projects. Clinical manufacturing costs primarily consist of costs to manufacture bulk drug product for clinical development purposes as well as related external drug filling, packaging, and labeling costs. Clinical manufacturing costs also includes pre-launch commercial supplies which did not meet the criteria to be capitalized as inventory (see "Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates - Inventories" above). The table below also includes reimbursements of research and development expenses by collaborators, as when we are entitled to reimbursement of all or a portion of such expenses that we incur under a collaboration, we record those reimbursable amounts in the period in which such costs are incurred. Research and development expenses in 2021 included $34.0 million in aggregate up-front payments in connection with our collaboration agreement with Nykode Therapeutics, in 2020 included $85.0 million in aggregate up-front payments in connection with our collaboration agreement with Intellia, and in 2019 included a $400.0 million up-front payment to Alnylam. Research and development expenses included non-cash compensation expense of $316.6 million and $238.6 million in 2021 and 2020, respectively. Reimbursement of research and development expenses by collaborators included reimbursements from Roche related to REGEN-COV of $128.1 million and $78.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. There are numerous uncertainties associated with drug development, including uncertainties related to safety and efficacy data from each phase of drug development, uncertainties related to the enrollment and performance of clinical trials, changes in 85 regulatory requirements, changes in the competitive landscape affecting a product candidate, and other risks and uncertainties described in Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors" (including those relating to the disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic). There is also variability in the duration and costs necessary to develop a pharmaceutical product, potential opportunities and/or uncertainties related to future indications to be studied, and the estimated cost and scope of the projects. The lengthy process of seeking FDA and other applicable approvals, and subsequent compliance with applicable statutes and regulations, require the expenditure of substantial resources. Any failure by us to obtain, or delay in obtaining, regulatory approvals could materially adversely affect our business. We are unable to reasonably estimate if our product candidates in clinical development will generate material product revenues and net cash inflows. Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased in 2021, compared to 2020, primarily due to an increase in commercialization-related expenses for (i) EYLEA, including direct-to-consumer advertising, (ii) REGEN-COV, including costs associated with educational campaigns related to COVID-19, and (iii) Libtayo; and higher headcount-related costs. In addition, in 2020, we recorded a reversal of accruals for litigation-related loss contingencies as a result of the October 2020 ruling by the Technical Board of Appeal of the EPO and its impact on certain patent infringement actions in Europe relating to Praluent (see Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details). Selling, general, and administrative expenses also included $213.3 million and $153.0 million of non-cash compensation expense in 2021 and 2020, respectively. Cost of Goods Sold Cost of goods sold increased in 2021, compared to 2020, primarily due to the recognition of manufacturing costs in connection with the product sales of REGEN-COV. During 2021, the Company also recorded a $259.6 million true-up payment owed in connection with global gross profits under our Roche collaboration agreement described above. Additionally, during the fourth quarter of 2021, the Company recorded a $231.7 million charge to write down its REGEN-COV inventory as a result of data that showed REGEN-COV was highly unlikely to be active against the Omicron variant and the FDA revision of the EUA for REGEN-COV, pursuant to which REGEN-COV was no longer authorized for use in any U.S. states, territories, or jurisdictions. Refer to Part I, Item 1. "Business - Products - REGEN-COV - Emergency and Temporary Use Authorizations" for additional information. Cost of Collaboration and Contract Manufacturing Cost of collaboration and contract manufacturing increased in 2021, compared to 2020, primarily due to the recognition of manufacturing costs associated with higher sales of Dupixent, partly offset by lower costs in connection with manufacturing ex-U.S. commercial supplies of Praluent for Sanofi and the recognition of process validation costs during 2020 in connection with manufacturing Inmazeb under our BARDA agreement as such costs did not recur during 2021. Other Operating (Income) Expense Other operating (income) expense, net, includes recognition of a portion of amounts previously deferred in connection with up-front and development milestone payments, as applicable, received in connection with Sanofi IO, Teva, and MTPC collaborative arrangements. In these arrangements, we satisfy our obligation(s) during the development phase over time, and, as a result, recognize amounts initially deferred over time using an input method on the basis of our research and development costs incurred relative to the total expected cost which determines the extent of our progress toward completion. See the Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates section above for further details. During 2021, we updated our estimate of the total research and development costs expected to be incurred (which resulted in a change to the estimate of the stage of completion) in connection with the Sanofi IO Collaboration, and, as a result, recorded a cumulative catch-up adjustment of $66.9 million as a reduction to other operating income. During 2020, we updated our estimate of the total research and development costs expected to be incurred (which resulted in changes to the estimate of the stage of completion) in connection with the Sanofi IO, Teva, and MTPC collaboration agreements, and therefore recorded cumulative catch-up adjustments of $99.8 million, net, as an increase to other operating income. Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense), net, was $379.0 million in 2021, compared to $233.8 million in 2020. This change was primarily driven by an increase in unrealized gains on equity securities of $190.1 million. 86 Income Taxes Our effective tax rate for 2021 was positively impacted, compared to the U.S. federal statutory rate, primarily by income earned in foreign jurisdictions with tax rates lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate and stock-based compensation. Our effective tax rate for 2020 was positively impacted, compared to the U.S. federal statutory rate, primarily by stock-based compensation, and, to a lesser extent, federal tax credits for research activities and income earned in foreign jurisdictions with tax rates lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our financial condition is summarized as follows: As of December 31, 2021, we also had borrowing availability of $750.0 million under a revolving credit facility (see further description under " Credit Facility " below). Sources and Uses of Cash for the Years Ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019 87 Cash Flows from Operating Activities 2021 As of December 31, 2021, Accounts receivable had increased by $1.927 billion, compared to December 31, 2020, primarily due to REGEN-COV sales in connection with our September 2021 agreement to supply drug product to the U.S. government. Other non-cash items, net, in 2021 included inventory write-offs and reserves totaling $457.1 million, primarily related to REGEN-COV. Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities as of December 31, 2021 included a $259.6 million fourth quarter 2021 true-up payment owed in connection with global gross profits under our Roche collaboration agreement. 2020 As of December 31, 2020, Accounts receivable had increased by $1.356 billion, compared to December 31, 2019, partly as a result of extending payment terms to EYLEA customers due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Inventories increased as of December 31, 2020, compared to December 31, 2019, partially as a result of purchasing additional raw materials in anticipation of potential disruptions to our supply chain due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 2019 Deferred taxes as of December 31, 2019 increased by $130.6 million, compared to December 31, 2018, primarily due to the tax treatment of the up-front payment made to Alnylam and non-cash compensation expense. Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities as of December 31, 2019 increased compared to December 31, 2018 partially due to the impact of the receipt of a $461.9 million payment from Sanofi in connection with the termination of the 2015 IO Discovery Agreement. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Sales of marketable securities in 2020 included proceeds in connection with funding our stock repurchase from Sanofi (as described below). In 2019, we purchased $400.0 million of Alnylam common stock in connection with entering into the collaboration agreement. Capital expenditures in 2021 included costs associated with the expansion of our manufacturing facilities in Rensselaer, New York (including the ongoing construction of a fill/finish facility and related equipment) and Limerick, Ireland, as well as initial costs incurred in connection with our planned expansion of the Tarrytown, New York campus. We expect to incur capital expenditures of $650 million to $730 million in 2022 primarily in connection with the continued expansion of our manufacturing facilities (including the fill/finish facility) and the expansion of our research, preclinical manufacturing, and support facilities at our Tarrytown, New York campus. We also expect continued significant capital expenditures over the next several years in connection with the planned expansion of our Tarrytown, New York campus. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Proceeds from issuances of Common Stock, in connection with exercises of employee stock options, were $1.672 billion during 2021, compared to $2.575 billion during 2020 and $211.8 million during 2019. For additional information related to cash flows from financing activities, see "Share Repurchase Program", "Sanofi Funding of Certain Development Costs", "Secondary Offering and Purchase of Regeneron Common Stock Held by Sanofi", and "Issuance of Senior Notes" sections below. Credit Facility In December 2018, we entered into an agreement with a syndicate of lenders (the "Credit Agreement") which provides for a $750.0 million senior unsecured five-year revolving credit facility (the "Credit Facility"). The Credit Agreement includes an option for us to elect to increase the commitments under the Credit Facility and/or to enter into one or more tranches of term loans in the aggregate principal amount of up to $250.0 million, subject to the consent of the lenders providing the additional commitments or term loans, as applicable, and certain other conditions. Proceeds of the loans under the Credit Facility may be used to finance working capital needs, and for general corporate or other lawful purposes, of Regeneron and its subsidiaries. The Credit Agreement also provides a $50.0 million sublimit for letters of credit. The Credit Agreement includes an option for us to elect to extend the maturity date of the Credit Facility beyond December 2023, subject to the consent of the extending lenders and certain other conditions. Amounts borrowed under the Credit Facility may be prepaid, and the commitments under the Credit Facility may be terminated, at any time without premium or penalty. We had no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility as of December 31, 2021. The Credit Agreement contains financial and operating covenants. Financial covenants include a maximum total leverage ratio and a minimum interest expense coverage ratio. We were in compliance with all covenants of the Credit Facility as of December 31, 2021. 88 Share Repurchase Programs In November 2019, our board of directors authorized a share repurchase program to repurchase up to $1.0 billion of our Common Stock. The share repurchase program permitted the Company to make repurchases through a variety of methods, including open-market transactions (including pursuant to a trading plan adopted in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act), privately negotiated transactions, accelerated share repurchases, block trades, and other transactions in compliance with Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act. As of December 31, 2020, the Company had repurchased the entire $1.0 billion of its Common Stock that it was authorized to repurchase under the program. In January 2021, our board of directors authorized a share repurchase program to repurchase up to $1.5 billion of our Common Stock. The share repurchase program was approved under terms substantially similar to the November 2019 share repurchase program. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had repurchased the entire $1.5 billion of its Common Stock that it was authorized to repurchase under the program. In November 2021, our board of directors authorized an additional share repurchase program to repurchase up to $3.0 billion of our Common Stock. The share repurchase program was approved under terms substantially similar to the share repurchase programs above. Repurchases may be made from time to time at management’s discretion, and the timing and amount of any such repurchases will be determined based on share price, market conditions, legal requirements, and other relevant factors. The program has no time limit and can be discontinued at any time. There can be no assurance as to the timing or number of shares of any repurchases in the future. We plan to finance the share repurchase program with available cash. As of December 31, 2021, $2.845 billion remained available for share repurchases under the November 2021 program. The table below summarizes the shares of our Common Stock we repurchased under the programs described above and the cost of the shares received, which were recorded as Treasury Stock. Sanofi Funding of Certain Development Costs Pursuant to a 2018 agreement, we agreed to allow Sanofi to satisfy in whole or in part its funding obligations with respect to Libtayo development and/or certain activities relating to dupilumab and itepekimab incurred in periods through September 30, 2020 by selling shares of our Common Stock owned by Sanofi. During 2020, Sanofi elected to sell, and we elected to purchase, shares of our Common Stock to satisfy Sanofi's funding obligation related to such activities. Consequently, we recorded the cost of the shares received, or $135.0 million, as Treasury Stock during 2020. In addition, during 2019, Sanofi elected to sell, and we elected to purchase, shares of our Common Stock to satisfy Sanofi's funding obligation. Consequently, we recorded the cost of the shares received, or $102.7 million, as Treasury Stock during 2019. Secondary Offering and Purchase of Regeneron Common Stock Held by Sanofi In May 2020, a secondary offering of 13,014,646 shares of our Common Stock (the "Secondary Offering") held by Sanofi was completed. In connection with the Secondary Offering, we also purchased 9,806,805 shares of our Common Stock directly from Sanofi for an aggregate purchase amount of $5.0 billion (the "Stock Purchase"). We funded the Stock Purchase with a combination of cash on hand, proceeds from the sale of marketable securities, and proceeds from loans under a $1.5 billion senior unsecured bridge loan facility (the "Bridge Facility") which was entered into in May 2020. The Bridge Facility was repaid in August 2020 following the issuance and sale of the Company's senior unsecured notes. Issuance of Senior Notes In August 2020, we issued and sold $1.250 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes due 2030 (the "2030 Notes") and $750 million aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes due 2050 (the "2050 Notes" and, together with the 2030 Notes, the "Notes"). Net proceeds from the issuance and sale of the Notes (after deducting underwriting discounts and offering expenses) were used in part to repay in full the Bridge Facility described above, including accrued interest and related fees and expenses in connection therewith. The 2030 Notes accrue interest at the rate of 1.750% per year and will mature on September 15, 2030. The 2050 Notes accrue interest at the rate of 2.800% per year and will mature on September 15, 2050. Interest on each series of Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year until their respective maturity dates. 89 The Notes may be redeemed at the Company’s option at any time at 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, and, until a specified period before maturity, a specified make-whole amount. The Notes contain a change-of-control provision that, under certain circumstances, may require the Company to offer to repurchase the Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. The Notes also contain certain limitations on the Company’s ability to incur liens and enter into sale and leaseback transactions, as well as customary events of default. Tarrytown, New York Leases We lease laboratory and office facilities in Tarrytown, New York (the "Facility"). In 2016, we entered into a Purchase Agreement with the then lessor, pursuant to which we agreed to purchase the Facility for a purchase price of $720.0 million. In March 2017, we entered into a Participation Agreement with BA Leasing BSC, LCC, and affiliate of Banc of America Leasing & Capital, LLC ("BAL"), as lessor, and a syndicate of lenders (collectively with BAL, the "Lease Participants"), which provided for lease financing in connection with the acquisition by BAL of the Facility and our lease of the Facility from BAL. In March 2017, we assigned our right to take title to the Facility under the Purchase Agreement to BAL, and the Lease Participants advanced $720.0 million, which was used by BAL to finance the purchase price for the Facility. Concurrent with entering into the Participation Agreement, we also entered into a lease agreement (the "Lease") for the Facility with BAL for a five-year term ending in March 2022. The Lease requires us to pay all maintenance, insurance, taxes, and other costs arising out of the use of the Facility. We are also required to make monthly payments of basic rent during the term of the Lease in an amount equal to a variable rate per annum based on the one-month LIBOR, plus an applicable margin that varies with our debt rating and total leverage ratio. The Participation Agreement and the Lease include an option for us to elect to extend the maturity date of the Participation Agreement and the term of the Lease for an additional five-year period, subject to the consent of all the Lease Participants and certain other conditions. We also have the option prior to the end of the term of the Lease to (a) purchase the Facility by paying an amount equal to the outstanding principal amount of the Lease Participants' advances under the Participation Agreement, all accrued and unpaid interest and yield thereon, and all other outstanding amounts under the Participation Agreement, the Lease, and certain related documents or (b) sell the Facility to a third party on behalf of BAL. The advances under the Participation Agreement mature, and all amounts outstanding thereunder will become due and payable in full at the end of the term of the Lease. In September 2021, we delivered a request to the Lease Participants to potentially exercise the option for a five-year extension of the term of the Lease and the maturity date under the Participation Agreement. In November 2021, the Lease Participants consented to such extension, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions prior to the expiration of the existing term in March 2022, including the negotiation and execution of satisfactory definitive documentation setting forth the terms and conditions that would apply during such potential extended term. We are negotiating such documentation with the Lease Participants, but there can be no assurance that such extension will become effective. The agreements governing the Lease financing contain financial and operating covenants. Such financial covenants and certain of the operating covenants are substantially similar to the covenants set forth in our Credit Facility. We were in compliance with all such covenants as of December 31, 2021. Additional Funding Requirements The amount required to fund operations will depend on various factors, including the potential regulatory approval and commercialization of our product candidates and the timing thereof and the extent and cost of our research and development programs. We believe that our existing capital resources, borrowing availability under the Credit Facility, funds generated by anticipated product sales, and, as described above under Part I, Item 1. "Business - Collaboration, License, and Other Agreements," funding for reimbursement of research and development costs that we are entitled to receive under our collaboration agreements, will enable us to meet our anticipated operating needs for the foreseeable future. We expect continued increases in our expenditures, particularly in connection with our research and development activities (including preclinical and clinical programs). The amount of funding that will be required for our clinical programs depends upon the results of our research and preclinical programs and early-stage clinical trials, regulatory requirements, the duration and results of clinical trials underway and of additional clinical trials that we decide to initiate, and the various factors that affect the cost of each trial, including the size of trials, fees charged for services provided by clinical trial investigators and other third parties, the costs for manufacturing the product candidate for use in the trials, and other expenses. Under certain collaboration agreements, the amount of funding for reimbursement of research and development costs that we are entitled to receive is capped at a specified amount; therefore, we may elect to independently fund certain research and development costs in excess of such capped amounts. 90 We expect to continue to incur development and manufacturing costs for our COVID-19 monoclonal antibodies in 2022, though the amount of funding that will be required will be subject to clinical data results, quantity of drug supply manufactured, the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic, and other factors, including regulatory outcomes, as described in Part I. We anticipate continuing to incur substantial commercialization costs for EYLEA, Dupixent, and Libtayo. Commercialization costs over the next few years will depend on, among other things, the market potential for product candidates, whether commercialization costs are shared with a collaborator, and regulatory approval of additional product candidates. We expect that expenses related to the filing, prosecution, defense, and enforcement of patents and other intellectual property will be substantial. Liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits totaled $410.9 million at December 31, 2021. Due to their nature, there is a high degree of uncertainty regarding the period and amounts of potential future cash settlement with tax authorities. See Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 requires the capitalization and amortization of research and development expenses effective for years beginning after December 31, 2021, which we expect will have a material impact on our cash flows beginning in 2022. We enter into collaboration and licensing agreements that may require us to pay (i) amounts contingent upon the occurrence of various future events (e.g., upon the achievement of various development and commercial milestones), which, in the aggregate, could be significant, and/or (ii) royalties calculated based on a percentage of net product sales. The payment of these amounts, however, is contingent upon the occurrence of various future events, which have a high degree of uncertainty of occurring and for which the specific timing cannot be predicted. See Note 3 and Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Under our collaboration with Bayer for EYLEA outside the United States and our Antibody and IO Collaborations with Sanofi, we and our collaborator share profits and losses in connection with commercialization of drug products. If the applicable collaboration is profitable, we have contingent contractual obligations to reimburse Bayer and Sanofi for a defined percentage (generally 50%) of agreed-upon development expenses funded by Bayer and Sanofi (i.e., "development balance"). These reimbursements are deducted each quarter, in accordance with a formula, from our share of the collaboration profits (and, for our EYLEA collaboration with Bayer, inclusive of our percentage on product sales in Japan) otherwise payable to us, unless, in the case of EYLEA, we elect to reimburse these expenses at a faster rate. As of December 31, 2021, our contingent reimbursement obligation to Bayer for EYLEA was approximately $282 million and our contingent reimbursement obligation to Sanofi in connection with the companies' Antibody Collaboration and IO Collaboration was approximately $3.152 billion and $103 million, respectively. Therefore, we expect that, for the foreseeable future, a portion of our share of profits from sales under our collaborations with Bayer and Sanofi will be used to reimburse our collaborators for these obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that are currently material or reasonably likely to be material to our consolidated financial position or results of operations. Future Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards As of December 31, 2021, the future adoption of recently issued accounting standards is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations.