********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We currently rely on sales of our Omnipod product platform to generate nearly all our revenue. We expect to continue to derive nearly all our revenue from our Omnipod product platform. Accordingly, our ability to continue to generate revenue is highly reliant on our ability to market and sell our Omnipod products and to retain consumers who currently use the product. Our sales of Omnipod products may be negatively impacted by many factors, including: • development of an effective patch pump by one or more competitors or breakthrough diabetes treatments not requiring the delivery of insulin; • failure of our Omnipod products to achieve and maintain wide acceptance among opinion leaders in the diabetes treatment community, insulin-prescribing physicians, third-party payors, and people with insulin-dependent diabetes; • manufacturing problems or capacity constraints; • actual or perceived quality problems; • reductions in reimbursement rates or coverage policies relating to Omnipod products by third-party payors; • claims that any portion of Omnipod products infringes on intellectual property rights of others; • adverse regulatory or legal actions relating to our Omnipod products; • damage, destruction or loss of any of the facilities where our products are manufactured or stored or of the equipment therein; • failure to successfully open or expand new facilities; • the inability of users to continue paying for our products; • attrition rates of consumers who cease using Omnipod products; • competitive pricing; and • results of clinical studies relating to Omnipod products or our competitors’ products. If any of these events occur, our ability to generate revenue could be significantly reduced, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we fail to expand and maintain an effective sales force or successfully develop and maintain our relationships with intermediaries, our business, prospects and brand may be materially and adversely affected. In addition to promoting, marketing, and selling Omnipod products through our own direct sales force, we also utilize domestic and international intermediaries to distribute our product to users. We need to expand our distribution network to maintain and grow our business and revenue. If we are not able to successfully develop our relationships with third-party intermediaries, our sales could fail to grow or could decline, and our ability to grow our business could be adversely affected. Intermediaries that are in the business of selling other medical products may not devote a sufficient level of resources and the support required to generate awareness of our products and grow or maintain our product sales. If our intermediaries are unwilling or unable to market and sell our products, or if they do not perform to our expectations, we could experience delayed or reduced market acceptance and sales of our products, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our ability to grow our revenue depends in part on our retaining a high percentage of our customers. A key to driving our revenue growth is the retention of a high percentage of our customers. Current uncertainty in global economic conditions, competition, higher levels of unemployment, changes in insurance reimbursement levels, and negative financial news may negatively affect product demand. If demand for our products fluctuates as a result of economic conditions, competition or otherwise, our ability to attract and retain customers could be harmed. The failure to retain a high percentage of our customers could negatively impact our revenue growth and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we do not effectively manage our rapid growth, our business resources may become strained and we may not be able to deliver our products in a timely manner, which could adversely affect our results of operations. As we continue to expand the number of customers we serve, driven in large part by significant demand for Omnipod 5, we expect to continue to increase our manufacturing capacity, our personnel, and the scope of our sales and marketing efforts. This growth, as well as any other growth that we may experience in the future, will create challenges for our organization and may strain our management and operations resources, including our customer service. In order to manage future growth, we will be required to improve existing, and implement new, sales and marketing efforts, distribution channels, and customer support procedures. In addition, the form and function of our enterprise information technology systems will need to change and be 15 improved upon as our business needs change. For example, we recently implemented a new enterprise resource planning system and plan to upgrade our customer relationship management system. We will also need to manage our supply chain and manufacturing effectively, including our sourcing of materials such as semiconductor chips. We may also need to partner with additional third-party suppliers to manufacture certain components of our Omnipod products and install additional manufacturing lines, including as a part of our newly constructed facility in Malaysia. A transition to new suppliers may result in additional costs or delays. We may misjudge the amount of time or resources that will be required to effectively manage any anticipated or unanticipated growth in our business, or we may not be able to manufacture sufficient inventory, or attract, hire and retain sufficient personnel to meet our needs. If we cannot scale our business appropriately, maintain control over expenses or otherwise adapt to anticipated and unanticipated growth, our business resources may become strained, we may not be able to deliver our Omnipod products in a timely manner, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. Failure to secure or retain adequate coverage or reimbursement for our products by third-party payors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We expect that sales of our Omnipod products, which, for Omnipod 5, occur only through the pharmacy channel in the U.S. and for Omnipod DASH, primarily through the pharmacy channel, will be limited unless a substantial portion of their sales price is paid for by third-party payors, including private insurance companies, health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations, federal and state government healthcare agencies, intermediaries, Medicare, Medicaid and other managed care providers. In the United States, we currently have contracts establishing reimbursement for Omnipod products with national and regional third-party payors and government agencies that provide reimbursement in all 50 states. Medicare Part D Plan Sponsors may provide coverage for Omnipod products under the Medicare Part D prescription drug program, which requires negotiating with third-party payors in order to provide our product through the pharmacy channel in the United States. While we anticipate entering into additional contracts with other intermediaries and third-party payors, we cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful, which could limit the availability of Omnipod products. In addition, these contracts can generally be terminated by the third-party payor without cause. Healthcare market initiatives in the United States may also lead third-party payors to decline or reduce reimbursement for Omnipod products. Moreover, compliance with administrative procedures or requirements of third-party payors may result in delays in processing approvals by those payors for consumers to obtain coverage for the use of Omnipod products and for payment to be made for such use. Coverage decisions and rates of reimbursement increasingly require clinical evidence showing an improvement in user outcomes. Generating this clinical evidence requires substantial time and investment and there is no guarantee of a desired outcome. As we expand our sales and marketing efforts internationally, we face additional risks associated with obtaining and maintaining reimbursement from foreign healthcare payment systems on a timely basis or at all. Failure to secure or retain adequate coverage or reimbursement for our products by third-party payors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Healthcare reform laws could adversely affect our revenue and financial condition. During the past several years, the U.S. healthcare industry has been subject to an increase in governmental regulation at both the federal and state levels. Efforts to control healthcare costs, including limiting access to care, alternative delivery models, and changes in the methods used to determine reimbursement scenarios and rates, are ongoing at the federal and state government levels. It is unclear how the ACA and its implementation, as well as efforts to repeal or replace, or invalidate, the ACA, or portions thereof, will affect our business. Additional legislative changes, regulatory changes, and judicial challenges related to the ACA remain possible. It is possible that the ACA, as currently enacted or as it may be amended in the future, and other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, could have an adverse effect on our industry and on our ability to maintain or increase sales of any of our products. Risks Related to Competition, Product Development and Intellectual Property Our failure to compete effectively would negatively impact our revenue. The competitive landscape in our industry continues to undergo significant change. We compete with companies that produce insulin pumps, such as Medtronic, Tandem, The Ypsomed Group and Roche Diabetes Care, Inc (“Roche”). In addition to the established insulin pump competitors, we compete with companies that provide products and supplies for MDI therapy. MDI therapy, including smart pens, can be substantially less expensive than pump therapy, and improvements in the effectiveness of MDI therapy may result in fewer people with insulin-dependent diabetes converting from MDI therapy to pump therapy than we expect, which could result in price pressure and decreased revenue. In addition, some of our competitors, such as Medtronic and Roche, are large, well-capitalized companies with more resources than we have. These companies may have competitive advantages over us, including: 16 • significantly greater name recognition; • different and more complete reimbursement profiles; • established relations with healthcare professionals, customers, and third-party payors; • larger and more established distribution networks; • greater experience in conducting research and development, clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing, and obtaining regulatory approval; and • greater financial and human resources for product development, sales and marketing, and patent litigation. As a result, we may not be able to compete effectively against these companies or their products, which may adversely impact our business. Our current competitors or other companies may at any time develop additional products for the treatment of diabetes. Several companies are working to develop and market new insulin “patch” pumps, smart pens, and other methods for the treatment of diabetes. If an existing or future competitor develops a product that competes with or is superior to our Omnipod products, our revenue may decline. In addition, some of our competitors may compete by changing their pricing model or by lowering the price of their insulin delivery systems or ancillary supplies. If these competitors’ products were to gain acceptance by healthcare professionals, people with insulin-dependent diabetes, or third-party payors, we could experience pricing pressure. If prices were to fall, our results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. Technological breakthroughs in diabetes monitoring, treatment, or prevention could render our Omnipod products obsolete or less desirable. The diabetes treatment market is subject to rapid technological change and product innovation. Our Omnipod products are based on our proprietary technology, but a number of companies, medical researchers, and pharmaceutical companies are pursuing new delivery devices, delivery technologies, sensing technologies, procedures, drugs, and other therapeutics for the monitoring, treatment, and/or prevention of insulin-dependent diabetes. In addition, well-capitalized biopharmaceutical companies like Vertex Pharmaceuticals, the National Institutes of Health, and other supporters of diabetes research, are continually seeking ways to prevent, cure, or improve the treatment of diabetes. Any breakthroughs in diabetes monitoring, treatment or prevention could reduce the potential market for our products or render our products obsolete altogether, which would significantly reduce our sales or cause our sales to grow at a slower rate than we currently expect. In addition, even the perception that new products may be introduced, or that technological or treatment advancements could occur, could cause consumers to delay the purchase of our products or impact our stock price. In 2023, for example, ongoing adoption of the GLP-1 class of drugs in diabetes and news surrounding the expansion of use of GLP-1 drugs in obesity led to speculation regarding the impact on the insulin therapy market. We believe this speculation was the cause of a decline in our stock price in 2023. Our own new product development initiatives may prove to be ineffective or not commercially successful. The healthcare industry is characterized by continuous technological change, resulting in changing consumer preferences and requirements. If we are unable to introduce and market new products and keep pace with advances in technology, our business will be negatively impacted. To compete in the marketplace, we must make substantial investments in new product development whether internally or externally through licensing or acquisitions. Even if we can develop, manufacture, and obtain regulatory and reimbursement approvals for our new products, the success of those products depends on market acceptance. Market acceptance for our new products could be affected by several factors, including the availability of alternative products from our competitors, the price of our products, the timing of our market entry, and our ability to market and distribute our products effectively. Our failure to introduce new and innovative products in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. If the third parties on which we rely to conduct our clinical trials and to assist us with pre-clinical development do not perform as contractually required or expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory clearance or approval or commercialize our products. We rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators, contract laboratories, and other third parties to conduct some of our clinical trials and pre-clinical investigations. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our pre-clinical development activities or clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended, or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, our products on a timely basis, or at all, and our business and operating results may be adversely affected. Furthermore, our third-party clinical trial investigators may be delayed in conducting our clinical trials for reasons outside of their control. 17 Future market or clinical studies may be unfavorable to our Omnipod products and their efficacy, which could hinder our sales efforts and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. To help improve, market, and sell our Omnipod products, we have sponsored, and expect to continue to sponsor market studies to assess various aspects of the functionality and relative efficacy of our products. The data obtained from the studies may be unfavorable to our products or may be inadequate to support satisfactory conclusions. In addition, in the future we may sponsor clinical trials to assess certain aspects of the efficacy of our products. If future clinical trials fail to support the efficacy of our current or future products, our sales may be adversely affected and we may lose an opportunity to secure clinical preference from prescribing clinicians, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, future clinical studies or articles regarding our existing products or any competing products may be published that either support a claim, or are perceived to support a claim, that a competitor’s product is clinically more effective or easier to use than our products or that our products are not as effective or easy to use as we claim. Additionally, diabetes associations, healthcare providers that focus on diabetes, or other organizations that may be viewed as authoritative could endorse products or methods that compete with our products or otherwise announce positions that are unfavorable to our products. Any of these events may negatively affect our sales efforts and result in decreased revenue. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Our success depends in part on our ability to develop or acquire commercially valuable intellectual property rights and to protect those rights adequately. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws, confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment of invention agreements, and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite these measures, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, or misappropriated. We may not be able to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable, and we cannot ensure that our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents to us. To protect our intellectual property, we may need to assert claims of infringement or misappropriation against third parties. Any lawsuits that we initiate could be expensive, take significant time, and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. The outcome of litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights is highly unpredictable. A court could determine that some or all of our asserted intellectual property rights are not infringed or misappropriated, or are invalid, or unenforceable. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate, and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially valuable. Additionally, we may provoke third parties to assert claims against us, and we may not be successful defending against these claims. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Claims that our current or future products infringe or misappropriate the proprietary rights of others could adversely affect our ability to sell those products and cause us to incur additional costs. We have been involved in patent infringement suits in the past and may be again in the future. As our revenue increases, the number of companies with whom we compete grows, and the functionality of products and technology in different industry segments overlaps, the risk of third-party infringement claims increases. Third parties may currently have, or may eventually be issued, patents on which our current or future products or technologies may be alleged to infringe. Any of these third parties might make a claim of infringement against us. Such litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in the expenditure of significant financial resources and the diversion of management’s time and resources. In addition, such litigation could cause negative publicity, adversely affect prospective users, cause product shipment delays, limit or prohibit us from manufacturing, marketing or selling our current or future products, and/or require us to develop non-infringing technology, make substantial payments to third parties, or enter into royalty or license agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If a successful claim of infringement were made against us and we could not develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, our revenue could decrease substantially, and we could be exposed to significant liability. A court could enter orders that temporarily, preliminarily, or permanently enjoin consumers from using our products or us from manufacturing, selling, or importing our products, or could enter an order mandating that we undertake certain remedial activities. We rely on agreements or licenses to intellectual property or other rights in order to sell our current product and commercialize new products. We rely on agreements or licenses to intellectual property or other rights in order to sell our current product and commercialize new products. If we cannot retain or obtain these agreements, licenses, or other rights, we may not be able to sell, develop, or commercialize our products. For example, our rights to incorporate the FreeStyle blood glucose meter into Classic Omnipod is governed by a license agreement with Abbott. In addition, we have a commercial agreement with Dexcom that allows us to sell 18 Omnipod 5 with integration to Dexcom’s CGM and have a development agreement with Abbott to integrate Abbott’s CGM with Omnipod 5. The loss of any of these rights could impair the functionality of our products or prevent us from selling our products without significant development and regulatory activities that may not be completed in time to prevent an interruption in the availability of our products to consumers. This could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We also have a partnership with Glooko that allows our products to connect with Glooko’s cloud-based diabetes data management system so that users and healthcare providers can monitor user data, including insulin delivery trends and blood glucose levels. Our agreement with Glooko expires in December 2025. If this agreement is not renewed in the future and we do not develop or contract for an alternative data management system, our business could be materially adversely impacted. Risks Related to Economic Conditions and Operating Internationally The continuing worldwide macroeconomic and geopolitical uncertainty as well as the impact of the COVID-19 or other global pandemics may adversely affect our business and prospects. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession and geopolitical issues, including wars and terrorism, have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for economic growth in the world. Our business and results of operations may be adversely impacted by changes in macroeconomic conditions, including inflation, bank failures, rising interest rates and availability of capital markets. Uncertainty about global economic conditions, particularly in countries with government-sponsored healthcare systems, may also cause decreased demand for our products, consumers may reduce their spending, new orders for our products may decline and our user attrition rate may increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales, financial condition, and results of operations. Another global pandemic like COVID-19 has the potential to significantly impact our supply chain if the manufacturing plants that produce our products or product components, the distribution centers where we manage our inventory, or the operations of our logistics and other service providers, including third parties that sterilize our products, are disrupted, temporarily closed or experience worker shortages for a sustained period of time. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, many employees have transitioned to a remote or hybrid work environment, which has increased risks associated with our information technology systems and networks. These increased risks include cyber-attacks, computer viruses, disruptions, or shutdowns that could result in a failure to protect our information technology systems and data integrity. Another global pandemic or new variants of COVID-19, and the requirements to take action to help limit the spread of illness, could impact our ability to carry out our business as usual. For example, the COVID-19 pandemic diverted healthcare resources away from the conduct of clinical trials and interrupted the operations of the FDA, which delayed product approval timelines, including for Omnipod 5. Our financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected by international business risks. In addition to the United States, we sell our products in Europe, Canada, the Middle East and Australia. Our international operations are subject to risks that are inherent in conducting business under foreign laws, regulations and customs. International sales made up 24% of our revenues in 2023 and we expect international sales to contribute significantly to our future growth as we launch Omnipod 5 in our international markets. If the U.S. dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of other countries where we sell our products, such as the euro, our U.S. dollar reported revenue and income will decrease. Changes in the relative values of currencies occur regularly and, in some instances, may have a significant effect on our operating results. We also rely on third-party suppliers located in other countries. For example, a significant portion of our products are manufactured by a third-party contract manufacturer in China. Our efforts to introduce or expand our current or future products in international markets may not be successful, in which case we may have expended significant resources without realizing the expected benefit. Ultimately, the investment required for expansion into international markets could exceed the results of operations generated from this expansion. In addition to the risks discussed elsewhere in this Item 1A, other risks associated with doing business internationally, include: • political instability and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; • trade protection measures, such as tariff increases, and import and export licensing and control requirements; • negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws; • difficulty in establishing, staffing, and managing international operations; • difficulties associated with foreign legal systems, including increased costs associated with enforcing contractual obligations in foreign jurisdictions; 19 • adapting to the differing laws and regulations, business and clinical practices, and consumer preferences in international markets; • difficulties in managing international relationships, including any relationships that we establish with foreign partners, distributors, or sales or marketing agents; and • difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws could materially adversely affect our business and result in civil and/or criminal sanctions. The FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act, and similar anti-bribery laws enacted in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Because of the predominance of government-sponsored healthcare systems around the world, most of our customer relationships outside of the United States are with governmental entities and are therefore subject to such anti-bribery laws. Because we do business in the U.K., the U.K. Bribery Act also extends to our interaction with public and private sector entities and persons outside the U.K., including in the United States. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance programs, our internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of anti-bribery laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Risks Related to Supply Chain, Operations, and Drug Delivery Our inventory is produced and maintained in a limited number of locations. While we expect to begin production at our newly constructed manufacturing facility in Malaysia in 2024, currently our products are manufactured in two locations, at our U.S. manufacturing facility in Massachusetts and on manufacturing lines owned by us at a facility located in China that is operated by a third-party contract manufacturer. Political or financial instability, currency fluctuations, the outbreak of pandemics such as COVID-19, labor unrest, transport capacity and costs, port security, weather conditions, natural disasters, or other events that could slow or disrupt port activities and affect foreign trade are beyond our control and could materially disrupt our supply of product from China, increase our costs, and/or adversely affect our results of operations. Further, following the COVID-19 pandemic there may be increased pressure for U.S. medical device companies to reduce dependency on China for their supply chain. In addition, substantially all of our inventory in the United States is held at a single location in Massachusetts and our inventory in Europe is maintained by a third-party logistics entity primarily at a single location in the Netherlands. We take precautions to ensure that our third-party contract manufacturer and logistics entity safeguard our assets, including maintaining insurance, enacting health and safety protocols, and storing computer data offsite. However, a natural or other disaster, such as a fire or flood, could cause substantial delays in our operations, damage or destroy our manufacturing equipment and/or inventory, and cause us to incur additional expenses. The insurance we maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. With or without insurance, damage to our facility, manufacturing equipment, inventory or other property or to any of our suppliers, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are dependent upon third-party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply problems and price fluctuations, and we may not be able to obtain sufficient components or raw materials on a timely basis or at all. The manufacture of our products requires the timely delivery of sufficient amounts of quality components and materials from many suppliers in various countries. We work closely with our suppliers to ensure the continuity of supply, but we cannot guarantee these efforts will always be successful. For example, given the recent worldwide semiconductor chip shortage, we have entered into “take or pay” contracts with suppliers but cannot guarantee our suppliers will meet their obligations under these contracts. We have also seen significant price increases for various components and raw materials, including for semiconductor chips. We do not have long-term supply agreements with all of our suppliers, and, in many cases, we, or our contract manufacturer, make purchases based on individual purchase orders. In some cases, our agreements with suppliers can be terminated by either party upon short notice. Additionally, while efforts are made to diversify our sources of components and materials, in certain instances we acquire components and materials from a sole supplier. Also, due to the stringent regulations and requirements of the FDA and similar regulatory agencies in other countries regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for some components or materials. Our reliance on these third-party suppliers, as well as on our third-party manufacturer, subjects us to other risks that could harm our business, including: • our suppliers may give other customers’ needs higher priority than ours affecting their ability to deliver products to us in a timely manner, as we are not a major customer of many of our suppliers; 20 • we may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of materials or components in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms; • our suppliers may make errors in manufacturing that could negatively affect the safety or efficacy of our products, cause delays in shipment, or negatively affect our reputation; • we may have difficulty locating and qualifying alternative suppliers for our sole-source supplies; • switching components may require product redesign and submission to the FDA of a new 510(k); • thefts of our trade secrets and intellectual property could occur with the third-party supply process; • the occurrence of a fire, natural disaster, or other catastrophe, impacting one or more of our suppliers, may affect their ability to deliver products to us in a timely manner; • our suppliers may encounter financial hardships unrelated to our demand, which could inhibit their ability to fulfill our orders and meet our requirements, and • our suppliers may fail to comply with conflict minerals, anti-slavery, or other applicable laws, thus impairing our ability to source materials. An interruption, delay, or inability to obtain components, products and raw materials from our third-party suppliers at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could hinder our ability to manufacture our products in a timely or cost-effective manner and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our manufacturing process is highly complex and subject to regulation; as demand for our products increase, we may experience manufacturing difficulties, including not effectively managing the start-up of new manufacturing lines or issues with our third-party contract manufacturer, which could harm our business. The manufacture of our product is highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. While we manufacture our products in the United States, a third-party contract manufacturer in China manufactures and supplies a significant portion of our inventory and we expect to begin additional manufacturing in our new facility in Malaysia during 2024. We and our contract manufacturer may encounter problems during manufacturing for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, defective raw materials, and environmental factors. These issues could lead to launch delays, product shortage, unanticipated costs, lost revenues, and damage to our reputation. A failure to identify and address manufacturing problems prior to the release of products to our customers may also result in a quality or safety issue. Significant manufacturing problems could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. In addition, as we commence operation of new manufacturing lines, we could experience quality issues and unexpected operational delays that decrease our gross margins and cause a shortage of product supply. Our non-insulin Drug Delivery product line faces challenges which, if not met, may impair its future success. Our non-insulin Drug Delivery product line involves the development, manufacture, and sale of a modified Pod for delivery of a specific drug other than insulin. Substantially all of our commercialized Drug Delivery revenue consists of sales of a customized version of our product for use in Amgen’s Neulasta Onpro kit under an agreement that expires in December 2028. The marketing and sales initiatives driving this product line differ markedly from those on which we rely for our sales of Omnipod products to treat diabetes since the non-insulin drug delivery devices depend on marketing and sales to pharmaceutical companies, not to users and clinicians. We expect that the future results of our Drug Delivery product line will face several challenges, including: • our identification of drug delivery opportunities for a modified Pod; • our achievement of satisfactory development and pricing terms with the pharmaceutical companies that sell such drugs; • our development of appropriate modifications to our Omnipod technology to address the needs and parameters required for the respective drug-delivery opportunities; • manufacturing issues relating to the modified Pod; • long lead-times associated with the development, regulatory approvals, and ramp up applicable to the use of modified Pods for the delivery of such drugs; • relatively small number of modified Pods needed to address each drug-delivery opportunity; • uncertainties regarding the market acceptance of such drugs and the modified Pod as an appropriate delivery device; • uncertainties relating to the success of the pharmaceutical companies in marketing and selling such drugs as well as the modified Pods as the appropriate delivery devices; 21 • intense competition in the drug-delivery industry, including from competitors which have substantially greater resources; • maintaining appropriate gross margins; and • regulatory requirements and reimbursement rates associated with such drugs. If we are unsuccessful in overcoming one or more of these challenges, or if our agreement with Amgen is terminated or not renewed, our financial results could be negatively impacted. Risks Related to Government Regulation and Litigation We are subject to extensive government regulation, which could restrict the sales and marketing of our products and could cause us to incur significant costs. Our medical device products and operations are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and various other federal, state, local, and foreign government authorities. Government regulation of medical devices is meant to assure their safety and effectiveness, and includes regulation of, among other things: • design, development and manufacturing; • testing, labeling, and content and language of instructions for use and storage; • clinical trials; • regulatory clearances and approvals, including premarket clearance and approval; • product safety; • advertising and promotion; • marketing, sales, and distribution; • conformity assessment procedures; • product traceability and record keeping procedures; • product complaints, complaint reporting, recalls and field safety corrective actions; • post-market surveillance, including reporting of deaths or serious injuries and malfunctions that, if they were to recur, could lead to death or serious injury; • post-market studies; and • product import and export. Before a new medical device, or a significant modification of a medical device, including a new use of or claim for an existing product, can be marketed in the United States, it must first receive regulatory clearance, unless an exemption applies. Obtaining such regulatory clearance can be expensive and lengthy. Delays in obtaining or inability to obtain future clearances could adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn could harm our revenue and future profitability. We also are subject to numerous post-marketing regulatory requirements, which include quality system regulations related to the manufacture of our devices, labeling regulations, and medical device reporting regulations. The last of these regulations requires us to report to the FDA if our devices cause or contribute to a death or serious injury, or malfunction in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction recurred. If we fail to comply with present or future regulatory requirements that are applicable to us, we may be subject to enforcement action by the FDA, which may include any of the following sanctions: • untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees, and civil penalties; • customer notification, or orders for repair, replacement, or refunds; • voluntary or mandatory recall or seizure of our current or future products; • administrative detention by the FDA of medical devices believed to be adulterated or misbranded; • operating restrictions, suspension or shutdown of production; • refusing our requests for regulatory clearance of new products, new intended uses or modifications to our Omnipod products; • rescinding, suspending or withdrawing clearance that has already been granted; and • criminal prosecution. 22 The occurrence of any of these events may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As described elsewhere in this 10-K, in October and November 2022, we issued voluntary Medical Device Corrections (“MDCs”) relating to the batteries and/or charging of our DASH PDMs and Omnipod 5 Controllers, which are manufactured for us by a third-party. In addition, the FDA may change its clearance and approval policies, adopt additional regulations, revise existing regulations, or take other actions that may prevent or delay approval or clearance of our products under development or impact our ability to modify our currently approved or cleared products on a timely basis. The FDA is in the process of reviewing the 510(k) clearance process and criteria and has announced initiatives to improve the current pre- and post-market regulatory processes and requirements associated with infusion pumps and other home use medical devices. Any change in the laws or regulations that govern the clearance and approval processes relating to our current and future products could make it more difficult and costly to obtain clearance or approval for new products, or to produce, market, and distribute existing products. We also sell our products in Canada, Australia and certain countries in Europe and the Middle East. As a result, we are required to comply with additional foreign regulatory requirements. As we expand our sales efforts internationally, we may need to obtain additional foreign approval certifications. Failure to fulfill foreign regulatory requirements on a timely basis or at all could adversely affect our ability to grow our business. If we, our contract manufacturer or our component suppliers fail to comply with the FDA’s quality system regulations, the manufacturing and distribution of our devices could be interrupted, and our sales and operating results could suffer. We and our contract manufacturers are required to comply with the FDA’s QSR, which is a complex regulatory framework that covers the procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, sterilization, labeling, packaging, storage, shipping, and servicing of our devices. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is monitored rigorously through periodic, sometimes unannounced, inspections by the FDA. We cannot assure you that our facilities or our contract manufacturers’ facilities will pass any future quality system inspection. If our or our contract manufacturers’ facilities fails a quality system inspection or otherwise fails to adhere to QSR requirements, this could delay production of our products and lead to business disruption; failure to take adequate and timely corrective action in response to an adverse quality system inspection or QSR violation could result in business disruption; failure to take adequate and timely corrective action in response to an adverse quality system inspection or QSR violation could result in fines, difficulties in obtaining regulatory clearances, recalls, enforcement actions, including injunctive relief or consent decrees, or other consequences, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Malfunction of our products could lead to recalls or safety alerts or litigation and have a significant adverse impact on us. The FDA and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our products if we or our contract manufacturer fails to comply with relevant regulations pertaining to manufacturing practices, labeling, advertising or promotional activities, or if new information is obtained concerning the safety or efficacy of these products. A government-mandated recall could occur if the FDA finds that there is a reasonable probability that the device would cause serious, adverse health consequences or death. A voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of any material deficiency in a device, such as manufacturing defects, labeling deficiencies, packaging defects, or other failures to comply with applicable regulations. Adverse events involving our products have been reported to us in the past, and we cannot guarantee that they will not occur in the future. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, may require the dedication of our time and capital, could distract management from operating our business and potentially harm our reputation and financial results. We may initiate voluntary recalls involving our products in the future that we determine do not require notification to the FDA. If the FDA disagrees with our determinations, it could require us to report those actions as recalls and could take enforcement action against us for failing to report the recalls when they were conducted. In the event of a product malfunction, we may also be subject to liability claims, be required to bear other costs, or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our future sales and our ability to generate profits. We may be subject to enforcement action if we engage in improper marketing or promotion of our products. Our promotional materials and training methods must comply with FDA and other applicable laws and regulations, including the prohibition of the promotion of unapproved, or off-label, use. Doctors may prescribe our products off-label, as the FDA does not restrict or regulate a doctor’s choice of treatment within the practice of medicine. However, if the FDA determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an off-label use, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory or enforcement actions, including the issuance of an untitled letter, a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine, or criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal, state, or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an off-label use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. In that event, our reputation could be damaged, and adoption of the products could be impaired. Although our policy is to refrain from statements that could be considered off-label promotion of our products, the FDA or another regulatory 23 agency could disagree with our characterization of certain statements and conclude that we have engaged in off-label promotion. In addition, the off-label use of our products may increase the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims are expensive to defend and could divert management’s attention, result in substantial damage awards against us, and harm our reputation. If we fail to comply with Medicare, Medicaid, fraud and abuse, and other healthcare regulations, we could be subject to substantial penalties and/or be excluded from participation in government programs. Our relationships with customers and third-party payors are subject to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain our sales, marketing, and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs and certain customer and product support programs, we may have with hospitals, physicians, customers, or other potential purchasers of medical devices. These laws include, among others, the federal healthcare Anti-Kickback Statute, the federal civil False Claims Act, other federal healthcare false statement and fraud statutes, the Open Payments program, the Civil Monetary Penalties Law, and analogous fraud and abuse and transparency laws in most states, as described in “Item 1—Business—Government Regulation.” We conduct various marketing and product training activities that involve making payments to healthcare providers and entities. While we believe and make every effort to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties and other activities and programs comply with all applicable laws, these laws are complex and our activities may be found not to be compliant with one of these laws, which may result in significant civil, criminal, and/or administrative penalties, fines, damages, and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. Even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to respond to, and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our compliance with Medicare and Medicaid regulations may be reviewed by federal or state agencies, including the OIG, CMS, and the Department of Justice, or may be subject to whistleblower lawsuits under federal and state false claims laws. To ensure compliance with Medicare, Medicaid, and other regulations, government agencies conduct periodic audits of us to ensure compliance with various supplier standards and billing requirements. Risks Related to Privacy and Security We are subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations regarding privacy and data protection, many of which are subject to change and uncertain interpretation, which could result in claims, changes to our business practices, monetary penalties, increased cost of operations, or declines in user growth or engagement, or otherwise harm our business. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations relating to privacy and data protection, data security, data retention and deletion, personal information, electronic contracts, and other communications. The introduction of new products or expansion of our activities in certain jurisdictions may subject us to additional laws and regulations. For example, data privacy laws at the federal and state levels protect the confidentiality of certain health information and restrict the use and disclosure of that protected information. In particular, the U.S. privacy rules under HIPAA protect medical records and other personal health information by limiting their use and disclosure, giving individuals the right to access, amend, and seek accounting of their own health information, and limiting most use and disclosures of health information to the minimum amount reasonably necessary to accomplish the intended purpose. At least fifteen states have adopted new privacy laws in the past few years. In California, the CCPA, which provides certain privacy rights and consumer protection for residents of the state became effective in 2020, and additional regulation under the CPRA, which amends and expands the CCPA, will take effect in 2024. These consumer rights include the right to know what personal information is collected, the right to know whether the data is sold or disclosed and to whom, the right to request a company to delete the personal information collected, the right to opt-out of the sale of personal information, and the right to non-discrimination in terms of price or service when a consumer exercises a privacy right. The California laws have served as a model for many subsequently adopted laws in other states. In 2023, similar privacy laws became effective in Colorado and Virginia. California and other states’ laws apply more broadly and now or in the future may reach data we hold that relates to employees and healthcare providers, not just customers. In addition, data security protection laws passed by the federal government and many states require notification to data subjects, including customers and others, when there is a security breach of personal data. If we fail to comply with these regulations, we could be subject to civil sanctions, including fines and penalties for noncompliance. In addition, foreign data protection, privacy, and other laws and regulations can be more restrictive than those in the United States. Data localization laws in some countries generally mandate that certain types of data collected in a particular country be stored and/or processed within that country. We could be subject to audits in Europe and around the world, particularly in the areas of consumer and data protection, as we continue to grow and expand our operations. Legislators and regulators may make legal and regulatory changes, or interpret and apply existing laws, in ways that make our products less useful to users, require us to incur substantial costs, expose us to unanticipated civil or criminal liability, or cause us to change our business practices. These changes or increased costs could negatively impact our business and results of operations in material ways. For example, the GDPR imposes requirements in the European Economic Area relating to, among other things, consent to process personal 24 data of individuals, the information provided to individuals regarding the processing of their personal data, the security and confidentiality of personal data, notifications in the event of data breaches, and use of third-party processors. If we fail to comply with these standards, we could be subject to criminal penalties and civil sanctions, including significant fines and penalties. The increased scope of regulation around the world may require expanded compliance programs and resources. As our efforts to gain insights from data increase for the operation of our products and services and for the improvement of business processes, including sales and marketing, our exposure to increasingly complex privacy regulation may impede our ability to use data in this way. We rely on the proper function, availability, and security of our product and information technology systems and a successful cyber-attack or other breach or disruption of our product or these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information in our day-to-day operations. The nature of our business involves the receipt and storage of personal and financial information regarding our customers, including sensitive medical information. We use our information technology systems to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including sales, shipping, billing, customer service, procurement, supply chain, manufacturing, and accounts payable. In addition, we use enterprise information technology systems to record, process, and summarize transactions and other financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with financial reporting, legal, and tax regulatory requirements. Many of our information systems are cloud-hosted and managed by third-party vendors, some of which may have access to confidential business, employee, healthcare professional, and/or customer information. Our information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions, or shutdowns due to computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication failures, user errors, or catastrophic events. Any failure by us to maintain or protect our information technology systems and data integrity, including from cyber-attacks, intrusions, disruptions, or shutdowns, could result in the unauthorized access to customer data and personally identifiable information, theft of intellectual property or other misappropriation of assets or the loss of key data and information, or otherwise compromise our confidential or proprietary information and disrupt our operations. Additionally, the FDA has warned that insulin pumps may have cybersecurity vulnerabilities and could be manipulated by hackers, causing danger to people with diabetes. After extensive testing and research in conjunction with an independent third-party firm, a potential security vulnerability in Classic Omnipod was identified. Successful exploitation of this vulnerability may allow an attacker to gain access to the Pod to intercept, modify, or interfere with the wireless radio frequency communications to or from the PDM. This may allow attackers to read sensitive data, change pump settings, or control insulin delivery. Insulet is aware of a specific group of people with diabetes who have been able to duplicate the Pod communication protocol using a smartphone and a bridge, which in turn allows the Pod to be controlled using an unauthorized device. This practice is commonly referred to as Do-It-Yourself (DIY) and is not the intended use with Omnipod products. Insulet has not provided the DIY community with any type of information or input on the product, nor has Insulet been provided with any information proving that this form of off-label use is a safe use of the system. This practice does not exist with Omnipod 5. If our product is breached or our information technology systems are breached or suffer severe damage, disruption, or shutdown and we are unable to effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our reputation, business, and operating results may be materially adversely affected. Failure to maintain the privacy and security of our customer, third-party payor, employee, supplier, or Company information could result in substantial costs and/or subject us to litigation, enforcement actions, and reputational damage. Our business, like that of most medical device manufacturers, involves the receipt, storage, and transmission of customer information and payment and reimbursement information, as well as confidential information about third-party payors, our employees, our suppliers, and our Company. Our information systems are vulnerable to an increasing threat of continually evolving cybersecurity risks. Unauthorized parties may attempt to gain access to our systems or information through fraud or other means of deceiving our employees or third-party service providers. Hardware, software, or applications we develop or obtain from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information and device security. The methods used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems are also constantly changing and evolving, and may be difficult to anticipate or detect for long periods of time. We have implemented and regularly review and update processes and procedures to protect against unauthorized access to or use of secured data and to prevent data loss. However, the ever-evolving threats mean we must continually evaluate and adapt our systems and processes, and our efforts may not be adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches, misuse of data, or sabotage of our systems. Any future significant compromise or breach of our data security, whether external or internal, or 25 misuse of customer, third-party payor, employee, supplier, or Company data, could result in significant costs, lost sales, fines, lawsuits, and damage to our reputation. In addition, as the regulatory environment related to information security, data collection and use, and privacy becomes increasingly rigorous, with new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our business, compliance with those requirements could also result in additional costs. Risks Related to Our Debt We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt, which is substantial. As of December 31, 2023, we had debt of $1.4 billion, including $800 million aggregate principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes, which mature in 2026. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance the Convertible Senior Notes or other debt obligations depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, and other factors beyond our control. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund these obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the outstanding Convertible Senior Notes. We cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations, or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our future debt agreements. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and additional borrowings, refinancings, or proceeds from asset sales are not available to us, we may not have sufficient cash to enable us to meet all of our obligations. Our Credit Agreement imposes restrictions on us that may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Our Credit Agreement contains covenants that restrict our ability, and that of our subsidiaries, to engage in certain transactions, including, among other things, limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make asset dispositions, create or permit liens, sell, transfer or exchange assets, guarantee certain indebtedness, and make acquisitions or other investments.  These restrictions may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. Conversion of any of our Convertible Senior Notes may dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders or depress our stock price. The conversion of some or all our Convertible Senior Notes may dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of any of our common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes could depress the price of our common stock. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards may be subject to limitation. Section 382 and 383 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code imposes an annual limit on the amount of net operating loss and tax carryforwards that may be used to reduce taxes payable when a corporation has undergone significant changes in its stock ownership or equity structure. The issuance of common stock in connection with the conversion of our Convertible Senior Notes, or the consummation of other equity transactions could limit our ability to utilize net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards to offset future U.S. federal and state taxes payable. General Risks Our success depends on our ability to attract, motivate, and retain key personnel. Our success depends on our ability to retain our employees and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in the future. We face intense competition for employees, particularly in light of recent labor shortages and as people are increasingly able to work remotely. We face challenges in maintaining employee well-being, recognizing that the additional financial, family, and health burdens that many employees may be experiencing in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and related economic uncertainties may adversely impact job performance and employee retention. Additionally, during the second half of 2023 we introduced a new organizational operating model, which initially may be disruptive or confusing to some employees as job and reporting structures evolve, causing dissatisfaction or resulting in departures. Losing members of our senior management, and other highly skilled personnel could prevent or delay the implementation and completion of our objectives or divert management’s attention to seeking qualified replacements and ensuring seamless transitions. Additionally, the sale and after-sale support of Omnipod products is logistically complex, requiring us to maintain an extensive infrastructure of field sales personnel, diabetes educators, customer support, insurance specialists, and billing and collections personnel. We face considerable challenges in recruiting, training, managing, motivating, and retaining these employees, including managing geographically dispersed teams. If we fail to maintain and grow an adequate pool of trained and motivated personnel, our reputation could suffer, and our financial position could be adversely affected. 26 Acquisitions or investments in new businesses, products, or technologies could disrupt our business. If we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may pursue acquisitions or investments in complementary businesses, products, or technologies. For example, in 2022, we acquired one of our suppliers. We may not complete transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and we may not realize the expected benefits of any acquisition or investment. Even if we are successful in making an acquisition, the products and technologies that we acquire may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than we originally anticipated. We could also experience negative effects on our results of operations and financial condition from acquisition-related charges, amortization of intangible assets, and asset impairment charges if the acquisitions are not as successful as we originally anticipate. Acquisitions also present risks, uncertainties, and disruptions associated with the integration process, including difficulties in the integration of the operations of any acquired company, integration of acquired technology with our products, and the potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors, or suppliers of the acquired businesses. In addition, integration of an acquired business may require management resources that otherwise would be available for development of our existing business. If an acquired business fails to operate as anticipated or cannot be successfully integrated into our existing business, our stock price, business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, we may have to incur debt or issue equity to pay for any future acquisitions or investments, the issuance of which could be dilutive to our existing stockholders. We may need to raise additional funds in the future, and these funds may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We may in the future seek additional funds from public and private stock or debt offerings, borrowings under credit lines, or other sources, and we may need to raise additional debt or equity financing to repay our outstanding Senior Convertible Notes or other debt obligations. If we issue equity or debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaboration, licensing, or other similar arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish valuable rights to our potential future products or proprietary technologies or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Our ability to raise additional capital may be adversely impacted by current economic conditions, including inflation and worldwide political unrest, and we may not be able to raise any necessary capital on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital due to these or other factors, we may need to further manage our operational expenses, including potentially curtailing planned product development activities. In addition, we may not be able to execute our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements. If any of these events occur, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock is affected by a number of factors, including factors related to our operating performance as a high-growth company and the operating performance of our competitors. At times, the fluctuations in the market price of our common stock have been unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance. In particular, the U.S. equity markets have at times experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of equity securities of many medical device and technology companies. Also, in 2023, ongoing adoption of the GLP-1 class of drugs in diabetes and news surrounding the expansion of use of GLP-1 drugs in obesity led to speculation regarding the impact of GLP-1 drugs on the insulin therapy market. We believe this negatively impacted the stock prices of companies in the medical device industry, including ours. Broad market and industry factors such as these could materially and adversely affect the market price of our stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. We have identified control deficiencies that have been determined to be a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. This issue, if not remediated, could result in material misstatements in our financial statements and cause us to fail to meet our reporting and financial obligations. As disclosed in Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures,” we have reported a material weakness because we did not maintain effective information technology general controls over systems that support our financial reporting outside of North America. The material weakness will not be considered remediated until the enhanced controls operate for a sufficient period of time and management has concluded, through testing, that the related controls are effective. We cannot assure that the measures we take will remediate the material weakness or that additional material weaknesses will not arise in the future. Any failure to remediate the material weakness, or the development of new material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, could result in material misstatements in our financial statements and cause us to fail to meet our reporting and financial obligations, which in turn could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, restrict our ability to access the capital markets, require significant resources to correct the material weaknesses or deficiencies, subject us to fines, penalties or judgments, harm our reputation or otherwise cause a decline in investor confidence and cause a decline in the market price of our stock. 27

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included in this annual report. The following discussion may contain forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs, which are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed under the headings “Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Statements.” Overview Our mission is to improve the lives of people with diabetes. We are primarily engaged in the development, manufacture, and sale of our proprietary continuous insulin delivery system for people with insulin-dependent diabetes. The Omnipod platform, includes: Classic Omnipod, its next generation Omnipod DASH, the most recent generation Omnipod 5, and our latest innovation, Omnipod GO, which received U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) clearance in 2023, all of which eliminate the need for multiple daily injections using syringes or insulin pens or the use of pump and tubing. Omnipod DASH features a secure Bluetooth enabled Pod that is controlled by a smartphone-like PDM with a color touch screen user interface. Omnipod 5, which builds on our Omnipod DASH mobile platform, is a tubeless automated insulin delivery system that integrates with a continuous glucose monitor (“CGM”) to manage blood sugar and is fully controlled by a compatible personal smartphone or Omnipod 5 Controller. The CGM is sold separately by a third party. Omnipod GO, for which we are currently conducting a pilot program in the United States, is our basal-only Pod for individuals with type 2 diabetes age 18 and older who require insulin. Our long-term financial objective is to sustain profitable growth. To achieve this goal, we launched Omnipod 5 in the United States in August 2022 and in the United Kingdom and Germany in June and August 2023, respectively. Subsequent to the launch of Omnipod 5, we began to phase-out our Classic Omnipod in the U.S. in 2023, since the vast majority of our U.S. customer base is no longer using this product. We are working on further building our international teams and advancing our regulatory, reimbursement, and market development efforts so we can bring Omnipod 5 to additional international markets. We plan to launch Omnipod 5 in more European markets in 2024 starting with the Netherlands. Additionally, in December 2023, we completed enrollment for our pivotal trial for Omnipod 5 with the goal of expanding Omnipod 5’s indication to type 2 users. We expect to complete the trial and submit to the FDA for an expanded indication by the end of 2024. We have completed a randomized control trial in the U.S. and France for Omnipod 5 with DexCom’s G6 continuous glucose monitor (“CGM”) to support our pricing and market access initiatives. We also continue to expand market access and awareness of Omnipod products through our direct to consumer advertising programs and through growing our presence in the U.S. pharmacy channel, where access to Omnipod 5 and Omnipod DASH is simpler and affordable, as no up-front investment is required. We also continue to take steps to strengthen our global manufacturing capabilities. We recently completed construction of a new manufacturing plant in Malaysia to support our international expansion strategy, further ensure product supply, and drive higher gross margins over time. We expect to begin production at this new manufacturing facility in 2024. Finally, we continue to focus on our product development efforts, including AID offerings such as choice of smartphone integration and CGM, and enhancing the customer experience through digital product and data capabilities. In February 2024, we began our limited market release of Omnipod 5 with Dexcom’s G7 CGM in the United States and received CE mark approval for the added compatibility of Libre 2 Plus with Omnipod 5 for individuals aged two years and older with type 1 diabetes. We expect to launch a limited market release of Omnipod 5 with Libre 2 Plus in the U.K. and the Netherlands in 2024. Additionally, we received FDA clearance for the Omnipod 5 App for iPhone in the fourth quarter of 2023 and plan to launch a limited market release in the U.S. in 2024. Results of Operations The discussion of our results of operations for 2021 has been omitted from this Form 10-K but can be found in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis and Results of Operations in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 24, 2023. Factors Affecting Operating Results Our Pod is intended to be used continuously for up to three days, after which it is replaced with a new disposable Pod. We recently achieved a milestone of approximately 425,000 estimated active global customers using Omnipod products, including approximately 250,000 global customers using Omnipod 5. Our product’s unique patented design allows us to provide Pod therapy at a relatively low or no up-front investment in regions where reimbursement allows for it and our pay-as-you-go 32 pricing model reduces the risk to third-party payors. As we grow our customer base, we expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenues through recurring sales of our disposable Pods, which provide recurring revenue. In 2022, we issued two voluntary Medical Device Corrections (“MDCs”), one in October for our Omnipod DASH PDM related to its battery and the other in November for our Omnipod 5 Controller related to its charging port and cable. During 2022, we initially recorded a net charge of $57.9 million related to these MDCs. During the year ended December 31, 2023, we recorded $11.5 million of income associated with a change in our estimated liability for the MDCs, primarily due to lower distribution costs. We continue to experience challenges stemming from the global supply chain disruption; however, while there is no guarantee of future performance, to date we have been able to successfully mitigate this disruption and ensure uninterrupted supply to our customers by increasing our inventory levels and taking other measures. While our mitigation efforts and inflation have and are expected to continue to negatively impact gross margins and net income in 2024, we intend to continue to work to improve productivity to help offset these costs. Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022 Revenue (1) Constant currency revenue growth is a non-GAAP financial measure which should be considered supplemental to, and not a substitute for, our reported financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP. See “Management’s Use of Non-GAAP Measures.” Total revenue for 2023 increased $391.8 million, or 30.0%, to $1,697.1 million, compared with $1,305.3 million in 2022. Constant currency revenue growth of 29.6% was primarily driven by higher volume and, to a lesser extent, favorable sales channel mix, partially offset by decreased drug delivery revenue. U.S. Revenue from the sale of Omnipod products in the U.S. increased $366.2 million, or 41.4%, in 2023 to $1,251.0 million, compared with $884.8 million in 2022. This increase primarily resulted from higher volumes driven by growing our customer base and, to a lesser extent, growth through the pharmacy channel, where Pods have a higher average selling price due in part to the fact that we offer the PDM/Controller for no charge, and an increase in estimated inventory days-on-hand at distributors. Revenue from the sale of Omnipod products in the U.S. includes $473.7 million of related party revenue in 2023, compared with $249.9 million in 2022. The $223.8 million increase primarily resulted from growth through the pharmacy channel. Additional information regarding our related party transactions is provided in Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements. In 2024, we expect strong U.S. revenue growth driven by continued volume growth of Omnipod 5, continued sales of Omnipod DASH, and the benefits of our recurring revenue model and pharmacy channel access. We expect these increases to be partially offset by lower conversions from Classic Omnipod and Omnipod DASH to Omnipod 5 in the first half of the year compared to 2023 since the vast majority of conversions to Omnipod 5 occurred in 2023. International Revenue from the sale of Omnipod products in our international markets increased $47.1 million, or 13.0%, in 2023 to $410.1 million, compared with $363.0 million in 2022. Excluding the 1.6% favorable impact of currency exchange, the remaining 11.4% increase in revenue was primarily due to higher volumes as we continue to expand awareness and access to Omnipod DASH and, to a lesser extent, the timing of revenue recognition related to deferrals associated with our Omnipod DASH MDC and a technology upgrade program, and product mix from the launch of Omnipod 5 in the United Kingdom. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in estimated days-on-hand at distributors and higher attrition in the countries where we have not yet launched Omnipod 5 as we continue to be impacted by competition from AID systems. In 2024, we expect higher International revenue due to continued volume growth driven by new customers and conversions to Omnipod 5 in the U.K. and Germany and to a lesser extent, the ongoing adoption of Omnipod DASH . We expect these increases to be partially offset by competition from AID systems. 33 Drug Delivery Substantially all of our Drug Delivery revenue consists of sales of pods to Amgen for use in the Neulasta ® Onpro ® kit, a delivery system for Amgen’s Neulasta to help reduce the risk of infection after intense chemotherapy. Drug Delivery revenue for 2023 decreased $21.5 million, or 37.4%, to $36.0 million, compared with $57.5 million in 2022. This decrease primarily resulted from a lower forecast from our partner, partially offset by a higher selling price. In 2024, we expect Drug Delivery revenue to decline $18 million to $22 million due to a lower forecast from our partner . Operating Expenses Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue for 2023 increased $37.5 million, or 7.5%, to $537.2 million, compared with $499.7 million in 2022. Gross margin was 68.3% in 2023, compared with 61.7% in 2022. The 6.6 point increase in gross margin was primarily driven by the $57.9 million net charge associated with the voluntary MDC notices issued in 2022, which did not repeat in the current period, and an $11.5 million revision to the voluntary MDC liability in 2023, due to lower than expected distribution costs. The increase was also driven by higher average selling prices primarily due to growth in the pharmacy channel and improved manufacturing efficiencies. These increases were partially offset by higher production costs associated with Omnipod 5 and  U.S. manufacturing as it continues to become a larger portion of total production, and to a lesser extent, continued inflation. We expect gross margin for 2024 to be in the range of 68% to 69%. We anticipate gross margin to be relatively level due to higher average selling prices primarily due to growth in the pharmacy channel and improved manufacturing efficiencies, partially offset by $11.5 million of income associated with a reduction to our MDC liability in 2023, which will not recur, and higher costs associated with our new product launches. Research and Development Research and development expenses for 2023 increased $24.8 million, or 13.8%, to $205.0 million, compared with $180.2 million in 2022. This increase was primarily due to year-over-year headcount additions to support our continued investment in the development of Omnipod products and third-party costs to support clinical trials. Research and development expenses as a percent of revenue declined to 12.1% in 2023, compared with 13.8% in 2022 primarily due to an increase in sustaining costs following the launch of Omnipod 5 in the United States, which are included in selling, general and administrative expenses. We expect research and development spending in 2024 to increase compared with 2023 as we continue to invest in advancing our innovation and clinical pipeline. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses for 2023 increased $147.1 million, or 25.0%, to $734.9 million, compared with $587.8 million in 2022. This increase was primarily attributable to year-over-year headcount additions, mainly to support international growth and costs associated with our new leadership structure that is designed to accelerate innovation and commercialization. In addition, we had higher direct-to-consumer advertising spend and third-party customer service costs to support Omnipod 5 adoption, and an increase in software license fees driven by investments in new systems due to our growing business and increased headcount. To a lesser extent, the increase was due to higher amortization of cloud computing implementation costs and higher third-party training costs. These increases were partially offset by $27.3 million of legal costs incurred in the prior year related to the settlement of a patent infringement lawsuit, associated legal fees, and an estimated liability to settle a contract dispute. We expect selling, general and administrative expenses to increase in 2024 compared with 2023 due to investments in our operating structure, primarily headcount additions, to facilitate continued growth, including customer support. Additionally, we plan to make additional investments to support our Omnipod platform, including market acceptance and access, and the phased launch of Omnipod 5 in our international markets. 34 Non-Operating Items Interest Expense and Income Interest expense of $36.2 million in 2023 was level with interest expense of $36.0 million in 2022. Interest income for 2023 increased $19.3 million to $28.6 million, compared with $9.3 million in 2022. This increase was primarily driven by higher interest rates. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income of $2.2 million for 2023 consists primarily of $2.6 million of gains related to fair value adjustments associated with our strategic debt and equity investments. Other expense of $1.1 million for 2022 consists primarily of net unrealized and realized foreign currency losses. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense was $8.3 million on pre-tax income of $214.6 million for 2023 and $5.2 million on pre-tax income of $9.8 million for 2022. Our effective tax rate was 3.9% and 53.4% for 2023 and 2022, respectively. The decrease in our effective tax rate was primarily driven by an increase in pre-tax income in the U.S. where we have net operating loss carryforwards to reduce taxable profits and a full valuation allowance against deferred tax assets. Accordingly, we have not reported any tax benefit relating to the remaining net operating loss carryforwards and income tax credit carryforwards that are available for utilization in future periods. We maintain a $202.9 million valuation allowance on net deferred tax assets at December 31, 2023.  Given our current earnings and anticipated future earnings, we believe that there is a reasonable possibility that within the next 12 months, sufficient positive evidence may become available to allow us to reach a conclusion that a significant portion of our valuation allowance will no longer be needed. A release of the valuation allowance would result in the recognition of certain deferred tax assets and a decrease to income tax expense in the period the release is recorded. However, the timing and amount of the valuation allowance release, if any, are unknown as this is subject to change on the basis of the level of profitability that we are able to actually achieve in future periods and other evidence that will be considered at the time of the assessment. Refer to Note 23 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on our income tax expense. In 2021, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”) and G20 international forum released the Model Global Anti-Base Erosion (GloBE) rules (“Model Rules”) under Pillar Two. These Model Rules set forth the common approach for a Global Minimum Tax at 15% for multinational enterprises with revenue greater than €750 million and is expected to be applicable to Insulet. In December 2022, Pillar Two was adopted by the Council of the European Union for implementation by European Union member states by December 31, 2023, with effect for tax years beginning in calendar year 2024. Similar directives under Pillar Two are already adopted or expected to be adopted by taxing authorities in other countries where Insulet has business operations, with widespread implementation of the Global Minimum Tax in calendar years 2024 and 2025. We are continuing to evaluate the Model Rules for Pillar Two and related legislation, and their potential impact on future periods. 35 Adjusted EBITDA The table below presents reconciliations of Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure, to net income, the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”): (1) Represents net (income) expense resulting from estimated costs associated with the voluntary MDC notices issued in the fourth quarter of 2022 and adjustments to those costs, which is included in cost of revenue. Refer to Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. (2) Represents non-operating gains related to fair value adjustments of strategic debt and equity investments. (3) Includes a $20.0 million charge to settle patent infringement litigation with Roche, associated legal fees, and a $3.6 million charge to settle a contract dispute. Refer to Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. (4) Represents costs associated with the retirement and advisory services of our former chief executive officer, including $2.3 million of accelerated stock-based compensation expense. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Management uses the following non-GAAP financial measures: Constant currency revenue growth represents the change in revenue between current and prior year periods using the exchange rate in effect during the applicable prior year period. We present constant currency revenue growth because we believe it provides meaningful information regarding our results on a consistent and comparable basis. Management uses this non-GAAP financial measure, in addition to financial measures in accordance with GAAP, to evaluate our operating results. It is also one of the performance metrics that determines management incentive compensation. Adjusted EBITDA represents net income plus net interest expense, income tax expense, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and other significant transactions or events, such as legal settlements, medical device corrections, gains (losses) on investments, and loss on extinguishment of debt, which affect the period-to-period comparability of our operating performances, as applicable. We present Adjusted EBITDA because management uses it as a supplemental measure in assessing our operating performance, and we believe that it is helpful to investors, and other interested parties as a measure of our comparative operating performance from period to period. Adjusted EBITDA is a commonly used measure in determining business value and we use it internally to report results. These non-GAAP financial measures should be considered supplemental to, and not a substitute for, our reported financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, the above definitions may differ from similarly titled measures used by others. Non-GAAP financial measures exclude the effect of items that increase or decrease our reported results of operations; accordingly, we strongly encourage investors to review our consolidated financial statements in their entirety. 36 Liquidity and Capital Resources Capitalization The following table contains several key measures to gauge our financial condition and liquidity at the end of each year: Convertible Debt To finance our operations and global expansion, we have periodically issued convertible senior notes, which are convertible into our common stock. As of December 31, 2023, the following notes were outstanding: (1) Per $1,000 face value of notes. In connection with the issuance of the 0.375% Convertible Senior Notes (“0.375% Notes”), we purchased capped call options (“Capped Calls”) on our common stock. By entering into the Capped Calls, we expect to reduce the potential dilution to our common stock (or, in the event the conversion is settled in cash, to provide a source of cash to settle a portion of our cash payment obligation) in the event that at the time of conversion our stock price exceeds the conversion price under the 0.375% Notes. The Capped Calls have an initial strike price of $335.90 per share and cover 3.5 million shares of our common stock. Credit Agreement We have a $300 million senior secured revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”), which expires in 2028. At December 31, 2023, no amount was outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility. The Revolving Credit Facility contains a covenant to maintain a specified leverage ratio under certain conditions when there are amounts outstanding under the facility. It also contains other customary covenants, none of which are considered restrictive to our operations. Additionally, we have a seven year term loan, which matures in 2028, that contains covenants restricting or limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make asset dispositions, create or permit liens, sell, transfer or exchange assets, guarantee certain indebtedness, and make acquisitions and other investments. Additional information regarding our debt is provided in Notes 16 and 26 to the consolidated financial statements. We believe that our current liquidity will be sufficient to meet our projected operating, investing, and debt service requirements for at least the next twelve months. Summary of Cash Flows 37 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $145.7 million in 2023 was primarily attributable to net income, as adjusted for depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation expense, which was more than offset by a $190.6 million working capital cash outflow. The working capital outflow was driven by a $154.2 million increase in accounts receivable, a $53.6 million increase in inventories and a $42.1 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, partially offset by a $70.3 million increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities. The increase in accounts receivable was primarily due to an increase in sales in the U.S. pharmacy channel, which has longer payment terms. The increase in inventories was primarily driven by a planned inventory build to mitigate supply chain risk and satisfy demand. The increase in prepaid expenses and other assets was driven by an increase in prepaid cloud computing implementation and upgrade costs, subscription renewal costs, and other receivables. Finally, the increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities was primarily driven by an increase in accrued rebates mainly due to revenue growth in the pharmacy channel and an increase in compensation costs due to higher incentive compensation achievement and headcount additions, partially offset by warranty fulfillment associated with the voluntary MDCs issued in 2022. Net cash provided by operating activities of $119.0 million in 2022 was primarily attributable to net income, as adjusted for depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation expense, partially offset by a $2.5 million working capital cash outflow. The working capital outflow was driven by a $36.8 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, a $51.8 million increase in accounts receivable, and a $49.1 million increase in inventories, partially offset by a $137.6 million increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities. The increase in prepaid expenses and other assets was primarily driven by an increase in cloud computing implementation costs. The increase in accounts receivable was primarily due to an increase in sales in the U.S. pharmacy channel, which has longer payment terms, partially offset by a decrease in unbilled accounts receivable related to lower production volumes of our Drug Delivery product. The increase in inventories was primarily driven by a planned inventory build to satisfy demand. Finally, the increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities was primarily driven by the voluntary MDCs issued for our Omnipod DASH PDMs and Omnipod 5 Controllers, an increase in rebates due to growth in the pharmacy channel and an increase in compensation costs due to higher incentive compensation achievement and head count additions. Investing Activities We had $119.4 million of net cash used in investing activities in 2023, compared with $191.1 million in 2022. Capital Spending —Capital expenditures were $75.6 million and $122.9 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively, and primarily related to the purchase of equipment to increase our manufacturing capacity. We expect capital expenditures for 2024 to increase compared with 2023 given the timing of spending on machinery, equipment and tooling for our new Malaysia manufacturing facility and to support continuous improvement efforts in our other manufacturing locations. To a lesser extent, we expect capital expenditures to increase due to investments in our information technology infrastructure. We expect to fund our capital expenditures using existing cash. Investments in Developed Software— Investments in developed software were $8.5 million and $12.9 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively, and primarily related to investments in projects to support our cloud-based capabilities. Acquisitions —In 2023, we paid Bigfoot Biomedical, Inc. $25.1 million, including transaction costs, to acquire patent assets related to pump-based AID technologies. In 2022, we paid $26.0 million to acquire substantially all the assets related to the manufacture and production of shape-memory alloy wire assemblies that are used in the production of Pods from Dynalloy, Inc. and $21.5 million to acquire developed technology and patents from Automated Glucose Control LLC. The remaining $3.0 million purchase price for the Dynalloy acquisition was paid during 2023. Investments —In 2023 and 2022, we made strategic investments in private companies in the amount of $7.2 million and $7.8 million, respectively. Financing Activities We had $13.6 million of net cash used in financing activities in 2023, compared with $40.3 million in 2022. Debt Repayments —During 2023, we made principal payments totaling $27.0 million on our equipment financings, term loan, and mortgage, compared with $24.5 million of aggregate payments in 2022. Prepayments of Finance Lease Obligation— During 2022, we made $15.3 million in upfront payments upon entering into an agreement to acquire real estate in Malaysia. Refer to Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding this lease. Proceeds from Option Exercises and Shares Issued Under Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) —Total proceeds from option exercises and issuance of shares under the ESPP were $26.9 million and $16.3 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. The $10.6 million increase was primarily driven by option exercises by former executives. 38 Payment of Taxes for Restricted Stock Net Settlements —Payments for taxes related to net restricted and performance stock unit settlements were $13.2 million and $16.8 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. The $3.6 million decrease was primarily driven by lower achievement of the performance stock units that vested during 2023 (84% achievement in 2023 compared with 101% achievement in 2022). Commitments and Contingencies Contractual Obligations —A summary of our contractual obligations and commitments for debt, operating lease obligations and other obligations at December 31, 2023 is presented in the following table: (1) Interest on debt and lease obligations are projected for future periods using the interest rates in effect as of December 31, 2023. Certain of these projected interest payments may differ in the future based on changes in market interest rates. Additional information regarding our leases is provided in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. (2) Excludes the impact of the interest rate swaps discussed in Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements. (3) Purchase obligations include commitments for the purchase of components for our products, commitments related to establishing additional manufacturing capabilities, and other commitments for purchases of goods or services in the normal course of business. These commitments are derived from purchase orders, supplier contracts and open orders based on projected demand information. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements In 2022, the Company entered into a $20 million uncommitted letter of credit facility, and concurrently with the execution of an agreement to acquire real estate in Malaysia, a letter of credit of $16.5 million was issued under the facility to backstop a bank guarantee for the same amount. The bank guarantee serves as security for the building until the Company purchases the property. In 2023, additional letters of credit totaling $3.5 million were issued under this facility. In aggregate, we had letters of credit totaling $20.9 million and $18.6 million as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Additional information regarding our letters of credit is provided in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The following accounting policies are based on, among other things, judgments and assumptions made by management that include inherent risks and uncertainties. Management’s estimates are based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue when a customer obtains control of the promised products in an amount that reflects the net consideration to which we expect to be entitled. We sell products both through distributors, who resell the products to consumers, and directly to consumers. Transaction price is typically based on contracted rates less any estimates of claim denials and historical reimbursement experience, guidelines and payor mix, and less estimated variable consideration adjustments, including rebates. Recognizing revenue requires us to exercise judgment and use estimates that can have a significant impact on the amount and timing of revenue we report. We exercise significant judgment when we determine variable consideration adjustments. The amount of variable consideration that is included in the transaction price is included in revenue only to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of the cumulative revenue recognized will not occur in a future period. We estimate reductions to our revenues for rebates paid to distributors in the United States and Canada and pharmacy benefit managers (“PBM”) in the United States. Rebates are based on contractual arrangements, which may vary. Our estimates are based on products sold, historical experience, trends, specific known market events and, as available, channel inventory data. Rebates charged against gross sales amounted to $465.5 million, $247.1 million and $143.3 million in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Provisions for rebates, sales discounts, and returns are accounted for as a reduction of sales when revenue is recognized and are included within accounts receivable trade or accrued expenses and other current liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, based upon the recipient of the rebate. If the actual amounts of consideration that we receive differ from our estimates, we adjust our estimates, which affects reported revenue in the period that such variances become known. 39 Our Drug Delivery product line includes sales of a modified version of the Pod to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies who use our technology as a delivery method for their drugs. Revenue from the Drug Delivery product was $36.0 million for 2023. Revenue for this product line is recognized as the product is produced. Accounting for Drug Delivery revenue requires us to select a method to measure progress towards the satisfaction of the performance obligation. This election of the most meaningful measure of progress by which to recognize Drug Delivery revenue requires the application of judgment. We elected the input method and selected a blend of cost and time to produce as the measure of progress. Accordingly, revenue is recognized over time using a blend of costs incurred to date relative to total estimated costs at completion and time incurred to date relative to total production time to measure progress toward the satisfaction of our performance obligations. We believe that both incurred cost and elapsed time reflect the value generated, which best depicts the transfer of control to the customer. Contract costs include third-party costs as well as an allocation of manufacturing overhead. Changes from quarter to quarter in quantity and stage of production of in-process inventory could have a significant quarterly impact on revenue. Income Taxes We use the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amount and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. Deferred tax assets are recognized for deductible temporary differences, and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for taxable temporary differences. A valuation allowance is provided when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. Significant judgement is required in determining whether it is probable that sufficient future taxable income will be available against which a deferred tax asset can be utilized. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including cumulative income in recent fiscal years, our forecast of future taxable income exclusive of certain reversing temporary differences and significant risks and uncertainties related to our business. In determining future taxable income, we are responsible for assumptions utilized including the amount of state, federal and international pre-tax operating income, the reversal of certain temporary differences and the implementation of feasible and prudent tax planning strategies. These assumptions require significant judgment about the forecasts of future taxable income in applicable tax jurisdictions, which are based on our commercial experience to date and are consistent with the plans and estimates that we are using to manage our underlying business. As of December 31, 2023, we recorded a full valuation allowance of $202.9 million on our net deferred tax assets because realizability is not more likely than not. If we determine that the deferred tax assets are realizable in a future period, it would result in material changes to income tax expense in that period. Product Warranty We provide a four-year warranty on our PDMs and Controllers sold in the United States and Europe and a five-year warranty on PDMs sold in Canada. In addition, we may replace Pods that do not function in accordance with product specifications. We estimate our warranty obligation at the time the product is shipped based on historical experience and the estimated cost to service the claims, which include the current product cost, reclaim costs, shipping and handling costs and direct and incremental distribution and customer service support costs. Since we continue to introduce new products and versions, the anticipated performance of the product over the warranty period is also considered in estimating warranty reserves. Changes to the actual replacement rates, which are evaluated quarterly, could have a material impact on our estimated warranty reserve. Inventory Reserves We reduce the carrying value of inventories for items that are potentially excess, obsolete, or slow-moving based on changes in customer demand, technology developments, or other economic factors in order to state inventories at net realizable value. Factors influencing these adjustments include inventories on hand compared to estimated future usage and sales. During 2023, we charged $3.7 million to the consolidated statement of operations for excess and obsolete inventory. The determination of this charge involved assumptions regarding the number of PDMs expected to be utilized to satisfy warranty claims during the phase-out period and the length of time we will continue to offer Classic Omnipod outside the United States. Accounting Standards Issued and Not Yet Adopted as of December 31, 2023 In November 2023, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2023-07, Segment Reporting (Topic 280): Improvements to Reportable Segment Disclosures . ASU 2023-07 requires disclosure of incremental segment information on an annual and interim basis, including enhanced disclosures about significant segment expenses. We are required to comply with these new disclosure requirements beginning with our annual filing for 2024. The guidance is applied retrospectively. We do not plan to early adopt ASU 2023-07. 40 In December 2023, the FASB issued ASU 2023-09, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures. ASU 2023-09 includes improvements to income tax disclosures primarily related to information about rate reconciliation and income taxes paid. The new guidance requires disclosure of specific categories and greater disaggregation of information in the rate reconciliation and adds a requirement to disaggregate income taxes paid by jurisdiction. The new guidance also requires disclosure of pretax income disaggregated between domestic and foreign, income tax expense (or benefit) disaggregated by federal, state, and foreign, and removes certain existing disclosure requirements. We are required to comply with these new disclosure requirements beginning with our annual filing for 2025. The guidance may be applied on a prospective basis or retrospective basis. We do not plan to early adopt the requirements of ASU 2023-09. Forward-Looking Statements This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements relating to future events or future financial performance that are based on management’s current expectations, estimates, and projections. Words such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “could,” “intends,” “targets,” “projects,” “contemplates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “potential” or “continue” or the negative of these terms or other similar words or expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are only predictions and involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. Certain factors, including but not limited to those identified under “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Form 10-K, may cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations, estimates, projections, and forecasts, and from past results. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements other than as required by law.