********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We currently rely on sales of the Omnipod System, and tailored versions of the Omnipod System in our drug delivery product line, to generate nearly all our revenue. Our main product is the Omnipod System, from which we expect to continue to derive nearly all our revenue. Accordingly, our ability to continue to generate revenue is highly reliant on our ability to market and sell the Omnipod System and to retain consumers who currently use the product. Our sales of the Omnipod System may be negatively impacted by many factors, including: • the failure of the Omnipod System to achieve and maintain wide acceptance among opinion leaders in the diabetes treatment community, insulin-prescribing physicians, third-party payors, and people with insulin-dependent diabetes; • manufacturing problems or capacity constraints; • actual or perceived quality problems; • reductions in reimbursement rates or coverage policies relating to the Omnipod System by third-party payors; 15 • claims that any portion of the Omnipod System infringes on intellectual property rights of others; • adverse regulatory or legal actions relating to the Omnipod System; • damage, destruction or loss of any of the facilities where our products are manufactured or stored or of the equipment therein; • failure to successfully open or expand new facilities; • the inability of users to continue paying for our products; • attrition rates of consumers who cease using the Omnipod System; • competitive pricing; and • results of clinical studies relating to the Omnipod System or our competitors’ products. If any of these events occurs, our ability to generate revenue could be significantly reduced, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to expand and maintain an effective sales force or successfully develop our relationships with intermediaries, our business, prospects and brand may be materially and adversely affected. In addition to promoting, marketing, and selling the Omnipod System through our own direct sales force, we also utilize domestic and international intermediaries to distribute our product to users. We need to expand our distribution network to maintain and grow our business and revenue. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully develop our relationships with third-party intermediaries. If we fail to do so, our sales could fail to grow or could decline, and our ability to grow our business could be adversely affected. Intermediaries that are in the business of selling other medical products may not devote a sufficient level of resources and the support required to generate awareness of our products and grow or maintain product sales. If our intermediaries are unwilling or unable to market and sell our products, or if they do not perform to our expectations, we could experience delayed or reduced market acceptance and sales of our products, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our ability to grow our revenue depends in part on our retaining a high percentage of our customers. A key to driving our revenue growth is the retention of a high percentage of our customers. We have developed retention programs aimed at both healthcare professionals and consumers, which include appeals assistance, ongoing customer communications, newsletters, support, training and an automatic re-order program for certain customers. We have had a satisfactory customer retention rate; however, we cannot assure you that we will maintain this retention rate in the future. Current uncertainty in global economic conditions, competition, higher levels of unemployment, changes in insurance reimbursement levels, and negative financial news may negatively affect product demand. If demand for our products fluctuates as a result of economic conditions or otherwise, our ability to attract and retain customers could be harmed. The failure to retain a high percentage of our customers could negatively impact our revenue growth and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not effectively manage our growth, our business resources may become strained and we may not be able to deliver the Omnipod System in a timely manner, which could harm our results of operations. As we continue to expand our sales, we expect to continue to increase our manufacturing capacity, our personnel and the scope of our sales and marketing efforts. This growth, as well as any other growth that we may experience in the future, will provide challenges to our organization and may strain our management and operations resources. In order to manage future growth, we will be required to improve existing, and implement new, sales and marketing efforts and distribution channels. The form and function of our enterprise information technology systems will need to change and be improved upon as our business needs change. For example, we are currently working to implement a new enterprise resource planning system and significantly upgrade our customer relationship management system. We will need to manage our supply chain effectively, including the continued development of our manufacturing and our relationships with our contract manufacturer and other suppliers. We may also need to partner with additional third-party suppliers to manufacture certain components of the Omnipod System and install additional manufacturing lines. A transition to new suppliers may result in additional costs or delays. We may misjudge the amount of time or resources that will be required to effectively manage any anticipated or unanticipated growth in our business, or we may not be able to manufacture sufficient inventory, or attract, hire and retain sufficient personnel to meet our needs. If we cannot scale our business appropriately, maintain control over expenses or otherwise adapt to anticipated and unanticipated growth, our business resources may become strained, we may not be able to deliver the Omnipod System in a timely manner and our results of operations may be adversely affected. 16 Failure to secure or retain adequate coverage or reimbursement for our products by third-party payors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect that sales of the Omnipod System will be limited unless a substantial portion of the sales price of the Omnipod System is paid for by third-party payors, including private insurance companies, health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations, federal and state government healthcare agencies and other managed care providers. In the United States, we currently have contracts establishing reimbursement for the Omnipod System with national and regional third-party payors that provide reimbursement in all 50 states. While we anticipate entering into additional contracts with other third-party payors, we cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful. In addition, these contracts can generally be terminated by the third-party payor without cause. Healthcare market initiatives in the United States may also lead third-party payors to decline or reduce reimbursement for the Omnipod System. Moreover, compliance with administrative procedures or requirements of third-party payors may result in delays in processing approvals by those payors for consumers to obtain coverage for the use of the Omnipod System. Coverage decisions and rates of reimbursement increasingly require clinical evidence showing an improvement in user outcomes. Generating this clinical evidence requires substantial time and investment and there is no guarantee of a desired outcome. We are an approved Medicare supplier and CMS has issued guidance clarifying that Medicare Part D Plan Sponsors may provide coverage for products such as the Omnipod System under the Medicare Part D prescription drug program. As a result, we must negotiate with third-party payors in order to provide our product through the pharmacy channel in the United States to users who are covered under Medicare Part D. Compliance with administrative procedures or requirements of these third-party payors may result in delays in processing approvals by those payors for consumers to obtain Medicare Part D coverage for the use of the Omnipod System. Medicaid coverage decisions are made by the governing authorities in each state. As the Medicaid coverage process and stakeholders are unique to each state, the timeline to gain coverage in each state may vary. We began our full market release of Omnipod DASH in 2019, primarily through the pharmacy channel, which required negotiation of new or amended agreements with our intermediaries and payors. The availability of Omnipod DASH may be limited or restricted if we are unable to maintain these agreements and sustain an adequate level of reimbursement under these agreements. As we expand our Omnipod System sales and marketing efforts internationally, we face additional risks associated with obtaining and maintaining reimbursement from foreign healthcare payment systems on a timely basis or at all. Failure to secure or retain adequate coverage or reimbursement for the Omnipod System by third-party payors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Healthcare reform laws could adversely affect our revenue and financial condition. During the past several years, the U.S. healthcare industry has been subject to an increase in governmental regulation at both the federal and state levels. Efforts to control healthcare costs, including limiting access to care, alternative delivery models and changes in the methods used to determine reimbursement scenarios and rates, are ongoing at the federal and state government levels. The ACA and related healthcare reform laws, regulations and initiatives have significantly increased regulation of managed care plans and decreased reimbursement to Medicare managed care. Some of these initiatives purport to, among other things, require that health plan members have greater access to drugs not included on a plan’s formulary. Moreover, to alleviate budget shortfalls, states have reduced or frozen payments to Medicaid managed care plans. It is unclear how the ACA and its implementation, as well as efforts to repeal or replace, or invalidate, the ACA, or portions thereof, will affect our business. Additional legislative changes, regulatory changes, and judicial challenges related to the ACA remain possible. It is possible that the ACA, as currently enacted or as it may be amended in the future, and other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, could have an adverse effect on our industry and on our ability to maintain or increase sales of any of our products. Risks Related to Product Development, Market Access and Competition We face competition from numerous competitors, many of whom have far greater resources than we have, and, as a result, we may not be able to compete effectively. The medical device industry is intensely competitive, subject to rapid change resulting from technological advances and scientific discoveries as well as other market activities of industry participants. The Omnipod System competes with several existing insulin delivery devices as well as other methods for the treatment of diabetes. We also compete with Medtronic and Tandem, among others. Medtronic has been the insulin pump market leader for many years. The competitive landscape in our industry continues to undergo significant change. In addition to the established insulin pump competitors, several companies are working to develop and market new insulin “patch” pumps, smart pens, and other methods for the treatment of diabetes. These companies are at various stages of development and the number of such companies continuously changes as they enter or exit the market on an ongoing basis. 17 Some of our competitors are large, well-capitalized companies with more resources than we have. These companies may have competitive advantages over us, including: • significantly greater name recognition; • different and more complete reimbursement profiles; • established relations with healthcare professionals, customers and third-party payors; • larger and more established distribution networks; • greater experience in conducting research and development, clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and obtaining regulatory approval; and • greater financial and human resources for product development, sales and marketing, and patent litigation. As a result, we may not be able to compete effectively against these companies or their products, which may adversely impact our business. We also compete with MDI therapy, including smart pens, which is substantially less expensive than pump therapy. While we believe that pump therapy, in general, and the Omnipod System, in particular, have significant competitive and clinical advantages over MDI therapy, improvements in the effectiveness of MDI therapy may result in fewer people with insulin-dependent diabetes converting from MDI therapy to pump therapy than we expect and may result in negative price pressure. Our current competitors or other companies may at any time develop additional products for the treatment of diabetes. If an existing or future competitor develops a product that competes with or is superior to the Omnipod System, our revenue may decline. In addition, some of our competitors may compete by changing their pricing model or by lowering the price of their insulin delivery systems or ancillary supplies. If these competitors’ products were to gain acceptance by healthcare professionals, people with insulin-dependent diabetes or third-party payors, we could experience pricing pressure. If prices were to fall, our results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. Technological breakthroughs in diabetes monitoring, treatment or prevention could render the Omnipod System obsolete. The diabetes treatment market is subject to rapid technological change and product innovation. The Omnipod System is based on our proprietary technology, but a number of companies, medical researchers and pharmaceutical companies are pursuing new delivery devices, delivery technologies, sensing technologies, procedures, drugs and other therapeutics for the monitoring, treatment and/or prevention of insulin-dependent diabetes. For example, FDA approval of a commercially viable “closed-loop” or “hybrid closed-loop” system that combines continuous “real-time” glucose sensing or monitoring and automatic continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion in a manner that delivers appropriate amounts of insulin on a timely basis with reduced user direction could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and future profitability. Medtronic commercially launched a “hybrid closed-loop” system in 2017, and in 2020 Tandem launched an AID system, which could negatively impact our business. In addition, the National Institutes of Health and other supporters of diabetes research are continually seeking ways to prevent, cure or improve the treatment of diabetes. Any technological breakthroughs in diabetes monitoring, treatment or prevention could render the Omnipod System obsolete, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our own new product development initiatives may prove to be ineffective or not commercially successful. We have ongoing initiatives to develop products to improve the treatment of type 1 and type 2 diabetes. We may be unable to effectively introduce and market new products or may fail to keep pace with advances in technology. The healthcare industry is characterized by continuous technological change, resulting in changing consumer preferences and requirements. The success of our business depends on our ability to introduce new products and adapt to these changing technologies and consumer demands. To compete in the marketplace, we must make substantial investments in new product development whether internally or externally through licensing or acquisitions. Even if we can develop, manufacture and obtain regulatory and reimbursement approvals for our new products, the success of those products depends on market acceptance. Market acceptance for our new products could be affected by several factors, including the availability of alternative products from our competitors, the price of our products, the timing of our market entry, and our ability to market and distribute our products effectively. Our failure to introduce new and innovative products in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If the third parties on which we rely to conduct our clinical trials and to assist us with pre-clinical development do not perform as contractually required or expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory clearance or approval or commercialize our products. We rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators, contract laboratories and other third parties to conduct some of our clinical trials and pre-clinical investigations. If these third parties do 18 not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our pre-clinical development activities or clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, our products on a timely basis, or at all, and our business and operating results may be adversely affected. Furthermore, our third-party clinical trial investigators may be delayed in conducting our clinical trials for reasons outside of their control. Future market or clinical studies may be unfavorable to the Omnipod System and its efficacy, which could hinder our sales efforts and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. To help improve, market and sell the Omnipod System, we have sponsored, and expect to continue to sponsor market studies to assess various aspects of the Omnipod System’s functionality and its relative efficacy. The data obtained from the studies may be unfavorable to the Omnipod System or may be inadequate to support satisfactory conclusions. In addition, in the future we may sponsor clinical trials to assess certain aspects of the efficacy of the Omnipod System. If future clinical trials fail to support the efficacy of our current or future products, our sales may be adversely affected and we may lose an opportunity to secure clinical preference from prescribing clinicians, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, future clinical studies or articles regarding our existing products or any competing products may be published that either support a claim, or are perceived to support a claim, that a competitor’s product is clinically more effective or easier to use than the Omnipod System or that the Omnipod System is not as effective or easy to use as we claim. Additionally, diabetes associations, healthcare providers that focus on diabetes, or other organizations that may be viewed as authoritative could endorse products or methods that compete with the Omnipod System or otherwise announce positions that are unfavorable to the Omnipod System. Any of these events may negatively affect our sales efforts and result in decreased revenue. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Our success depends in part on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws, confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment of invention agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite these measures, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or misappropriated. Our ability to compete depends in part on our continued ability to develop or acquire commercially valuable intellectual property rights and to protect those rights adequately. We may not be able to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable. Further, we cannot ensure that our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents to us, that patents issued to or licensed by or to us in the past or in the future will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors or that these patents will be found to be valid or sufficiently broad to preclude our competitors from introducing technologies similar to those covered by our patents and patent applications. In addition, our ability to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights internationally may be limited in certain circumstances. For example, we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights effectively in China, where we rely on a third-party contract manufacturer to produce our product. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our efforts to safeguard our unpatented and unregistered intellectual property rights, including requiring employees, consultants and other third parties to sign confidentiality, non-disclosure, or assignment of invention agreements, may not be successful. The agreements may be breached and trade secrets and other proprietary information could be disclosed to our competitors. Further, we may have inadequate remedies for any breach. In addition, others may independently develop substantially equivalent or superior proprietary information and techniques or gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technologies. If we are unable to sufficiently protect our intellectual property rights and our intellectual property is disclosed or misappropriated, our competitiveness could be impaired, which would limit our growth and future revenue. To protect our intellectual property, we may need to assert claims of infringement against third parties. Any lawsuits that we initiate could be expensive, take significant time, and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. The outcome of litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights is highly unpredictable. A court could determine that some or all of our asserted intellectual property rights are not infringed, or are invalid, or unenforceable. Additionally, we may provoke third parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate, and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially valuable. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Claims that our current or future products infringe or misappropriate the proprietary rights of others could adversely affect our ability to sell those products and cause us to incur additional costs. We operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. We have settled infringement suits in the past and as disclosed in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, we are currently subject to patent infringement litigation with Roche Diabetes Care, Inc. In addition, we expect that we could be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as our revenue increases, the number of competitors grows and the functionality of products and technology in different industry segments overlaps. Third parties may currently have, or may eventually be issued, patents on which our current or future products or technologies may infringe. Any of these third parties might make a claim of infringement against us. Such litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in the expenditure of significant financial resources and the diversion of management’s time and resources. In addition, such litigation could cause negative publicity, adversely affect prospective users, cause product shipment delays, limit or prohibit us from manufacturing, marketing or selling our current or future products, and/or require us to develop non-infringing technology, make substantial payments to third parties, or enter into royalty or license agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If a successful claim of infringement were made against us and we could not develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, our revenue could decrease substantially, and we could be exposed to significant liability. A court could enter orders that temporarily, preliminarily or permanently enjoin consumers from using our products or us from manufacturing, selling, or importing our products, or could enter an order mandating that we undertake certain remedial activities. Risks Related to Economic Conditions and Operating Internationally Our financial condition and results of operations have been and may to continue to be adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has created significant volatility, uncertainty and economic disruption in the markets we sell our products into and operate in and negatively impacted business and healthcare activity globally. The pandemic and preventative measures taken to contain or mitigate the outbreak, including vaccine mandates, have caused, and are continuing to cause, business slowdown or shutdown in affected areas, supply chain disruptions, labor shortages, inflation and disruption in the financial markets globally. As a result, consumers may reduce their spending, new orders for our Omnipod System may decline and our user attrition rate may increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales, financial condition and results of operations. The COVID-19 pandemic also has the potential to significantly impact our supply chain if the manufacturing plants that produce our products or product components, the distribution centers where we manage our inventory, or the operations of our logistics and other service providers, including third parties that sterilize our products, are disrupted, temporarily closed or experience worker shortages for a sustained period of time. Although China, where we manufacture a significant portion of our product, has experienced a recovery and we are currently producing at pre-COVID-19 levels, should China suffer a COVID-19 relapse, it could hinder our ability to produce product and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, many employees have transitioned to a remote or hybrid work environment, which has increased risks associated with our information technology systems and networks. These increased risks include cyber-attacks, computer viruses, disruptions, or shutdowns that could result in a failure to protect our information technology systems and data integrity. The further spread of COVID-19, and the requirements to take action to help limit the spread of the illness, may impact our ability to carry out our business as usual. For example, the COVID-19 pandemic may divert healthcare resources away from the conduct of clinical trials and interrupt the operations of the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory agencies, which could delay product approval timelines, as it did for Omnipod 5. Our financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected by international business risks. In addition to the United States, we sell the Omnipod System in Europe, Canada, the Middle East and Australia. Our international operations are subject to risks that are inherent in conducting business under foreign laws, regulations and customs. International sales made up one third of our revenues in 2021 and we expect international sales to contribute significantly to our future growth. If the U.S. dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of other countries where we sell our products, such as the euro, our U.S. dollar reported revenue and income will decrease. Changes in the relative values of currencies occur regularly and, in some instances, may have a significant effect on our operating results. We also rely on third-party suppliers located in other countries. For example, a significant portion of our Omnipod Systems are manufactured at third-party contract manufacturer facilities in China. 20 Our efforts to introduce or expand our current or future products in international markets may not be successful, in which case we may have expended significant resources without realizing the expected benefit. Ultimately, the investment required for expansion into international markets could exceed the results of operations generated from this expansion. In addition to the risks discussed elsewhere in this Item 1A, other risks associated with doing business internationally, include: • political instability and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; • trade protection measures, such as tariff increases, and import and export licensing and control requirements; • negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws; • difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing international operations; • difficulties associated with foreign legal systems, including increased costs associated with enforcing contractual obligations in foreign jurisdictions; • changes in regulatory requirements; • adapting to the differing laws and regulations, business and clinical practices, and consumer preferences in international markets; • difficulties in managing international relationships, including any relationships that we establish with foreign partners, distributors or sales or marketing agents; and • difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods. In addition, in January 2020, the U.K. withdrew from the European Union, commonly referred to as “Brexit”.  The effects of Brexit will depend on the terms of the U.K.’s future relationship with the European Union. Although it is unknown what those terms will be, it is possible that there could be greater restrictions on imports and exports and on the movement of people between the U.K. and European Union countries, and increased regulatory complexities. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws could materially adversely affect our business and result in civil and/or criminal sanctions. The FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery laws enacted in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Because of the predominance of government-sponsored healthcare systems around the world, most of our customer relationships outside of the United States are with governmental entities and are therefore subject to such anti-bribery laws. Because we do business in the U.K., the U.K. Bribery Act also extends to our interaction with public and private sector entities and persons outside the U.K., including in the U.S. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance programs, our internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of anti-bribery laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Risks Related to Supply Chain, Operations and Third-Party Arrangements Our Omnipod System inventory is produced and maintained in a limited number of locations. Our manufacturing of the Omnipod System is conducted in two locations, at our U.S. manufacturing facility in Massachusetts and on manufacturing lines owned by us at a facility located in China that is operated by a third-party contract manufacturer. Political or financial instability, currency fluctuations, the outbreak of pandemics such as COVID-19, labor unrest, transport capacity and costs, port security, weather conditions, natural disasters, or other events that could slow or disrupt port activities and affect foreign trade are beyond our control and could materially disrupt our supply of product from China, increase our costs, and/or adversely affect our results of operations. Further, following the COVID-19 pandemic there may be increased pressure for U.S. medical device companies to reduce dependency on China for their supply chain. In addition, substantially all of our U.S. Omnipod System inventory is held at a single location in Massachusetts and our European Omnipod System inventory is maintained by a third-party logistics entity primarily in a single location in the Netherlands. We take precautions to ensure that our third-party contract manufacturer and logistics entity safeguard our assets, including insurance, health and safety protocols, and off-site storage of computer data. However, a natural or other disaster, such as a fire or flood, could cause substantial delays in our operations, damage or destroy our manufacturing equipment and/or inventory and cause us to incur additional expenses. The insurance we maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. With or without insurance, damage to our facility, manufacturing equipment, inventory or other property or to any of our suppliers, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 If we are unable to obtain sufficient components or raw materials on a timely basis or if we experience manufacturing difficulties, including not effectively managing the start-up of new manufacturing lines, our business may be harmed. The manufacture of our product requires the timely delivery of sufficient amounts of quality components and materials. We acquire our components and materials from many suppliers in various countries. We work closely with our suppliers to ensure the continuity of supply, but we cannot guarantee these efforts will always be successful. Further, while efforts are made to diversify our sources of components and materials, in certain instances we acquire components and materials from a sole supplier. In addition, due to the stringent regulations and requirements of the FDA and similar regulatory agencies in other countries regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for some components or materials. A reduction or interruption in supply, and an inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, could hinder our ability to manufacture our products in a timely or cost-effective manner, and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The manufacture of our product is highly exacting and complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. Problems in the manufacturing process, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, defective raw materials and environmental factors, could lead to launch delays, product shortage, unanticipated costs, lost revenues and damage to our reputation. A failure to identify and address manufacturing problems prior to the release of products to our customers may also result in a quality or safety issue. Significant manufacturing problems or inability to obtain key components and materials could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, as we commence operation of new manufacturing lines, we could experience quality issues and unexpected operational delays that decrease our gross margins and cause a shortage of product supply. We are dependent upon third-party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply problems and price fluctuations. We rely on suppliers who manufacture the components for and perform assembly of the Pods and PDMs. In addition, a third-party contract manufacturer in China performs assembly and supplies a significant portion of all finished Omnipod Systems. We do not have long-term supply agreements with all of our suppliers, and, in many cases, we, or our contract manufacturer, make purchases based on individual purchase orders. In some cases, our agreements with suppliers can be terminated by either party upon short notice. Additionally, our suppliers may encounter problems during manufacturing for a variety of reasons, including failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, failure to comply with applicable regulations, equipment malfunction, component part supply constraints and environmental factors, any of which could delay or impede their ability to meet our demand. Our reliance on these third-party suppliers also subjects us to other risks that could harm our business, including: • our suppliers may give other customers’ needs higher priority than ours affecting their ability to deliver products to us in a timely manner, as we are not a major customer of many of our suppliers; • we may not be able to obtain an adequate supply in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms; • our suppliers may make errors in manufacturing that could negatively affect the safety or efficacy of our products, cause delays in shipment or negatively affect our reputation; • we may have difficulty locating and qualifying alternative suppliers for our sole-source supplies; • switching components may require product redesign and submission to the FDA of a new 510(k); • thefts of our trade secrets and intellectual property could occur with the third-party supply process; • the occurrence of a fire, natural disaster or other catastrophe, impacting one or more of our suppliers, may affect their ability to deliver products to us in a timely manner; • our suppliers may encounter financial hardships unrelated to our demand, which could inhibit their ability to fulfill our orders and meet our requirements, and • our suppliers may fail to comply with conflict minerals, anti-slavery or other applicable laws, thus impairing our ability to source materials. We may not be able to quickly establish additional or alternative suppliers, particularly for our sole-source suppliers, in part because of the FDA approval process and because of the custom nature of various parts. An interruption or delay in obtaining products from our third-party suppliers, or our inability to obtain products from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and cause them to cancel orders or switch to competing products. 22 We rely on agreements or licenses to intellectual property or other rights in order to sell our current product and commercialize new products. We rely on agreements or licenses to intellectual property or other rights in order to sell our current product and commercialize new products. If we cannot retain or obtain these agreements, licenses, or other rights, we may not be able to sell, develop or commercialize our products. For example, our rights to incorporate the FreeStyle blood glucose meter into the Omnipod are governed by a license agreement with Abbott. In addition, we have a commercial agreement with Dexcom that allows us to sell Omnipod 5 with integration to Dexcom’s CGM and have a development agreement with Abbott to integrate Abbott’s CGM into Omnipod 5. The loss of any of these rights could impair the functionality of the Omnipod System or prevent us from selling our products without significant development and regulatory activities that may not be completed in time to prevent an interruption in the availability of the Omnipod System to consumers. This could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also have a partnership with Glooko that allows the Omnipod System to connect with Glooko’s cloud-based diabetes data management system so that users and healthcare providers can monitor user data, including insulin delivery trends and blood glucose levels. Our agreement with Glooko expires in December 2025. If this agreement is not renewed in the future, our business could be materially adversely impacted. Our non-insulin drug delivery product line faces challenges which, if not met, may impair its future success. Our non-insulin drug delivery product line involves the development, manufacture and sale of a modified Omnipod System for delivery of a specific drug other than insulin. Most of our commercialized drug delivery revenue consists of sales of a customized version of our product for use in Amgen’s Neulasta Onpro kit under an agreement that expires in December 2023. The marketing and sales initiatives driving this product line differ markedly from those on which we rely for our sales of Omnipod Systems to treat diabetes since the non-insulin drug delivery devices depend on marketing and sales to pharmaceutical companies, not to users and clinicians. We expect that the future results of our non-insulin drug delivery product line will face several challenges, including: • our identification of drug delivery opportunities for a modified Omnipod System; • our achievement of satisfactory development and pricing terms with the pharmaceutical companies that sell such drugs; • our development of appropriate modifications to our Omnipod System technology to address the needs and parameters required for the respective drug-delivery opportunities; • manufacturing issues relating to the modified Omnipod System; • long lead-times associated with the development, regulatory approvals and ramp up applicable to the use of modified Omnipod Systems for the delivery of such drugs; • relatively small number of modified Omnipod Systems needed to address each drug-delivery opportunity; • uncertainties regarding the market acceptance of such drugs and the modified Omnipod System as appropriate delivery device; • uncertainties relating to the success of the pharmaceutical companies in marketing and selling such drugs as well as the modified Omnipod Systems as the appropriate delivery devices; • intense competition in the drug-delivery industry, including from competitors which have substantially greater resources; • demand for non-insulin drugs, including the impact of generics and biosimilars; • maintaining appropriate gross margins; and • regulatory requirements and reimbursement rates associated with such drugs. If we are unsuccessful in overcoming one or more of these challenges, or if our agreement with Amgen is terminated or not renewed, our financial results could be materially and adversely impacted. Risks Related to Government Regulation and Litigation We are subject to extensive government regulation, which could restrict the sales and marketing of our products and could cause us to incur significant costs. Our medical device products and operations are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and various other federal, state, local and foreign government authorities. Government regulation of medical devices is meant to assure their safety and effectiveness, and includes regulation of, among other things: 23 • design, development and manufacturing; • testing, labeling, and content and language of instructions for use and storage; • clinical trials; • regulatory clearances and approvals including premarket clearance and approval; • product safety; • advertising and promotion; • marketing, sales and distribution; • conformity assessment procedures; • product traceability and record keeping procedures; • product complaints, complaint reporting, recalls and field safety corrective actions; • post-market surveillance, including reporting of deaths or serious injuries and malfunctions that, if they were to recur, could lead to death or serious injury; • post-market studies; and • product import and export. Before a new medical device, or a significant modification of a medical device, including a new use of or claim for an existing product, can be marketed in the United States, it must first receive either 510(k) clearance or PMA from the FDA, unless an exemption applies. In December 2012, we received 510(k) clearance for our Omnipod Insulin Management System. We have since obtained clearance for modified versions of this device, including Omnipod DASH, which was cleared by the FDA in 2018 and Omnipod 5, which was cleared by the FDA in January 2022. We may be required to obtain a new 510(k) clearance or PMA for significant further post-market modifications to the Omnipod System. Obtaining 510(k) clearance or PMA for medical devices can be expensive and lengthy, and entail significant user fees. Further, we may not be able to obtain additional 510(k) clearances or PMAs for new products or for modifications to, or additional indications for, the Omnipod System in a timely fashion or at all. Delays in obtaining future clearances could adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn could harm our revenue and future profitability. We also are subject to numerous post-marketing regulatory requirements, which include quality system regulations related to the manufacture of our devices, labeling regulations and medical device reporting regulations. The last of these regulations requires us to report to the FDA if our devices cause or contribute to a death or serious injury, or malfunction in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction recurred. If we fail to comply with present or future regulatory requirements that are applicable to us, we may be subject to enforcement action by the FDA, which may include any of the following sanctions: • untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; • customer notification, or orders for repair, replacement or refunds; • voluntary or mandatory recall or seizure of our current or future products; • administrative detention by the FDA of medical devices believed to be adulterated or misbranded; • operating restrictions, suspension or shutdown of production; • refusing our requests for 510(k) clearance or PMA of new products, new intended uses or modifications to the Omnipod System; • rescinding 510(k) clearance or suspending or withdrawing PMAs that have already been granted; and • criminal prosecution. The occurrence of any of these events may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the FDA may change its clearance and approval policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, or take other actions that may prevent or delay approval or clearance of our products under development or impact our ability to modify our currently approved or cleared products on a timely basis. The FDA is in the process of reviewing the 510(k) approval process and criteria and has announced initiatives to improve the current pre- and post-market regulatory processes and requirements associated with infusion pumps and other home use medical devices. As part of this effort, the FDA is reviewing the adverse event reporting and recall processes for insulin pumps. Any change in the laws or regulations that govern 24 the clearance and approval processes relating to our current and future products could make it more difficult and costly to obtain clearance or approval for new products, or to produce, market and distribute existing products. The Omnipod System is also sold in Canada, Australia and certain countries in Europe and the Middle East. As a result, we are required to comply with additional foreign regulatory requirements. As we expand our sales efforts internationally, we may need to obtain additional foreign approval certifications. Failure to fulfill foreign regulatory requirements on a timely basis or at all could adversely affect our ability to grow our business. If we, our contract manufacturer or our component suppliers fail to comply with the FDA’s quality system regulations, the manufacturing and distribution of our devices could be interrupted, and our sales and operating results could suffer. We, our contract manufacturer and our component suppliers are required to comply with the FDA’s QSR, which is a complex regulatory framework that covers the procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, sterilization, labeling, packaging, storage, shipping and servicing of our devices. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is monitored rigorously through periodic, sometimes unannounced, inspections by the FDA. We cannot assure you that our facilities or our contract manufacturer or component suppliers’ facilities would pass any future quality system inspection. If our or our contract manufacturers’ or component suppliers’ facilities fails a quality system inspection, the manufacturing or distribution of our devices could be interrupted, and our operations disrupted. Failure to take adequate and timely corrective action in response to an adverse quality system inspection could force a suspension or shutdown of our labeling operations or the manufacturing operations of our contract manufacturer, or a recall of our devices. If we, or our manufacturer, fail to adhere to QSR requirements, this could delay production of our products and lead to fines, difficulties in obtaining regulatory clearances, recalls, enforcement actions, including injunctive relief or consent decrees, or other consequences, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Malfunction of our products could lead to recalls or safety alerts and have a significant adverse impact on us. The FDA and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our products if we or our contract manufacturer fails to comply with relevant regulations pertaining to manufacturing practices, labeling, advertising or promotional activities, or if new information is obtained concerning the safety or efficacy of these products. A government-mandated recall could occur if the FDA finds that there is a reasonable probability that the device would cause serious, adverse health consequences or death. A voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of any material deficiency in a device, such as manufacturing defects, labeling deficiencies, packaging defects or other failures to comply with applicable regulations. Adverse events involving our products have been reported to us in the past, and we cannot guarantee that they will not occur in the future. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, such as our voluntary Medical Device Corrections issued in February 2020 and January 2021, may require the dedication of our time and capital, could distract management from operating our business and potentially harm our reputation and financial results. In the event of a recall, we may also be subject to liability claims, be required to bear other costs, or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our future sales and our ability to generate profits. Companies are required to maintain certain records of recalls, even if they are not reportable to the FDA. We may initiate voluntary recalls involving our products in the future that we determine do not require notification to the FDA. If the FDA disagrees with our determinations, they could require us to report those actions as recalls. In addition, the FDA could take enforcement action for failing to report the recalls when they were conducted. We may be subject to enforcement action if we engage in improper marketing or promotion of our products. Our promotional materials and training methods must comply with FDA and other applicable laws and regulations, including the prohibition of the promotion of unapproved, or off-label, use. Doctors may prescribe our products off-label, as the FDA does not restrict or regulate a doctor’s choice of treatment within the practice of medicine. However, if the FDA determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an off-label use, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory or enforcement actions, including the issuance of an untitled letter, a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine or criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an off-label use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. In that event, our reputation could be damaged, and adoption of the products could be impaired. Although our policy is to refrain from statements that could be considered off-label promotion of our products, the FDA or another regulatory agency could disagree with our characterization of certain statements and conclude that we have engaged in off-label promotion. In addition, the off-label use of our products may increase the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims are expensive to defend and could divert management’s attention, result in substantial damage awards against us, and 25 harm our reputation. If we were found to be noncompliant with state DME licensure rules, we could lose our licensure in that state, which could prohibit us from selling our current or future products directly to consumers in that state . Several states require that DME providers be licensed in order to sell products to customers in that state. Certain of these states require, among other things, that DME providers maintain an in-state location. Although we believe we are in compliance with all applicable state regulations regarding licensure requirements, if we were found to be noncompliant, we could lose our licensure in that state, which could prohibit us from selling our current or future products directly to consumers in that state. The medical device industry is heavily regulated. If we fail to comply with all applicable laws and government regulations, we could be subject to substantial penalties and/or be excluded from participation in government programs. Our relationships with customers and third-party payors are subject to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs and certain customer and product support programs, we may have with hospitals, physicians, customers or other potential purchasers of medical devices. These laws include, among others, the federal healthcare Anti-Kickback Statute, the federal civil False Claims Act, other federal healthcare false statement and fraud statutes, the Open Payments program, the Civil Monetary Penalties Law, and analogous fraud and abuse and transparency laws in most states, as described in “Item 1—Business—Government Regulation”. We conduct various marketing and product training activities that involve making payments to healthcare providers and entities. While we believe and make every effort to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties and other activities and programs comply with all applicable laws, these laws are complex and our activities may be found not to be compliant with one of these laws, which may result in significant civil, criminal and/or administrative penalties, fines, damages, and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. Even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to respond to, and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our compliance with Medicare and Medicaid regulations may be reviewed by federal or state agencies, including the OIG, CMS, and the Department of Justice, or may be subject to whistleblower lawsuits under federal and state false claims laws. To ensure compliance with Medicare, Medicaid, and other regulations, government agencies conduct periodic audits of us to ensure compliance with various supplier standards and billing requirements. Risks Related to Privacy and Security We are subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations regarding privacy and data protection, many of which are subject to change and uncertain interpretation, which could result in claims, changes to our business practices, monetary penalties, increased cost of operations, or declines in user growth or engagement, or otherwise harm our business. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations relating to privacy and data protection, data security, data retention and deletion, personal information, electronic contracts, and other communications. The introduction of new products or expansion of our activities in certain jurisdictions may subject us to additional laws and regulations. For example, data privacy laws at the federal and state levels protect the confidentiality of certain health information and restrict the use and disclosure of that protected information. In particular, the U.S. privacy rules under HIPAA protect medical records and other personal health information by limiting their use and disclosure, giving individuals the right to access, amend and seek accounting of their own health information and limiting most use and disclosures of health information to the minimum amount reasonably necessary to accomplish the intended purpose. In California, the CCPA, which provides certain privacy rights and consumer protection for residents of the state became effective in 2020, and the CPRA, which amends and expands the CCPA, will take effect in 2023. These consumer rights include the right to know what personal information is collected, the right to know whether the data is sold or disclosed and to whom, the right to request a company to delete the personal information collected, the right to opt-out of the sale of personal information and the right to non-discrimination in terms of price or service when a consumer exercises a privacy right. Colorado and Virginia have enacted similar privacy laws that will also take effect in 2023. California and other states’ laws apply more broadly and now or in the future may reach data we hold that relates to employees and healthcare providers, not just customers. In addition, data security protection laws passed by the federal government and many states require notification to data subjects, including customers and others, when there is a security breach of personal data. If we fail to comply with these regulations, we could be subject to civil sanctions, including fines and penalties for noncompliance. In addition, foreign data protection, privacy, and other laws and regulations can be more restrictive than those in the United States. Data localization laws in some countries generally mandate that certain types of data collected in a particular country be stored and/or processed within that country. We could be subject to audits in Europe and around the world, particularly in the areas of consumer and data protection, as we continue to grow and expand our operations. Legislators and regulators may make legal and regulatory changes, or interpret and apply existing laws, in ways that make our products less useful to users, require us to incur substantial costs, expose us to unanticipated civil or criminal liability, or cause us to change our business practices. 26 These changes or increased costs could negatively impact our business and results of operations in material ways. For example, the GDPR imposes requirements in the European Economic Area relating to, among other things, consent to process personal data of individuals, the information provided to individuals regarding the processing of their personal data, the security and confidentiality of personal data, notifications in the event of data breaches and use of third-party processors. If we fail to comply with these standards, we could be subject to criminal penalties and civil sanctions, including significant fines and penalties. The increased scope of regulation around the world may require expanded compliance programs and resources. As our efforts to gain insights from data increase for the operation of our products and services and for the improvement of business processes, including sales and marketing, our exposure to increasingly complex privacy regulation may impede our ability to use data in this way. We rely on the proper function, availability and security of our product and information technology systems and a successful cyber-attack or other breach or disruption of our product or these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We rely on information technology systems to process, transmit and store electronic information in our day-to-day operations. The nature of our business involves the receipt and storage of personal and financial information regarding our customers, including sensitive medical information. We use our information technology systems to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including sales, shipping, billing, customer service, procurement, and supply chain, manufacturing and accounts payable. In addition, we use enterprise information technology systems to record, process, and summarize transactions and other financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with financial reporting, legal, and tax regulatory requirements. Many of our information systems are cloud-hosted and managed by third-party vendors, some of which may have access to confidential business, employee, healthcare professional, and/or customer information. Our information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication failures, user errors or catastrophic events. Any failure by us to maintain or protect our information technology systems and data integrity, including from cyber-attacks, intrusions, disruptions or shutdowns, could result in the unauthorized access to customer data and personally identifiable information, theft of intellectual property or other misappropriation of assets or the loss of key data and information, or otherwise compromise our confidential or proprietary information and disrupt our operations. Additionally, the FDA has warned that insulin pumps may have cybersecurity vulnerabilities and could be manipulated by hackers, causing danger to people with diabetes. After extensive testing and research in conjunction with an independent third-party firm, a potential security vulnerability in the Omnipod was identified. (This vulnerability does not exist in Omnipod DASH or Omnipod 5.) Successful exploitation of this vulnerability may allow an attacker to gain access to the Pod to intercept, modify, or interfere with the wireless RF communications to or from the PDM. This may allow attackers to read sensitive data, change pump settings or control insulin delivery. Insulet is aware of a specific group of people with diabetes who have been able to duplicate the Pod communication protocol using a smartphone and a bridge, which in turn allows the Pod to be controlled using an unauthorized device. This practice is commonly referred to as Do-It-Yourself (DIY) and is not the intended use for the Omnipod System. Insulet has not provided the DIY community with any type of information or input on the product, nor has Insulet been provided with any information proving that this form of off-label use is a safe use of the system. This practice does not exist with Omnipod 5. If our product is breached or our information technology systems are breached or suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and we are unable to effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our reputation, business, and operating results may be materially adversely affected. Failure to maintain the privacy and security of our customer, third-party payor, employee, supplier or Company information could result in substantial costs and/or subject us to litigation, enforcement actions and reputational damage. Our business, like that of most medical device manufacturers, involves the receipt, storage and transmission of customer information and payment and reimbursement information, as well as confidential information about third-party payors, our employees, our suppliers and our Company. Our information systems are vulnerable to an increasing threat of continually evolving cybersecurity risks. Unauthorized parties may attempt to gain access to our systems or information through fraud or other means of deceiving our employees or third-party service providers. Hardware, software, or applications we develop or obtain from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information and device security. The methods used to obtain unauthorized access, disable, or degrade service or sabotage systems are also constantly changing and evolving, and may be difficult to anticipate or detect for long periods of time. We have implemented and regularly review and update processes and procedures to protect against unauthorized access to or use of secured data and to prevent data loss. However, the ever-evolving threats mean we must continually evaluate and adapt our 27 systems and processes, and our efforts may not be adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches, misuse of data, or sabotage of our systems. Any future significant compromise or breach of our data security, whether external or internal, or misuse of customer, third-party payor, employee, supplier, or Company data, could result in significant costs, lost sales, fines, lawsuits, and damage to our reputation. In addition, as the regulatory environment related to information security, data collection and use, and privacy becomes increasingly rigorous, with new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our business, compliance with those requirements could also result in additional costs. Risks Related to Our Debt We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt, which is substantial. As of December 31, 2021, we had debt of $1.4 billion, including $800 million aggregate principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes, which mature in 2026. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance the Convertible Senior Notes or other debt obligations depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund these obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the outstanding Convertible Senior Notes. We cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our future debt agreements. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and additional borrowings, refinancings, or proceeds from asset sales are not available to us, we may not have sufficient cash to enable us to meet all of our obligations. Our Credit Agreement imposes restrictions on us that may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Our Credit Agreement contains covenants that restrict our ability, and that of our subsidiaries, to engage in certain transactions, including, among other things, limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make asset dispositions, create or permit liens, sell, transfer or exchange assets, guarantee certain indebtedness and make acquisitions or other investments.   These restrictions may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. Conversion of any of our Convertible Senior Notes may dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders or depress our stock price. The conversion of some or all our Convertible Senior Notes may dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of any of our common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes could depress the price of our common stock. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards may be subject to limitation. Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code imposes an annual limit on the amount of net operating loss carryforwards that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in its stock ownership or equity structure. Our ability to use net operating losses may be limited by prior changes in our ownership and may be further limited by the issuance of common stock in connection with the conversion of our Convertible Senior Notes, or by the consummation of other transactions. As a result, our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset U.S. federal taxable income may become subject to limitations. General Risks Our success depends on our ability to attract, motivate, and retain key personnel. Our success depends on our ability to retain our employees and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in the future. We face intense competition for employees, particularly in light of recent labor shortages and as people are increasingly able to work remotely. We face challenges in maintaining employee well-being, recognizing that the additional financial, family, and health burdens that many employees may be experiencing due to the COVID-19 pandemic and related economic uncertainties may adversely impact job performance and employee retention. Losing members of our senior management, and other highly skilled personnel could prevent or delay the implementation and completion of our objectives or divert management’s attention to seeking qualified replacements and ensuring seamless transitions. Additionally, the sale and after-sale support of the Omnipod System is logistically complex, requiring us to maintain an extensive infrastructure of field sales personnel, diabetes educators, customer support, insurance specialists, and billing and collections personnel. We face considerable challenges in recruiting, training, managing, motivating, and retaining these employees, including managing geographically dispersed teams. If we fail to maintain and grow an adequate pool of trained and motivated personnel, our reputation could suffer, and our financial position could be adversely affected. 28 Acquisitions or investments in new businesses, products or technologies could disrupt our business. If we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may pursue acquisitions or investments in complementary businesses, products or technologies. For example, in January 2022, we acquired one of our suppliers. We may not complete the transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and we may not realize the expected benefits of any acquisition or investment. Even if we are successful in making an acquisition, the products and technologies that we acquire may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than we originally anticipated. We could also experience negative effects on our results of operations and financial condition from acquisition-related charges, amortization of intangible assets and asset impairment charges if the acquisitions are not as successful as we originally anticipate. Acquisitions present risks, uncertainties and disruptions associated with the integration process, including difficulties in the integration of the operations of any acquired company, integration of acquired technology with our products, and the potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors, or suppliers of the acquired businesses. In addition, integration of an acquired business may require management resources that otherwise would be available for development of our existing business. If an acquired business fails to operate as anticipated or cannot be successfully integrated into our existing business, our stock price, business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, we may have to incur debt or issue equity to pay for any future acquisitions or investments, the issuance of which could be dilutive to our existing stockholders. We may need to raise additional funds in the future, and these funds may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • revenue generated by sales of our current products and any other future products that we may develop; • costs associated with capital expenditures, including adding additional manufacturing capacity; • costs associated with any expansion, including expanding our sales and marketing efforts globally; • expenses we incur in manufacturing and selling our products; • costs of developing new products or technologies and enhancements to our products; • costs of complying with regulatory requirements, including obtaining and maintaining FDA approval or clearance of our current or future products; • costs associated with litigation; and • the number and timing of any acquisitions or other strategic transactions. We may in the future seek additional funds from public and private stock offerings, borrowings under credit lines, or other sources, and we may need to raise additional debt or equity financing to repay our outstanding Senior Convertible Notes or other debt obligations. If we issue equity or debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaboration, licensing or other similar arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish valuable rights to our potential future products or proprietary technologies or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Our ability to raise additional capital may be adversely impacted by current economic conditions, including any sustained disruption to the credit and financial markets from the COVID-19 pandemic. If the macro-economic disruption continues for pro-longed periods, we may need to raise additional capital and capital may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. We cannot predict when the macro-economic disruption stemming from COVID-19 will ebb or when the economy will return to pre-COVID-19 levels, if at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital due to these or other factors, we may need to further manage our operational expenses, including potentially curtailing planned product development activities. In addition, we may not be able to execute our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements. If any of these events occur, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock is affected by a number of factors, including: • failure to maintain and increase production capacity and reduce per unit production costs; • changes in the availability of third-party reimbursement in the United States or other countries; • volume and timing of orders for our products; • developments in administrative proceedings or litigation related to intellectual property rights; • issuance of patents to us or our competitors; 29 • the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • the announcement of technological or medical innovations in the treatment or diagnosis of diabetes; • changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals or applications; • publication of clinical studies relating to our products or a competitor’s product; • quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ results of operations; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; and • general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. At times, the fluctuations in the market price of our common stock have been unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance. In particular, the U.S. equity markets have at times experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies. Broad market and industry factors such as these could materially and adversely affect the market price of our stock, regardless of our actual operating performance.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included in this annual report. The following discussion may contain forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs, which are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed under the headings “Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Statements.” Overview We are primarily engaged in the development, manufacture and sale of our proprietary Omnipod System, a continuous insulin delivery system for people with insulin-dependent diabetes. The Omnipod System features a small, lightweight, self-adhesive disposable tubeless Omnipod device that is worn on the body for up to three days at a time; and its wireless companion, the handheld PDM/Controller. The Omnipod System, which features discreet and easy-to-use devices, communicates wirelessly, provides for virtually pain-free automated cannula insertion and eliminates the need for MDI therapy or the use of pump and tubing. We believe that the Omnipod System’s unique proprietary design and features allow people with insulin-dependent diabetes to manage their diabetes with unprecedented freedom, comfort, convenience and ease. In addition to the diabetes market space, we have partnered with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to tailor the Omnipod System technology platform for the delivery of subcutaneous drugs across other therapeutic areas. Most of our drug delivery revenue currently consists of sales of pods to Amgen for use in the Neulasta® Onpro® kit, a delivery system for Amgen’s Neulasta to help reduce the risk of infection after intense chemotherapy. Our mission is to improve the lives of people with diabetes. To assist in achieving this mission, we are focused on the following key strategic imperatives: • expanding access and awareness; • delivering consumer-focused innovation; • growing our global addressable market; and • driving operational excellence. Our long-term financial objective is to sustain profitable growth. To achieve this goal, our efforts have been focused on the launch of Omnipod 5, which recently received FDA clearance for individuals aged six years and older with type 1 diabetes. Our limited market release of Omnipod 5 is underway. Additionally, we have completed our FDA submission to expand Omnipod 5’s indication down to age two, and are planning for an expanded indication in 2022. We have also recently completed our type 2 feasibility study and plan to conduct additional studies with the goal to further expand Omnipod 5’s indication to type 2 users. In our efforts to bring Omnipod 5 to international markets, we have submitted for CE Marking in Europe under MDR. In order to support our continued growth and the full commercial launch of Omnipod 5, we continue to focus on adding capacity to our U.S. manufacturing plant. During 2021, we began producing salable product on our third highly automated manufacturing line. We have also taken steps to strengthen our global manufacturing capabilities. We have optimized our operations in China by consolidating our production in that region into one location and we plan to invest in a new manufacturing plant in another international location to further diversify globally and increase efficiency to drive higher gross margins over time. In 2021, we completed our full commercial launch of Omnipod DASH, our digital mobile Omnipod platform, in the countries we serve with our roll out in Canada. Over the long term, we expect the introduction of Omnipod DASH throughout our international markets to be a growth driver as we increase our presence within our existing markets and enter into new countries. We are continuing to expand internationally in a targeted and strategic manner. During 2021, we increased our global footprint by expanding into Turkey and entered the Asia Pacific region with our launch in Australia. In 2022. we expect to enter additional countries in the Middle East. Further, we are working to bring Omnipod 5 to our international markets. Finally, we plan to continue to expand awareness of and access to our products, while also focusing on our product development efforts. The latter includes enhancing the customer experience through digital product offerings. Achieving the above strategic imperatives is expected to require additional investments in certain initiatives and personnel, as well as enhancements to our supply chain operation capacity, efficiency and effectiveness. 33 Results of Operations The discussion of our results of operations for 2019 has been omitted from this Form 10-K but can be found in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis and Results of Operations in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 24, 2021. Factors Affecting Operating Results Our Pods are intended to be used continuously for up to three days and then be replaced with a new disposable Pod. We recently achieved a milestone of approximately 300,000 global customers using Omnipod. As we grow our customer base, we generate an increasing portion of our revenue through recurring sales of our Pods, which provides consistent cash flow. Our recurring revenue business model, alongside the Omnipod System’s unique patented design enables us to provide pump therapy at a low or no up-front investment in regions where reimbursement allows for it. Our pay-as-you-go pricing model also reduces the risk to third-party payors. During 2020 and 2021, we were subject to challenging conditions stemming from the coronavirus pandemic (“COVID-19” or the “pandemic”). Containment efforts and responses to the pandemic have varied by individuals, businesses, state and local municipalities, and region. We believe people were less likely to change the way they manage their diabetes during the pandemic for a variety of reasons including temporary closure of doctors’ offices or a general unwillingness to visit a doctor’s office or hospital during the pandemic, particularly since those with diabetes are deemed at higher risk of suffering complications from COVID-19. While the pandemic had a negative impact on new customer starts and the effects will not be fully reflected in our results of operations and overall financial performance until future periods, we believe our overall recurring revenue model provides a solid financial foundation for strong cash flow generation. Further, the pandemic had a positive impact on our Drug Delivery revenue. We have also experienced and may continue to experience challenges stemming from the global supply chain disruption; however, to date we have been able to successfully mitigate any disruption. See “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report for further discussion of the possible impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business. Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020 Revenue (1) Constant currency revenue growth is a non-GAAP financial measure which should be considered supplemental to, and not a substitute for, our reported financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP. See “Management’s Use of Non-GAAP Measures.” Total revenue for 2021 increased $194.4 million, or 21.5%, to $1,098.8 million, compared with $904.4 million in 2020. Constant currency revenue growth of 19.7% was primarily driven by higher volume and, to a lesser extent, favorable sales channel mix. This increase was partially offset by the normalization of inventory levels at distributors, which were elevated in the prior year due to the launch of Omnipod DASH. U.S. Omnipod U.S. Omnipod revenue for 2021 increased $124.6 million, or 23.6%, to $651.5 million, compared with $526.9 million in 2020. This increase was primarily due to higher volumes driven by growing our customer base and, to a lesser extent, an increase due to growth through the pharmacy channel, where Pods have a higher average selling price from our pay-as-you-go pricing model in which we offer the PDM for no charge. This increase was partially offset by the impact of the pandemic on our recurring revenue. U.S. Omnipod revenue for 2021 includes $58.2 million of related party revenue that resulted from a shift in certain revenues from one distributor to another. Additional information regarding our related party transactions is provided in Note 5. In 2022, we expect strong Omnipod revenue growth driven by continued volume growth of Omnipod DASH, primarily in the pharmacy channel. International Omnipod International Omnipod revenue for 2021 increased $51.9 million, or 16.9%, to $359.9 million, compared with $308.0 million in 2020. Excluding the 5.3% favorable impact of currency exchange, the remaining 11.6% increase was primarily due to higher volumes as we continue to expand awareness and access to the Omnipod, partially offset by the normalization of inventory 34 levels at distributors, which were elevated in the prior year due to the launch of Omnipod DASH and the impact of the pandemic on our recurring revenue. In 2022, we expect higher International Omnipod revenue due to continued volume growth and market penetration aided by the ongoing adoption of Omnipod DASH throughout our international markets. We expect this revenue growth to be partially offset by competition from AID systems and the impact of the pandemic on our recurring revenue. Drug Delivery Drug Delivery revenue for 2021 increased $17.9 million, or 25.8%, to $87.4 million, compared with $69.5 million in 2020. This increase was primarily driven by increased production volume due to higher demand from our partner. In 2022, we expect Drug Delivery revenue to decline as production levels that were elevated during the pandemic normalize. Operating Expenses Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue for 2021 increased $24.6 million, or 7.6%, to $346.7 million, compared with $322.1 million in 2020. Gross margin was 68.4% in 2021, compared with 64.4% in 2020. The 400 basis point increase in gross margin was primarily driven by improved manufacturing efficiencies, higher average selling price due to growth in the pharmacy channel and a decrease in COVID-19 related costs, as the prior year included a period expense for two months of depreciation for under-utilized plant capacity, recruiting and screening expenses, expedited shipping costs and manufacturing incentives totaling $8.5 million, primarily associated with our contract manufacturer in Shenzhen, China. These increases were partially offset by higher production costs as we continue to scale U.S manufacturing. We expect gross margin for 2022 to be in the range of 67% to 68%. We anticipate gross margin will be negatively impacted by unfavorable product mix, higher costs associated with Omnipod 5 production, and continued higher production costs as we further scale U.S. manufacturing, and contend with inflation and global supply chain disruptions. We believe these higher costs will be partially offset by the benefits of continued improvements in global manufacturing and supply chain operations and increased volumes in the pharmacy channel. Research and Development Research and development expenses for 2021 increased $13.3 million, or 9.1%, to $160.1 million, compared with $146.8 million in 2020. This increase was primarily due to year-over-year headcount additions to support our continued investment in development of Omnipod products. We expect research and development spending in 2022 to increase compared with 2021 as we continue to invest in advancing our innovation and clinical pipeline and contend with inflation. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses for 2021 increased $82.0 million, or 21.4%, to $466.0 million, compared with $384.0 million in 2020. This increase was primarily attributable to year-over-year headcount additions, mainly to support international expansion, information technology, sales and commercial operations, a $14.1 million increase in advertising expense driven by our direct-to-consumer advertising campaign and online advertising, as well as a shift in resources and certain costs from our Omnipod 5 clinical efforts to our commercial strategy. These increases were partially offset by $14.6 million of cumulative amortization expense in the prior year related to the resolution of a purchase price contingency associated with the acquisition of customer relationships from a former European distributor in 2018, and $4.8 million of stock-based compensation expense in the prior year resulting from a company-wide 20 th anniversary equity grant to non-executives, a significant portion of which vested immediately. We expect selling, general and administrative expenses to increase in 2022 compared with 2021 due to expansion of our sales force and customer support personnel, investments to expand market acceptance and access for the Omnipod System, including direct-to-consumer advertising, and investments in our operating structure to facilitate operational efficiencies and continued growth. 35 Non-Operating Items Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net for 2021 increased $16.1 million, or 35.7%, to $61.2 million, compared with $45.1 million in 2020. This increase was primarily driven by cash interest expense associated with the Term Loan entered into in May 2021. As discussed under “ Accounting Standards Issued and Not Yet Adopted as of December 31, 2021, ” in January 2022, we adopted Accounting Standards Update 2020-06, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments and Contracts in an Entity's Own Equity (“ASU 2020-06”) , which eliminated most of the non-cash interest expense associated with our convertible notes. Accordingly, we expect net interest expense to decrease approximately $30 million in 2022 compared with 2021. Loss on Extinguishment of Debt During 2021, we incurred a $42.4 million loss on extinguishment of debt related to the repurchase and conversion of all of our outstanding 1.375% Notes. Refer to Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Other (Expense) Income, Net During 2021, we had other expense, net of $1.9 million, compared with other income, net of $3.3 million in 2020. The $5.2 million decrease was primarily driven by unrealized foreign currency losses due to the change in exchange rates. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense was $3.7 million on pre-tax income of $20.5 million for 2021 and $2.9 million on pre-tax income of $9.7 million for 2020. Our effective tax rate was 18.2% and 29.6% for 2021 and 2020, respectively. The decrease in our effective tax rate was primarily driven by an increase in pre-tax income in the U.S. where we have net operating loss carryforwards to reduce taxable profits and a full valuation allowance against deferred tax assets. Additionally, we have not recorded tax benefits for current year losses in the United Kingdom due to valuation allowance requirements following a transfer of intellectual property that occurred during 2021. See Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on our income tax expense. Adjusted EBITDA The table below presents reconciliations of Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure, to net income, the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”): (1) The year ended December 31, 2020 includes $14.6 million of cumulative amortization expense associated with customer relationships that were acquired in 2018. For more information see Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. (2) The year ended December 31, 2020 includes $7.3 million of stock-based compensation expense related to a company-wide 20th anniversary equity grant (excluding executives), a significant portion of which immediately vested. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Management uses the following non-GAAP financial measures: Constant currency revenue growth represents the change in revenue between current and prior year periods using the exchange rate in effect during the applicable prior year period. We present constant currency revenue growth because we believe it provides meaningful information regarding our results on a consistent and comparable basis. Management uses this non-GAAP financial measure, in addition to financial measures in accordance with GAAP, to evaluate our operating results. It is also one of the performance metrics that determines management incentive compensation. Adjusted EBITDA represents net income (loss) plus net interest expense, income tax expense (benefit), depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation and other significant unusual items, as applicable. We present Adjusted EBITDA because management uses it as a supplemental measure in assessing our operating performance, and we believe that it is helpful 36 to investors, and other interested parties as a measure of our comparative operating performance from period to period. Adjusted EBITDA is a commonly used measure in determining business value and we use it internally to report results. These non-GAAP financial measures should be considered supplemental to, and not a substitute for, our reported financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, the above definitions may differ from similarly titled measures used by others. Non-GAAP financial measures exclude the effect of items that increase or decrease our reported results of operations; accordingly, we strongly encourage investors to review our consolidated financial statements in their entirety. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2021, we had $791.6 million in cash and cash equivalents. Additionally, we have a $60 million three year senior secured revolving credit facility (“Revolving Credit Facility”), which expires in 2024. At December 31, 2021, no amount was outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility. The Revolving Credit Facility contains a covenant to maintain a specified leverage ratio under certain conditions when there are amounts outstanding under the facility. It also contains other customary covenants, none of which are considered restrictive to our operations. We believe that our current liquidity will be sufficient to meet our projected operating, investing and debt service requirements for at least the next twelve months. Debt To finance our operations and global expansion, we have periodically issued convertible senior notes, which are convertible into our common stock. As of December 31, 2021, the following notes were outstanding: (1) Per $1,000 face value of notes. In connection with the issuance of the 0.375% Convertible Senior Notes (“0.375% Notes”), we purchased capped call options (“Capped Calls”) on our common stock. By entering into the Capped Calls, we expect to reduce the potential dilution to our common stock (or, in the event the conversion is settled in cash, to provide a source of cash to settle a portion of our cash payment obligation) in the event that at the time of conversion our stock price exceeds the conversion price under the 0.375% Notes. The Capped Calls have an initial strike price of $335.90 per share and cover 3.5 million shares of our common stock. During 2021, we obtained a $500 million seven year Term Loan for net proceeds of $489.5 million, which we used to fund the cash portion of the repurchase of our 1.375% Convertible Senior Notes due November 2024 (“1.375% Notes”). The Term Loan contains covenants restricting or limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make asset dispositions, create or permit liens, sell, transfer or exchange assets, guarantee certain indebtedness, and make acquisitions and other investments. Additional information regarding our debt is provided in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. Summary of Cash Flows Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities of $68.1 million in 2021 was primarily attributable to net income, as adjusted for depreciation and amortization, loss on extinguishment of debt, non-cash interest, and stock-based compensation, partially offset by a $263.6 million working capital cash outflow. The working capital outflow was driven by a $154.4 million increase in inventories, a $71.3 million increase in accounts receivable and a $46.7 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, partially offset by a $24.4 million increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities. The increase in inventories was primarily driven by a planned inventory build to satisfy demand and the addition of our third highly automated manufacturing line. The increase in accounts receivable was primarily due to an increase in U.S. pharmacy channel, which has longer payment terms. The increase in prepaid expenses and other assets was primarily driven by an increase in cloud computing implementation 37 costs. Finally, the increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities was primarily driven by an increase in rebates due to growth in the pharmacy channel and higher compensation costs due to head count additions. Net cash provided by operating activities of $84.0 million in 2020 was primarily attributable to net income, as adjusted for depreciation and amortization, non-cash interest, and stock-based compensation, partially offset by a $63.4 million working capital cash outflow. The working capital outflow was driven by a $50.5 million increase in inventories and a $34.1 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, partially offset by a $27.8 million increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities. The increase in inventories was primarily driven by a planned inventory build associated with the further roll out of Omnipod DASH and an increase in work in progress inventory due to additional capacity from our new contract manufacturer. The increase in prepaid expenses and other assets was primarily driven by an increase in software licenses due to head count additions, and an increase in software-as-a-service to support our strategic initiatives. The increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities, primarily driven by manufacturing operations costs associated with the addition of our contract manufacturer in Kunshan (Shanghai), China, as well as an increase in pharmacy rebates due to the growth in the pharmacy channel. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $82.7 million in 2021, compared with net cash provided by investing activities of $14.0 million in 2020. Capital Spending —Capital expenditures were $111.9 million and $129.0 million in 2021 and 2020, respectively, and primarily related to the purchase of equipment to increase our manufacturing capacity. We expect capital expenditures for 2022 to increase compared with 2021 as we continue to invest in manufacturing capabilities to support our growth and new product launches. We expect to fund our capital expenditures using existing cash. Purchases and Sales of Investments —Proceeds from maturities of marketable securities were $40.0 million in 2021, compared with net proceeds from maturities of $180.5 million for 2020. The $140.5 million decrease was driven by the prior year shift of a portion of our investment portfolio to investments that are classified as cash equivalents. Acquisition of Intangible Assets —In 2020, following the resolution of a purchase price contingency associated with our 2018 acquisition of customer relationships from a former European distributor, we paid the distributor an additional $36.2 million for a total purchase price of $41.2 million. We had previously paid the distributor $3.8 million in 2019 and the remainder in 2018. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $40.7 million in 2021, compared with $605.5 million in 2020. Debt Issuance and Repayment —During 2021, we received net proceeds of $489.5 million from the issuance of the Term Loan and used $460.9 million of the proceeds to partially fund the cash portion of the repurchase of a portion of our 1.375% Notes. In addition, we received net proceeds of $43.1 million from an equipment financing transaction and made $22.3 million in debt principal payments, which primarily related to our equipment financings. In 2020, we received net proceeds of $68.3 million upon entering into a mortgage of our Acton facility. Additionally, we received net proceeds of $60.0 million upon entering into two equipment financing transactions. Issuance of Common Stock —In 2020, we sold 2.4 million common shares for $478.7 million in an underwritten registered offering. Net proceeds from the offering were $477.5 million. The proceeds provided us with additional liquidity to mitigate risk and allowed us to continue investing in the growth of our business and our strategic initiatives. Option Exercises and Employee Stock Purchase Plan Proceeds —Total proceeds from option exercises was $15.4 million and $25.7 million in 2021 and 2020, respectively. The $10.3 million decrease was primarily driven by fewer option exercises by our former chief executive officer. Total proceeds from issuance of employee stock purchases was $8.1 million and $6.0 million in 2021 and 2020, respectively. The $2.1 million increase was primarily driven by growth in plan participation. Payment of Taxes for Restricted Stock Net Settlements —Payments for taxes related to net restricted and performance stock unit settlements were $28.2 million and $29.8 million in 2021 and 2020, respectively. The decrease in payments for taxes related to restricted stock net settlements was driven by a decrease in vesting of restricted shares in 2021, compared with 2020 driven by the immediate vesting of a significant portion of a company-wide 20th anniversary equity grant in the prior year. Commitments and Contingencies Contractual Obligations —A summary of our contractual obligations and commitments for debt, operating lease obligations and other obligations at December 31, 2021 is presented in the following table: 38 (1) Interest on debt and lease obligations are projected for future periods using the interest rates in effect as of December 31, 2021. Certain of these projected interest payments may differ in the future based on changes in market interest rates. (2) Excludes the impact of the interest rate swaps discussed in Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements. (3) Purchase obligations include commitments for the purchase of Omnipod System components, commitments related to establishing additional manufacturing capabilities and other commitments for purchases of goods or services in the normal course of business. These commitments are derived from purchase orders, supplier contracts and open orders based on projected demand information. Legal Proceedings —Roche Diabetes Care, Inc. (“Roche”) filed a patent infringement lawsuit against us and is seeking monetary damages and attorneys’ fees and costs. Since the patent expired in 2019, Roche is not seeking injunctive relief and the lawsuit will have no impact on ongoing sales of our products. We believe that we have meritorious defenses to Roche’s claims and intend to vigorously defend against them. At this time, based on available information regarding this litigation, we are unable to reasonably assess the ultimate outcome of this case or determine an estimate, or range of estimates, of potential losses, which could be material; accordingly, we have excluded this exposure from the contractual obligations table above. Refer to Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding this matter. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The following accounting policies are based on, among other things, judgments and assumptions made by management that include inherent risks and uncertainties. Management’s estimates are based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue when a customer obtains control of the promised products in an amount that reflects the net consideration to which we expect to be entitled. We sell products both direct to consumers and through distributors who resell the products to consumers. Transaction price is typically based on contracted rates less any estimates of claim denials and historical reimbursement experience, guidelines and payor mix, and less estimated variable consideration adjustments including rebates. Recognizing revenue requires us to exercise judgment and use estimates that can have a significant impact on the amount and timing of revenue we report. We exercise significant judgment when we determine variable consideration adjustments. The amount of variable consideration that is included in the transaction price is included in revenue only to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of the cumulative revenue recognized will not occur in a future period. We estimate reductions to our revenues for rebates paid to distributors in the United States and Canada and pharmacy benefit managers (“PBM”) in the United States. Rebates are based on contractual arrangements, which may vary. Our estimates are based on products sold, historical experience, trends, specific known market events and, as available, channel inventory data. Rebates charged against gross sales amounted to $143.3 million, $82.5 million and $59.1 million in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Provisions for rebates, sales discounts and returns, are accounted for as a reduction of sales when revenue is recognized and are included within accounts receivable trade or accrued expenses and other current liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, based upon the recipient of the rebate. If the actual amounts of consideration that we receive differ from our estimates, we would adjust our estimates and that would affect reported revenue in the period that such variances become known. Our drug delivery product line includes sales of a modified version of the Omnipod to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies who use our technology as a delivery method for their drugs. Revenue from the drug delivery product was $87.4 million for 2021. Revenue for this product line is recognized as the product is produced. Accounting for drug delivery revenue requires us to select a method to measure progress towards the satisfaction of the performance obligation. This election of the most meaningful measure of progress by which to recognize drug delivery revenue requires the application of judgment. We elected the input method and selected a blend of cost and time to produce as the measure of progress. Accordingly, revenue is recognized over time using a blend of costs incurred to date relative to total estimated costs at completion and time incurred to date relative to total production time to measure progress toward the satisfaction of our performance obligations. We believe 39 that both incurred cost and elapsed time reflect the value generated, which best depicts the transfer of control to the customer. Contract costs include third-party costs as well as an allocation of manufacturing overhead. Changes from quarter to quarter in quantity and stage of production of in-process inventory could have a significant quarterly impact on revenue. Contingencies We are involved in various legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business as further discussed in Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements, including a patent infringement case with Roche. Accruals recorded and related disclosures are based on judgment, both regarding the probability of losses and range of loss, and, where applicable, include the consideration of opinions of internal and/or external legal counsel. When a range is established but a best estimate cannot be made, we record the minimum loss contingency amount, which could be zero. An estimate is often initially developed substantially earlier than the ultimate loss is known and is reevaluated each accounting period. As information becomes known, additional loss provision is recorded when either a best estimate can be made, or the minimum loss amount is increased. When events result in an expectation of a more favorable outcome than previously expected, our best estimate is changed to a lower amount. We record receivables from third-party insurers up to the amount of the related liability when we have determined that existing insurance policies will provide reimbursement. In making this determination, we consider applicable deductibles, policy limits and the historical payment experience of the insurance carriers. Accounting Standards Issued and Not Yet Adopted as of December 31, 2021 In August 2020, the FASB issued ASU 2020-06, which simplifies the accounting for convertible instruments by eliminating certain separation models. Under ASU 2020-06, a convertible debt instrument will generally be reported as a single liability at its amortized cost with no separate accounting for embedded conversion features. Consequently, the effective interest rate of convertible debt instruments will be closer to the coupon interest rate. In addition, ASU 2020-06 eliminates the treasury stock method to calculate diluted earnings per share for convertible instruments and requires the use of the if-converted method. The guidance is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of 2022. Adoption of ASU 2020-06 as of January 1, 2022, resulted in a $213 million decrease in additional paid in capital from the derecognition of the bifurcated equity component, a $151 million increase in debt from the derecognition of the discount associated with the bifurcated equity component and a $62 million decrease to the opening balance of accumulated deficit, representing the cumulative interest expense recognized related to the amortization of the bifurcated conversion option. Additionally, we expect to write-off the related deferred tax liabilities with a corresponding adjustment to the valuation allowance, resulting in no net impact to the cumulative adjustment to retained earnings. Adoption of this standard will have no impact on our diluted earnings per share as we calculate earnings per share using the if-converted method. Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements relate to future events or our future financial performance. We generally identify forward looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “could,” “intends,” “targets,” “projects,” “contemplates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “potential” or “continue” or the negative of these terms or other similar words. These statements are only predictions. We have based these forward-looking statements largely on our current expectations and projections about future events and financial trends that we believe may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. You should not put undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. The risk factors discussed in “Risk Factors” could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements. In addition, there may be other risks and uncertainties that we are unable to predict at this time or that we currently do not expect to have a material adverse effect on our business. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements other than as required by law.