********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as the value of an investment in our common stock.  These risk factors do not identify all risks that we face; our operations could also be affected by factors, events or uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we do not currently consider to present significant risks to our operations. Risks Related to the COVID-19 Pandemic The Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic resulted in a significant decrease in demand for many of our products and has had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our business.  Any future widespread health crises could materially and adversely impact our business in the future. Our global operations expose us to risks associated with public health crises and outbreaks of epidemics, pandemics, or contagious diseases, such as COVID-19.  The COVID-19 pandemic and the associated containment efforts had a serious adverse impact on the economy and a material adverse effect on our business, particularly our Refining segment.  During 2020, demand for crude oil, gasoline, jet fuel, diesel fuel and other refined products was significantly reduced.  In the event government authorities impose any new mandatory closures, work-from-home orders and social distancing protocols, or other restrictions to mitigate the further spread of COVID-19, it is likely that demand for our products will again be impacted and our business will be negatively affected. Even if a virus or other illness does not spread significantly, the perceived risk of infection or health risk may result in reduced demand for our products and materially affect our business.  As we cannot predict the duration or scope of COVID-19 or any pandemic, the negative financial impact to our results cannot be reasonably estimated and could be material.  Factors that will influence the impact on our business and operations include the duration and extent of the pandemic, including the virulence and spread of different strains of a virus and the level and timing of vaccine development and distribution across the world and their impact on economic recovery and growth, the extent of imposed or recommended containment and mitigation measures and their impact on our operations, and the general economic consequences of the pandemic. To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic or other widespread public health crises adversely affected or affects our business and financial results, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks that could adversely affect our business described below, such as risks associated with industry capacity utilization, volatility in the price and availability of raw materials, material adverse changes in customer relationships including any failure of a customer to perform its obligations under agreements with us, and risks associated with worldwide or regional economic conditions. 22 Risks Related to Our Manufacturing and Operations Our financial results are affected by changing commodity prices and margins for refined petroleum, petrochemical and plastics products. Our financial results are largely affected by the relationship, or margin, between the prices at which we sell refined petroleum, petrochemical and plastics products and the prices for crude oil and other feedstocks used in manufacturing these products.  Historically, margins have been volatile, and we expect they will continue to be volatile in the future. The costs of feedstocks and the prices at which we can ultimately sell our products depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including regional and global supply and demand, which are subject to, among other things, production levels, levels of refined petroleum product inventories, productivity and growth of economies, and governmental regulation.  We do not produce crude oil and must purchase all of the crude we process.  The prices for crude oil and refined petroleum products can fluctuate based on global, regional and local market conditions, as well as by type and class of products, which can reduce margins and have a significant impact on our refining, wholesale marketing and retail operations, revenues, operating income and cash flows.  Also, crude oil supply contracts generally have market-based pricing provisions.  We normally purchase our refinery feedstocks weeks before manufacturing and selling the refined petroleum products.  We also purchase refined petroleum products produced by others for sale to our customers.  Changes in prices that occur between the time we purchase feedstocks or products and when we sell the refined petroleum products could have a significant effect on our financial results. The price of crude oil also influences prices for petrochemical and plastics products and the feedstocks used to manufacture the products.  Our Chemicals segment uses feedstocks that are derivatively produced in the refining of crude oil and the processing of natural gas, and those feedstock prices can fluctuate widely for a variety of reasons, including changes in worldwide energy prices and the supply and availability of the feedstocks.  Due to the highly competitive nature of most of the products sold by our Chemicals segment, market position cannot necessarily be protected by product differentiation or by passing on cost increases to customers.  As a result, price increases in raw materials may not correlate with changes in the prices at which petrochemical and plastics products are sold, thereby negatively affecting margins and the results of operations of our Chemicals segment. Market conditions, including commodity prices, may impact the earnings, financial condition and cash flows of our Midstream business. Our Midstream business is affected by the price of and demand for crude oil, natural gas and NGL, which have historically been volatile.  The prices for crude oil, natural gas and NGL depend upon factors beyond our control, including global and local demand, production levels, imports and exports, seasonality and weather conditions, economic and political conditions domestically and internationally, and governmental regulations.  Decreases in energy prices can decrease drilling activity, production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new crude oil and natural gas reserves.  Sustained periods of low prices can also cause producers to significantly curtail or limit their oil and gas drilling operations, which could substantially delay the production and delivery of volumes of crude oil, natural gas and NGL. The volume of crude oil and refined petroleum products transported or stored in our pipelines and terminal facilities depends on the demand for and availability of crude oil and refined petroleum products in the areas serviced by our assets.  A period of sustained low demand or prices for crude oil could lead to a decline in drilling activity and production, which would lead to a decrease in the volumes of crude oil transported through our pipelines and terminal facilities, negatively affecting our earnings and cash flows.  Likewise, our earnings and cash flows would be negatively impacted by a period of sustained lower demand for refined petroleum products, which could lead to lower refinery utilization and result in a decrease in the volumes of refined petroleum product transported through our pipelines and terminal facilities. 23 The natural gas gathered, processed, transported, sold and stored by DCP Midstream is delivered into pipelines for further delivery to end-users, including fractionation facilities.  Demand for these services may be substantially reduced due to lower rates of natural gas production as a result of declining commodity prices.  Commodity prices, including when ethane prices are low relative to natural gas prices, can also negatively impact throughput volumes of NGL transported, fractionated and stored by DCP Midstream.  Additionally, DCP Midstream’s revenues and cash flows can increase or decrease as the price of natural gas and NGL fluctuates because of certain contractual arrangements whereby natural gas is purchased for an agreed percentage of proceeds from the sale of the residue gas and/or NGL resulting from its processing activities. Additionally, the level of production from natural gas wells will naturally decline over time.  In order to maintain or increase throughput levels on its gathering and transportation pipeline systems and NGL pipelines and the asset utilization rates at its natural gas processing plants, DCP Midstream must continually obtain new supplies.  The level of successful drilling activity and prices of, and demand for, natural gas and crude oil, as well as producers’ desire and ability to obtain necessary permits are some of the factors that may affect new supplies of natural gas and NGL.  If DCP Midstream is not able to obtain new supplies of natural gas to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells or because of competition, throughput on its pipelines and the utilization rates of its treating and processing facilities would decline.  This could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows, and its ability to make cash distributions to us. Our operations are subject to planned and unplanned downtime, business interruptions, and operational hazards, any of which could adversely impact our ability to operate and could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our operating results are largely dependent on the continued operation of facilities and assets owned and operated by us and our equity affiliates.  Interruptions may materially reduce productivity and thus, the profitability, of operations during and after downtime, including for planned turnarounds and scheduled maintenance activities.  In the past, we and certain of our equity affiliates also have temporarily shut down facilities due to the threat of severe weather, such as hurricanes.  Although we take precautions to ensure and enhance the safety of our operations and minimize the risk of disruptions, our operations are also subject to hazards inherent in chemicals, refining and midstream businesses, such as explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents, power outages, labor disputes, or other natural or man-made disasters, such as geopolitical conflicts and acts of terrorism, including cyber intrusion.  The inability to operate facilities or assets due to any of these events could significantly impair our ability to manufacture, process, store or transport products. Any casualty occurrence involving our assets or operations could result in serious personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property and equipment, environmental pollution, impairment of operations and substantial losses to us.  For assets located near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of damage resulting from these risks could be greater.  Damages resulting from an incident involving any of our assets or operations may result in our being named as a defendant in one or more lawsuits asserting potentially substantial claims or in our being assessed potentially substantial fines by governmental authorities.  Should any of these risks materialize at any of our equity affiliates, it could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial condition of the equity affiliate and negatively impact their ability to make future distributions to us. We are subject to interruptions of supply and offtake, as well as increased costs, as a result of our reliance on third-party transportation of crude oil, NGL and refined petroleum products. We often utilize the services of third parties to transport crude oil, NGL and refined petroleum products to and from our facilities.  In addition to our own operational risks, we could experience interruptions of supply or increases in costs to deliver refined petroleum products to market if the ability of the pipelines or vessels to transport crude oil or refined petroleum products is disrupted because of weather events, accidents, governmental regulations or third-party actions.  A prolonged disruption of the ability of a pipeline or vessel to transport crude oil, NGL or refined petroleum products to or from one or more of our refineries or other facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 24 Competition Risks Refining and marketing competitors that produce their own feedstocks, have more extensive retail outlets, or have greater financial resources may have a competitive advantage. The refining and marketing industry is highly competitive with respect to both feedstock supply and refined petroleum product markets.  We compete with many companies for available supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks and for outlets for our refined petroleum products.  We do not produce any of our crude oil feedstocks.  Some of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from their own production and some have more extensive retail outlets than we have.  Competitors that have their own production or extensive retail outlets (and greater brand-name recognition) are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. Some of our competitors also have materially greater financial and other resources than we have.  Such competitors have a greater ability to bear the economic risks inherent in all aspects of our business.  In addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual customers. Market demand for transportation and midstream services and the risk of overbuild could negatively impact the results of operations of our Midstream business. We and our Midstream equity affiliates compete with other pipelines and terminals that provide similar services in the same markets as our assets.  We compete on the basis of many factors, including but not limited to rates, service levels and offerings, geographic location, connectivity and reliability.  Our competitors could construct new assets or redeploy existing assets in a manner that would result in more intense competition.  Additionally, we could be required to increase our costs or reduce the fees we charge in order to retain our customers. We and our equity affiliates have made and continue to make significant investments in new infrastructure projects to meet market demand.  Similar investments have been made, and additional investments may be made in the future, by us, our competitors or by new entrants to the markets we serve.  The success of these investments largely depends on the realization of anticipated market demand, and these projects typically require significant development periods, during which time demand for such infrastructure may change, or additional investments by competitors may be made.  Any of these or other competitive forces could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows, as well as our ability to pay cash distributions. Strategic Performance and Future Growth Risks Large capital projects can take many years to complete, and market conditions could deteriorate significantly between the project approval date and the project startup date, negatively impacting expected project returns. Our basis for approving a large-scale capital project is the expectation that it will deliver an acceptable rate of return on the capital invested.  We base these forecasted project economics on our best estimate of future market conditions including the regulatory and operating environment.  Most large-scale projects take several years to complete.  During this multiyear period, market conditions can change from those we forecast, and these changes could be significant.  Accordingly, we may not be able to realize our expected returns from a large investment in a capital project, and this could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and our return on capital employed. 25 Plans we or our joint ventures may have to expand or construct assets, and plans for our future performance are subject to risks associated with societal and political pressures and other forms of opposition to the future development, transportation and use of carbon-based fuels.  Such risks could adversely impact our results of operations. Certain of our plans are based upon the assumption that societal sentiment will continue to enable, and existing regulations will remain in place to allow for, the future development, transportation and use of carbon-based fuels.  A portion of our growth strategy is dependent on our and our joint ventures’ ability to capture growth opportunities in the Midstream and Chemicals segments.  Policy decisions relating to the production, refining, transportation, marketing and use of carbon-based fuels are subject to political pressures and the influence and protests of environmental and other special interest groups.  For example, the construction or expansion of pipelines can involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political, and legal uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control.  We may not be able to identify or execute growth projects, and those that are identified may not be completed on schedule or at the budgeted cost.  In addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project.  Delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and our return on capital employed. Political and economic developments could affect our operations and materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. Actions of federal, state, local and international governments through legislation or regulation, executive order, permit or other review of infrastructure or facility development, and commercial restrictions could delay projects, increase costs, limit development, or otherwise reduce our profitability both in the United States and abroad.  Any such actions may affect many aspects of our operations, including: • Requiring permits or other approvals that may impose unforeseen or unduly burdensome conditions or potentially cause delays in our operations. • Further limiting or prohibiting construction or other activities in environmentally sensitive or other areas. • Requiring increased capital costs to construct, maintain or upgrade equipment, facilities or infrastructure. • Restricting the locations where we may construct facilities or requiring the relocation of facilities. In addition, the U.S. government can prevent or restrict us from doing business in foreign countries and from doing business with entities affiliated with foreign governments, which can include state oil companies and U.S. subsidiaries of those companies.  The Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) of the U.S. Department of the Treasury administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions based on U.S. foreign policy and national security matters.  The effect of any such OFAC sanctions could disrupt transactions with or operations involving entities affiliated with sanctioned countries, and could limit our ability to obtain optimum crude slates and other refinery feedstocks and effectively distribute refined petroleum products. Other political and economic risks include global pandemics; financial market turmoil; economic volatility and global economic slowdown; currency exchange rate fluctuations; short-term and long-term inflationary pressures; import or export restrictions and changes in trade regulations; supply chain disruptions; acts of terrorism, war, civil unrest and other political risks; limitations in the availability of labor to develop, staff and manage operations; and potentially adverse tax developments.  If any of these events occur, our businesses and results of operations may be adversely affected. 26 We may not be able to effectively identify, whether through acquisition, investment or development, lower-carbon opportunities on favorable terms, or at all, and failure to do so could limit our growth, our ability to participate in the energy transition, and our ability to meet our environmental goals and targets. Part of our strategy includes capturing growth opportunities in our Emerging Energy business to further advance our participation in the energy transition and meet our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reduction targets.  This strategy depends on our ability to successfully identify and evaluate acquisition and investment opportunities or develop and commercialize new technologies.  The number of lower-carbon opportunities may be limited, and we will compete with other energy companies for these limited opportunities, which could make them more expensive and the returns for our business less attractive and possibly cause us to refrain from making them at all. Further, certain lower-carbon opportunities will depend on technological and other advancements that may not be within our control and may not come to fruition or be economically feasible in the near term. Any new opportunities also may depend on the viability of new assets or businesses that are contingent on public policy mechanisms including investment tax credits, subsidies, renewable portfolio standards and carbon trading plans.  These mechanisms have been implemented at the state and federal levels to support the development of renewable energy, demand-side, and other clean infrastructure technologies.  The availability and continuation of public policy support mechanisms will drive a significant part of the economics and viability of lower-carbon and clean energy investments generally, as well as our participation in them.  If we are unable to identify and consummate acquisitions and investments, our ability to execute a portion of our growth strategy and meet our environmental goals may be impeded. Regulatory and Environmental, Climate and Weather Risks Climate change and severe weather may adversely affect our and our joint ventures’ facilities and ongoing operations. The potential physical effects of climate change and severe weather on our operations are highly uncertain and depend upon the unique geographic and environmental factors present.  We have systems in place to manage potential acute physical risks, including those that may be caused by climate change, but if any such events were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations.  Examples of potential physical risks include floods, hurricane-force winds, wildfires, freezing temperatures and snowstorms, as well as rising sea levels at our coastal facilities.  We have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs to protect our assets from physical risks and to employ processes, to the extent available, to mitigate such risks. We operate facilities located in coastal regions of the United States, which have been impacted by hurricanes that have required us to temporarily, or even permanently, shut down operations at those sites.  Due to significant damages from Hurricane Ida, we shut down the Alliance Refinery in connection with plans to convert it to a terminal.  CPChem also operates facilities on the Gulf Coast and has had to temporarily shut down sites as a result of hurricanes.  Any extreme weather events or rising sea levels may disrupt the ability to operate any facilities located near coastal areas or to transport crude oil, refined petroleum or petrochemical and plastics products in these areas.  Extended periods of such disruption could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.  We could also incur substantial costs to prevent or repair damage to these facilities.  Finally, depending on the severity and duration of any extreme weather events or climate conditions, our operations may need to be modified and material costs incurred, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There are certain environmental hazards and risks inherent in our operations that could adversely affect those operations and our financial results. The operation of refineries, power plants, fractionators, pipelines, terminals and vessels is inherently subject to the risks of spills, discharges or other inadvertent releases of petroleum or hazardous substances.  If any of these events had previously occurred or occurs in the future in connection with any of our refineries, pipelines or refined petroleum products terminals, or in connection with any facilities that receive our wastes or byproducts for treatment or disposal, other than events for which we are indemnified, we could be liable for all costs and penalties associated with their remediation under federal, state, local and international environmental laws or common law, and could be liable for property damage to third parties caused by contamination from releases and spills. 27 We expect to continue to incur substantial capital expenditures and operating costs as a result of our compliance with existing and future environmental laws and regulations. Our business is subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment.  These laws and regulations continue to increase in both number and complexity and affect our operations with respect to, among other things: • The discharge of pollutants into the environment. • Emissions into the atmosphere, such as nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide and mercury emissions, and GHG emissions, as they are, or may become, regulated. • The quantity of renewable fuels that must be blended into motor fuels. • The handling, use, storage, transportation, disposal and cleanup of hazardous materials and hazardous and nonhazardous wastes. • The dismantlement and abandonment of our facilities and restoration of our properties at the end of their useful lives. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods could be materially adversely affected. The adoption of climate change legislation or regulation could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the refined petroleum products we produce. Currently, multiple legislative and regulatory measures to address GHG and other emissions are in various phases of consideration, promulgation or implementation.  These include actions to develop international, federal, regional or statewide programs, which could require reductions in our GHG or other emissions, establish a carbon tax and decrease the demand for our refined products.  Requiring reductions in these emissions could result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls at our facilities and (iii) administer and manage any emissions programs, including acquiring emission credits or allotments. For example, in 2017, the California state legislature adopted Assembly Bill 398, which provides direction and parameters on utilizing cap and trade after 2020 to meet the 40% reduction target for GHG emissions from 1990 levels by 2030 specified in Senate Bill 32.  Compliance with the cap and trade program is demonstrated through a market-based credit system.  Additionally, the California Air Resources Board is now exploring the potential for additional GHG reductions by 2045 via a yet undefined carbon neutrality standard, and California’s governor has issued an Executive Order calling for a ban on the in-state sales of new cars containing internal combustion engines beginning in 2035.  Other states are proposing, or have already promulgated, low carbon fuel standards or similar initiatives to reduce emissions from the transportation sector.  If we are unable to pass the costs of compliance on to our customers, sufficient credits are unavailable for purchase, we have to pay a significantly higher price for credits, or if we are otherwise unable to meet our compliance obligation, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Federal, regional and state climate change and air emissions goals and regulatory programs are complex, subject to change and impose considerable uncertainty due to a number of factors including technological feasibility, legal challenges and potential changes in federal policy.  Increasing concerns about climate change and carbon intensity have also resulted in heightened societal awareness and a number of international and national measures to limit GHG emissions.  Additional stricter regulatory measures and investor pressure can be expected in the future and any of these changes may have a material adverse impact on our business or financial condition. 28 International climate change-related efforts, such as the 2015 United Nations Conference on Climate Change, which led to the creation of the Paris Agreement, may impact the regulatory framework of states whose policies directly influence our present and future operations.  Although the United States had previously withdrawn from the Paris Agreement, it has since taken the steps necessary to rejoin, which was effective in February 2021.  The U.S. climate change strategy and the impact to our industry and operations due to GHG regulation is unknown at this time. Increased regulation of the fossil fuel industry, particularly with respect to hydraulic fracturing, could result in reductions or delays in U.S. production of crude oil and natural gas, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Most of the crude oil and gas production of our Midstream segment’s customers is being produced from unconventional oil shale reservoirs.  These reservoirs require hydraulic fracturing completion processes to release the hydrocarbons from the rock so they can flow through casing to the surface.  Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into a formation to stimulate hydrocarbon production.  The EPA, as well as several state agencies, have commenced studies and/or convened hearings regarding the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities.  At the same time, certain environmental groups have suggested that additional laws may be needed to more closely and uniformly regulate the hydraulic fracturing process, and legislation has been proposed to provide for such regulation.  In addition, some communities have adopted measures to ban hydraulic fracturing in their communities. In addition, certain interest groups have also proposed ballot initiatives and constitutional amendments designed to restrict crude oil and natural gas development generally.  If ballot initiatives, local, state, or national restrictions or prohibitions are adopted and result in more stringent limitations on the production and development of crude oil and natural gas, producers may experience delays or curtailment in the permitting or pursuit of exploration, development or production activities. If legislative and regulatory initiatives cause a material decrease in the drilling of new wells and related servicing activities, it may reduce crude oil, natural gas and NGL supplies, negatively affecting the volume of products available to our Midstream segment and increasing feedstock prices for our Chemicals and Refining segments, resulting in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Compliance with the EPA’s Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) could adversely affect our financial results. The EPA has implemented the RFS pursuant to the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007.  The RFS program sets annual renewable volume obligation (RVO) requirements for the quantity of renewable fuels, such as ethanol, that must be blended into motor fuels consumed in the United States.  To provide certain flexibility in compliance options available to the industry, a Renewable Identification Number (RIN) is assigned to each gallon of renewable fuel produced in, or imported into, the United States.  As a producer of petroleum-based motor fuels, we are obligated to blend renewable fuels into the products we produce at a rate that is at least commensurate to the EPA’s RVO requirements and, to the extent we do not, we must purchase RINs in the open market to satisfy our obligation under the RFS program. We are exposed to the volatility in the market price of RINs.  We cannot predict the future prices of RINs.  RINs prices are dependent upon a variety of factors, including EPA regulations, the availability of RINs for purchase, and levels of transportation fuels produced, which can vary significantly from quarter to quarter.  If sufficient RINs are unavailable for purchase, if we have to pay a significantly higher price for RINs, or if we are otherwise unable to meet the EPA’s RVO requirements, including because the EPA mandates a blending quantity of renewable fuel that exceeds the amount that is commercially feasible to blend into motor fuel (a situation commonly referred to as “the blend wall”), our operations could be materially adversely impacted, up to and including a reduction in produced motor fuel for sale in the United States. 29 Societal, technological, political and scientific developments around emissions and fuel efficiency may decrease demand for transportation fuels. Developments aimed at reducing GHG emissions may decrease the demand or increase the cost for our transportation fuels.  Societal attitudes toward these products and their relationship to the environment may significantly affect our effectiveness in marketing our products.  Government efforts to steer the public toward non-petroleum-based fuel dependent modes of transportation may foster a negative perception toward transportation fuels or increase costs of our products, thus affecting the public’s attitude toward our major product.  Advanced technology and increased use of vehicles that do not use petroleum-based transportation fuels or that are powered by hybrid engines would reduce demand for motor fuel.  We may also incur increased production costs, which we may not be able to pass along to our customers. Additionally, renewable fuels, alternative energy mandates and energy conservation efforts could reduce demand for refined petroleum products.  Tax incentives and other subsidies can make renewable fuels and alternative energy more competitive with refined petroleum products than they otherwise might be, which may reduce refined petroleum product margins and hinder the ability of refined petroleum products to compete with renewable fuels. These developments could potentially have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Continuing political and social concerns about the issues of climate change may result in changes to our business and significant expenditures, including litigation-related expenses. Increasing attention to global climate change has resulted in increased investor attention and an increased risk of public and private litigation, which could increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business.  For example, shareholder activism has recently been increasing in our industry, and shareholders may attempt to effect changes to our business or governance, whether by shareholder proposals, public campaigns, proxy solicitations or otherwise.  Additionally, cities, counties, and other governmental entities in several states in the U.S. began filing lawsuits against energy companies in 2017, including Phillips 66.  The lawsuits seek damages allegedly associated with climate change, and the plaintiffs are seeking unspecified damages and abatement under various tort theories.  Similar lawsuits may be filed in other jurisdictions.  We believe these lawsuits are an inappropriate vehicle to address the challenges associated with climate change and will vigorously defend against them for lacking factual and legal merit.  The ultimate outcome and impact to us of any such litigation cannot be predicted with certainty, and we could incur substantial legal costs associated with defending these and similar lawsuits in the future.  Additionally, any of these risks could result in unexpected costs, negative sentiments about our company, disruptions in our operations, increases to our operating expenses and reduced demand for our products, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increased concerns regarding plastic waste in the environment, consumers selectively reducing their consumption of plastic products due to recycling concerns, or new or more restrictive regulations and rules related to plastic waste could reduce demand for CPChem’s plastic products and could negatively impact our equity interest. There is a growing concern with the accumulation of plastic, including microplastics, and other packaging waste in the environment.  Additionally, plastics have recently faced increased public backlash and scrutiny.  Policy measures to address this concern are being discussed or implemented by governments at all levels.  In addition, a host of single-use plastic bans and taxes have been passed by countries around the world and counties and municipalities throughout the U.S.  Increased regulation of, or prohibition on, the use of certain plastic products could reduce demand for certain of the products CPChem produces, which could negatively impact its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, thereby negatively impacting our equity earnings, and cash distributions that we receive, from CPChem. 30 Cybersecurity and Data Privacy Risks Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. Our information technology and infrastructure, or information technology and infrastructure of our third-party service providers (e.g., cloud-based service providers), may be vulnerable to attacks by malicious actors or breached due to human error, malfeasance or other disruptions.  Any such breaches could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen.  Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in one or more of the following outcomes: (i) a loss of intellectual property, proprietary information, or employee, customer or vendor data; (ii) public disclosure of sensitive information; (iii) increased costs to prevent, respond to, or mitigate cybersecurity events, such as deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, training employees, and engaging third-party experts and consultants; (iv) systems interruption; (v) disruption of our business operations; (vi) remediation costs for repairs of system damage; (vii) reputational damage that adversely affects customer or investor confidence; and (viii) damage to our competitiveness, stock price, and long-term stockholder value.  Although we have experienced occasional, actual or attempted breaches of our cybersecurity, we do not believe that any of these breaches has had a material effect on our business, operations or financial condition. A breach may also result in legal claims or proceedings against us by our shareholders, employees, customers, vendors, and governmental authorities (U.S. and non-U.S.).  Our infrastructure protection technologies and disaster recovery plans may not be able to prevent a technology systems breach or systems failure, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.  Furthermore, the continuing and evolving threat of cyberattacks has resulted in increased regulatory focus on prevention.  To the extent we face increased regulatory requirements, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to meet such requirements. Increasing regulatory focus on privacy and cybersecurity issues and expanding laws could expose us to increased liability, subject us to lawsuits, investigations and other liabilities and restrictions on our operations that could significantly and adversely affect our business. Along with our own data and information collected in the normal course of our business, we and our partners collect and retain certain data that is subject to specific laws and regulations.  The transfer and use of this data both domestically and across international borders is becoming increasingly complex.  This data is subject to governmental regulation at the federal, state, international, national, provincial and local levels in many areas of our business, including data privacy and security laws such as the European Union (EU) General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA). The GDPR applies to activities related to personal data that are conducted from an establishment in the EU.  As interpretation and enforcement of the GDPR evolves, it creates a range of new compliance obligations, which could cause us to incur additional costs.  Failure to comply could result in significant penalties that may materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, and cash flows. The CCPA, which came into effect on January 1, 2020, gives California residents specific rights in relation to their personal information, requires that companies take certain actions, including notifications for security incidents and may apply to activities regarding personal information that is collected by us, directly or indirectly, from California residents.  As interpretation and enforcement of the CCPA evolves, it creates a range of new compliance obligations, with the possibility for significant financial penalties for noncompliance that may materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, and cash flows. The GDPR and CCPA, as well as other data privacy laws that may become applicable to our business, pose increasingly complex compliance challenges and potentially elevate our costs.  Any failure by us to comply with these laws and regulations, including as a result of a security or privacy breach, could result in significant penalties and liabilities for us.  Additionally, if we acquire a company that has violated or is not in compliance with applicable data protection laws, we may incur significant liabilities and penalties as a result. 31 Risks Related to Our Joint Ventures and Our MLP Our investments in joint ventures decrease our ability to manage risk. We conduct some of our operations, including parts of our Midstream, Refining and Marketing and Specialities (M&S) segments, and our entire Chemicals segment, through joint ventures in which we share control with our joint venture partners.  Our joint venture partners may have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours or those of the joint venture, or our joint venture participants may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations, and we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone.  Failure by us, or an entity in which we have a joint venture interest, to adequately manage the risks associated with any acquisitions or joint ventures could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our joint ventures and, in turn, our business and operations. One of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of a publicly traded MLP, Phillips 66 Partners, which may involve a greater exposure to legal liability than our historic business operations, including with respect to the pending acquisition by us of all of the publicly held limited partner interests in Phillips 66 Partners (the Merger). One of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of Phillips 66 Partners, a publicly traded MLP.  Our control of the general partner of Phillips 66 Partners may increase the possibility that we could be subject to claims of breach of fiduciary duties, including claims of conflicts of interest, related to Phillips 66 Partners. Additionally, our directors and officers, as well as the directors and officers of the general partner of Phillips 66 Partners, could be subject to lawsuits relating to the Merger.  Such litigation is very common in connection with acquisitions of public companies, regardless of the merits related to the underlying acquisition.  While we will evaluate and defend against any actions vigorously, the costs of the defense of such lawsuits and other effects of such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Indebtedness, Capital Markets and Financial Risks Uncertainty and illiquidity in credit and capital markets can impair our ability to obtain credit and financing on acceptable terms and can adversely affect the financial strength of our business partners. Our ability to obtain credit and capital depends in large measure on the state of the credit and capital markets, which is beyond our control.  Our ability to access credit and capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, access to those markets, which could constrain our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions.  In addition, the cost and availability of debt and equity financing may be adversely impacted by unstable or illiquid market conditions.  Protracted uncertainty and illiquidity in these markets also could have an adverse impact on our lenders, commodity transaction counterparties, or our customers, preventing them from meeting their obligations to us. From time to time, our cash needs may exceed our cash from our consolidated operations and joint venture distributions, and our business could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to obtain necessary funds from financing activities.  From time to time, we may need to supplement cash generated from operations with proceeds from financing activities.  Uncertainty and illiquidity in financial markets may materially impact the ability of the participating financial institutions to fund their commitments to us under our liquidity facilities that are supported by a broad syndicate of financial institutions.  Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain the full amount of the funds available under our liquidity facilities to satisfy our cash requirements, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial position. 32 Investor sentiment towards climate change, fossil fuels and sustainability could adversely affect our business, the market price for our common stock and our access to capital markets. There have been efforts in recent years aimed at the investment community, including investment advisors, sovereign wealth funds, public pension funds, universities, and other groups, to promote the divestment of energy companies, as well as to pressure lenders and other financial services companies to limit or curtail activities with energy companies.  If these efforts are successful, our stock price and our ability to access capital markets may be negatively impacted. Members of the investment community are also increasing their focus on sustainability practices, including practices related to GHG and climate change, in the energy industry.  As a result, we may face increasing pressure regarding our sustainability disclosures and practices.  Additionally, members of the investment community may screen companies such as ours for sustainability performance before investing in our stock or participating in our financing activities. If we are unable to meet the sustainability standards set by these investors, we may lose investors, our stock price may be negatively impacted, our access to capital markets and lenders may be curtailed, and our reputation may be negatively affected. We do not fully insure against all potential losses, including those from extreme weather events, and, therefore, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by unexpected or underinsured liabilities and increased costs. We maintain insurance coverage in amounts we believe to be prudent, including against many, but not all, potential liabilities arising from operating hazards.  Uninsured or underinsured liabilities arising from operating hazards, including but not limited to, explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents involving our assets or operations, including climate-related weather events, could reduce the funds available to us for capital and investment spending and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Deterioration in our credit profile could increase our costs of borrowing money, limit our access to the capital markets and commercial credit, and could trigger co-venturer rights under joint venture arrangements. Our or Phillips 66 Partners’ credit ratings could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, the circumstances warrant.  If a rating agency were to downgrade our rating below investment grade, our or Phillips 66 Partners’ borrowing costs would increase, and our funding sources could decrease.  In addition, a failure by us to maintain an investment grade rating could affect our business relationships with suppliers and operating partners.  For example, our agreement with Chevron Corporation (Chevron) regarding CPChem permits Chevron to buy our 50% interest in CPChem for fair market value if we experience a change in control or if both Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. lower our credit ratings below investment grade and the credit rating from either rating agency remains below investment grade for 365 days thereafter, with fair market value determined by agreement or by nationally recognized investment banks.  As a result of these factors, a downgrade of credit ratings could have a material adverse impact on our future operations and financial position. The level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. Assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the expected return on plan assets for our pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans are evaluated by us based on a variety of independent sources of market information and in consultation with outside actuaries.  If we determine that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return, or health care cost trend rate, our future pension and postretirement benefit expenses and funding requirements could increase.  In addition, several factors could cause actual results to differ significantly from the actuarial assumptions that we use.  Funding obligations are determined based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date as required under relevant regulations.  Future pension funding requirements, and the timing of funding payments, could be affected by legislation enacted by governmental authorities. 33 We may incur losses as a result of our forward contracts and derivative transactions. We currently use commodity derivative instruments, and we expect to use them in the future.  If the instruments we utilize to hedge our exposure to various types of risk are not effective, we may incur losses.  Derivative transactions involve the risk that counterparties may be unable to satisfy their obligations to us.  The risk of counterparty default is heightened in a poor economic environment. Continuing Risks Related to Spin-Off from ConocoPhillips We are subject to continuing contingent liabilities of ConocoPhillips following the separation.  Further, ConocoPhillips has indemnified us for certain matters, but may not be able to satisfy its obligations to us in the future. In connection with our separation from ConocoPhillips, we entered into an Indemnification and Release Agreement and certain other agreements pursuant to which ConocoPhillips agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify ConocoPhillips for certain liabilities. Indemnities that we may be required to provide are not subject to any cap and may be significant.  Third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that ConocoPhillips has agreed to retain.  Further, the indemnity from ConocoPhillips may not be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, and ConocoPhillips may not be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations.  Each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 34

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Management’s Discussion and Analysis is the company’s analysis of its financial performance and financial condition, and of significant trends that may affect future performance.  It should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The terms “earnings” and “loss” as used in Management’s Discussion and Analysis refer to net income (loss) attributable to Phillips 66.  The terms “results,” “before-tax income” or “before-tax loss” as used in Management’s Discussion and Analysis refer to income (loss) before income taxes. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW AND BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT Phillips 66 is an energy manufacturing and logistics company with midstream, chemicals, refining, and marketing and specialties businesses.  At December 31, 2021, we had total assets of $55.6 billion. Executive Overview We reported earnings of $1.3 billion and generated $6.0 billion in cash from operating activities for the full year of 2021.  During 2021, we used available cash to fund capital expenditures and investments of $1.9 billion, pay dividends on our common stock of $1.6 billion, and pay down $1.5 billion in debt.  We ended 2021 with $3.1 billion of cash and cash equivalents and approximately $5.7 billion of total committed capacity available under our credit facilities. Our reported earnings for 2021 continued to reflect the ongoing impacts of the disruption to global economic activities caused by the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, primarily on our Refining segment.  However, through 2021 global refined petroleum product demand steadily recovered due to the easing of pandemic restrictions and the administration of COVID-19 vaccines. Consequently, margins and utilization for our Refining segment, margins and sales volumes for our Marketing and Specialities (M&S) segment, and throughput volumes for our Transportation business improved.  In addition, equity earnings from our Chemicals segment increased significantly due to higher margins driven by strong demand and tight product supply.  However, as uncertainty remains regarding the ongoing impact of the pandemic on the global economy, we will continue to be disciplined in our allocation of capital and monitor the performance of our portfolio. In 2021, we progressed strategic initiatives to position Phillips 66 for a lower-carbon future as a part of our commitment to play an important role in addressing climate change.  In September 2021, we announced a set of company-wide greenhouse gas (GHG) emission intensity reduction targets that we consider to be impactful, attainable and measurable.  By 2030, we expect to reduce GHG emission intensity by 30% for Scope 1 and 2 emissions from our operations and by 15% for Scope 3 emissions from our energy products, below 2019 levels.  Also in September 2021, we acquired a 16% interest in NOVONIX Limited (NOVONIX), a company that develops technology and supplies materials for lithium-ion batteries. In October 2021, we entered into a definitive merger agreement with Phillips 66 Partners to acquire all of the limited partner interests in Phillips 66 Partners not already owned by us on the closing date of the transaction.  The agreement provides for an all-stock transaction in which each outstanding Phillips 66 Partners common unitholder would receive 0.50 shares of Phillips 66 common stock for each Phillips 66 Partners common unit.  Phillips 66 Partners’ perpetual convertible preferred units would be converted into common units at a premium to the original issuance price prior to exchange for Phillips 66 common stock.  This merger is expected to close in March 2022, subject to customary closing conditions.  Upon closing, Phillips 66 Partners will become a wholly owned subsidiary of Phillips 66 and will no longer be a publicly traded partnership.  See Note 27—Phillips 66 Partners LP, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information on the pending merger transaction. 38 We continue to focus on the following strategic priorities: • Operating Excellence. Our commitment to operating excellence guides everything we do.  We are committed to protecting the health and safety of everyone who has a role in our operations and the communities in which we operate.  Continuous improvement in safety, environmental stewardship, reliability and cost efficiency is a fundamental requirement for our company and employees.  We employ rigorous training and audit programs to drive ongoing improvement in both personal and process safety as we strive for zero incidents.  In 2021, we achieved a 0.12 total recordable rate.  Since we cannot control commodity prices, controlling operating expenses and overhead costs, within the context of our commitment to safety and environmental stewardship, is a high priority.  Senior management actively monitors these costs and assesses opportunities for permanent cost reductions.  We are committed to protecting the environment and strive to reduce our environmental footprint throughout our operations.  Optimizing utilization rates and product yield at our refineries through reliable and safe operations enables us to capture the value available in the market in terms of prices and margins.  During 2021, our worldwide refining crude oil capacity utilization rate was 84% and our worldwide refining clean product yield was 83%. • Growth. A disciplined capital allocation process ensures we invest in projects that are expected to generate competitive returns.  Our strategy primarily focuses on investing in returns-focused growth opportunities in the Midstream and Chemicals segments, as well as our investments in renewable fuels projects to advance a lower-carbon future.  In 2022, we have budgeted $426 million in growth capital for our Midstream segment, which includes construction completion of Frac 4 at the Sweeny Hub.  In Chemicals, our share of expected self-funded growth capital spending by Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC (CPChem) is $502 million.  CPChem plans to use its growth capital to fund expansion of its normal alpha olefins production, optimization and debottleneck opportunities in the olefins and polyolefins chains, as well as continuing development of petrochemicals projects in the U.S. Gulf Coast and Qatar.  In Refining, we have budgeted $408 million of growth capital, primarily for the reconfiguration of the San Francisco Refinery in Rodeo, California, to a renewable fuels production facility, as part of the Rodeo Renewed project. • Returns. We plan to enhance Refining returns by increasing throughput of advantaged feedstocks, improving yields, optimizing our portfolio, and remaining committed to operating excellence.  For 2022, our M&S segment will continue to develop and enhance our retail network, including energy transition opportunities. • Distributions. We believe shareholder value is enhanced through, among other things, a secure, competitive and growing dividend, complemented by share repurchases.  In the fourth quarter of 2021, we increased our quarterly dividend by 2% to $0.92 per common share.  Regular dividends demonstrate the confidence our Board of Directors and management have in our capital structure and operations’ capability to generate free cash flow throughout the business cycle.  We suspended our share repurchase program in March 2020 to preserve liquidity.  As operating cash flows improve further, we will prioritize shareholder returns and debt repayment. • High-Performing Organization. We strive to attract, develop and retain individuals with the knowledge and skills to implement our business strategy and who support our values and culture.  Throughout the company, we focus on promoting an inclusive workplace that enables our diverse workforce to innovate, create value and deliver extraordinary performance.  We also focus on getting results in the right way and embracing our values as a common bond, and we believe success is both what we do and how we do it.  We encourage collaboration throughout our company, while valuing differences, respecting diversity, and creating a great place to work.  We foster an environment of learning and development through structured programs focused on enhancing functional and technical skills where employees are engaged in our business and committed to their own, as well as the company’s, success. 39 Business Environment The Midstream segment includes our Transportation and NGL businesses.  Our Transportation business contains fee-based operations not directly exposed to commodity price risk.  Our NGL business contains both fee-based operations and operations directly impacted by NGL prices.  The Midstream segment also includes our 50% equity investment in DCP Midstream.  During 2021, NGL prices increased significantly, compared with 2020, due to strong demand as economic activities gradually recovered following the administration of COVID-19 vaccines and the easing of pandemic restrictions. The Chemicals segment consists of our 50% equity investment in CPChem.  The chemicals and plastics industry is mainly a commodity-based industry where the margins for key products are based on supply and demand, as well as cost factors.  Compared with 2020, the benchmark high-density polyethylene chain margin increased significantly in 2021, due to continued strong demand and tight supply. Our Refining segment results are driven by several factors, including market crack spreads, refinery throughput, feedstock costs, product yields, turnaround activity, and other operating costs.  The price of U.S. benchmark crude oil, West Texas Intermediate (WTI) at Cushing, Oklahoma, increased to an average of $67.96 per barrel during 2021, compared with an average of $39.31 per barrel in 2020.  Market crack spreads are used as indicators of refining margins and measure the difference between market prices for refined petroleum products and crude oil.  Worldwide market crack spreads increased to an average of $17.09 per barrel during 2021, compared with an average of $8.33 per barrel in 2020.  The increases in crude oil prices and market crack spreads were primarily driven by a significant increase in demand for refined petroleum products, as economic activities gradually recovered following the administration of COVID-19 vaccines and the easing of pandemic restrictions, as well as tightening supply.  In 2021, renewable identification number (RIN) prices increased significantly, compared with 2020. Results for our M&S segment depend largely on marketing fuel and lubricant margins, and sales volumes of our refined petroleum and other specialty products.  While marketing fuel and lubricant margins are primarily driven by market factors, largely determined by the relationship between supply and demand, marketing fuel margins, in particular, are influenced by trends in spot prices, and where applicable, retail prices for refined petroleum products in the regions and countries where we operate.  In general, a downward trend of spot prices has a favorable impact on marketing fuel margins, while an upward trend of spot prices has an unfavorable impact on marketing fuel margins.  The global disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in reduced demand for refined petroleum and specialty products since March 2020.  Following the administration of COVID-19 vaccines in 2021 and the easing of pandemic restrictions, demand for refined petroleum and specialty products improved in 2021, compared with 2020. 40 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Consolidated Results A summary of income (loss) before income taxes by business segment with a reconciliation to net income (loss) attributable to Phillips 66 follows: 2021 vs. 2020 Net income attributable to Phillips 66 for the year ended December 31, 2021, was $1,317 million, compared with a net loss attributable to Phillips 66 of $3,975 million for the year ended December 31, 2020.  The improvement was primarily due to lower impairments, improved realized refining margins and higher equity earnings from CPChem, partially offset by income tax impacts from improved results. 2020 vs. 2019 Net loss attributable to Phillips 66 for the year ended December 31, 2020, was $3,975 million, compared with net income attributable to Phillips 66 of $3,076 million for the year ended December 31, 2019.  The decrease was mainly attributable to: • Lower realized refining margins and decreased refinery production. • A goodwill impairment in our Refining segment. • A long-lived asset impairment associated with our plan to reconfigure the San Francisco Refinery into a renewable fuels production facility, which impacted our Refining and Midstream segments. • Higher impairments of equity investments in our Midstream segment. These decreases were partially offset by an income tax benefit recognized in 2020, compared with income tax expense recognized in 2019. See Note 9—Impairments, and Note 16—Fair Value Measurements, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for information on impairments recorded in 2021, 2020 and 2019. See the “Segment Results” section for additional information on our segment results. 41 Statement of Operations Analysis 2021 vs. 2020 Sales and other operating revenues and purchased crude oil and products increased 74% and 77%, respectively, in 2021.  These increases were mainly due to higher prices for refined petroleum products, crude oil and NGL, as well as increased volumes for refined petroleum products and crude oil. Equity in earnings of affiliates increased $1,713 million in 2021.  The increase was primarily due to higher equity earnings from CPChem mainly driven by increased margins, WRB Refining LP (WRB) resulting from improved realized refining margins and higher refinery production, and Excel Paralubes LLC (Excel) attributable to higher base oil margins.  See Chemicals segment analysis in the “Segment Results” section for additional information on CPChem. Net gain on dispositions decreased 83% in 2021, mainly reflecting a before-tax gain of $84 million recognized in the second quarter of 2020 associated with a co-venturer’s acquisition of an ownership interest in the consolidated holding company that owns an interest in Gray Oak Pipeline, LLC.  See Note 27—Phillips 66 Partners LP, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information. Other income increased $388 million in 2021, primarily driven by an unrealized gain of $365 million related to the change in fair value of our investment in NOVONIX, which we acquired in the third quarter of 2021. Operating expenses increased 13% in 2021, mainly attributable to higher utility costs driven by increased commodity prices, higher employee-related expenses, and increased maintenance and repair costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 13% in 2021, primarily driven by higher selling expenses due to rising refined petroleum product prices and demand, increased employee-related expenses, and a benefit received from a legal settlement in the first quarter of 2020. Depreciation and amortization increased 15% in 2021, mainly due to asset retirements related to the shutdown of our Alliance Refinery in connection with plans to convert it to a terminal.  See Note 7—Properties, Plants and Equipment, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding asset retirements related to our Alliance Refinery. Impairments decreased 65% in 2021.  See Note 9—Impairments, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding impairments. Taxes other than income taxes decreased 12% in 2021, primarily driven by tax credits received from renewable diesel blending activity at our San Francisco Refinery in 2021, and lower property and franchise taxes. Interest and debt expense increased 16% in 2021, primarily driven by lower capitalized interest due to the completion of capital projects and the placement of assets into service, as well as higher average debt principal balances resulting from new debt issuances in the second and fourth quarters of 2020. We had income tax expense of $146 million in 2021, compared with an income tax benefit of $1,250 million in 2020, primarily due to before-tax income in 2021 versus a before-tax loss in 2020.  See Note 21—Income Taxes, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for more information regarding our income taxes. 42 2020 vs. 2019 Sales and other operating revenues and purchased crude oil and products both decreased 40% in 2020.  The decreases were mainly due to lower prices and volumes for refined petroleum products and crude oil, reflecting the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Equity in earnings of affiliates decreased 44% in 2020.  The decrease was primarily due to lower realized refining margins and decreased refinery production at WRB, and lower margins, partially offset by higher sales volumes, at CPChem.  See Chemicals segment analysis in the “Segment Results” section for additional information on CPChem. Net gain on dispositions increased $88 million in 2020.  The increase was mainly due to a gain of $84 million associated with a co-venturer’s prior-year acquisition of a 35% interest in Phillips 66 Partners’ consolidated holding company that owns an interest in Gray Oak Pipeline, LLC.  See Note 27—Phillips 66 Partners LP, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information. Operating expenses decreased 10% in 2020, primarily driven by our company-wide cost reduction initiatives in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, lower utility costs, and decreased refinery turnaround activities. Impairments increased $3,391 million in 2020.  See Note 9—Impairments, and Note 16—Fair Value Measurements, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information associated with impairments. We had an income tax benefit of $1,250 million in 2020, compared with income tax expense of $801 million in 2019, primarily due to a before-tax loss in 2020 versus before-tax income in 2019.  See Note 21—Income Taxes, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for more information regarding our income taxes. 43 Segment Results Midstream * Pipelines represent the sum of volumes transported through each separately tariffed consolidated pipeline segment. * * Excludes DCP Midstream. *** Includes 100% of DCP Midstream’s volumes. * Based on index prices from the Mont Belvieu market hub, which are weighted by NGL component mix. The Midstream segment provides crude oil and refined petroleum product transportation, terminaling and processing services, as well as natural gas and NGL transportation, storage, fractionation, processing and marketing services, mainly in the United States.  This segment includes our MLP, Phillips 66 Partners, our 50% equity investment in DCP Midstream, which includes the operations of its MLP, DCP Partners, and our 16% investment in NOVONIX. 2021 vs. 2020 Results from our Midstream segment increased $1,619 million in 2021, compared with 2020. Results from our Transportation business increased $170 million in 2021, compared with 2020.  The increase was primarily due to improved earnings from our equity affiliates, lower asset impairments, and increased pipeline volumes and tariffs.  These increases were partially offset by a before-tax gain of $84 million recognized in the second quarter of 2020 associated with a co-venturer’s acquisition of an ownership interest in the consolidated holding company that owns an interest in Gray Oak Pipeline, LLC, and increased depreciation and amortization expense from asset retirements related to the shutdown of the Alliance Refinery in the fourth quarter of 2021. Results from our NGL and Other business increased $306 million in 2021, compared with 2020.  The increase in 2021 was primarily driven by a $370 million increase in the value of our investment in NOVONIX, which we acquired in the third quarter of 2021, partially offset by higher utility costs due to increased natural gas prices. 44 Results from our investment in DCP Midstream increased $1,143 million in 2021, compared with 2020.  The increase in 2021 reflects a $1,161 million before-tax impairment of our investment in DCP Midstream recorded in the first quarter of 2020. See Note 9—Impairments, and Note 27—Phillips 66 Partners LP, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding the impairments and the $84 million before-tax gain, respectively. See the “Executive Overview and Business Environment” section for information on market factors impacting 2021 results. 2020 vs. 2019 Midstream’s results decreased $693 million in 2020, compared with 2019. Results from our Transportation business decreased $438 million in 2020, compared with 2019.  The decrease was primarily attributable to before-tax impairments of $300 million, decreased equity earnings, lower pipeline and terminal throughput volumes, and higher operating costs, partially offset by an $84 million before-tax gain recognized in the second quarter of 2020 associated with the Gray Oak Pipeline joint venture. The $300 million before-tax impairments consisted of a $120 million impairment of the pipeline and terminal assets associated with the planned reconfiguration of our San Francisco Refinery into a renewable fuels production facility, a $96 million impairment of Phillips 66 Partners’ equity investments in two crude oil logistics joint ventures, and an $84 million impairment of our equity investment in the canceled Red Oak Pipeline project. See Note 9—Impairments, and Note 27—Phillips 66 Partners LP, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding the impairments and the $84 million before-tax gain, respectively. Results from our NGL and Other business decreased $81 million in 2020, compared with 2019.  The decrease was mainly due to lower results from our trading activities and decreased margins, partially offset by higher export cargos and increased fractionation volumes from the startup of Frac 2 and Frac 3 in late 2020, as well as the startup of a new isomerization unit at our Lake Charles Refinery in the second half of 2019. Results from our investment in DCP Midstream decreased $174 million in 2020, compared with 2019.  The decrease was primarily due to higher impairment charges, partially offset by the recognition of a larger benefit to our equity earnings from the amortization of the basis difference associated with the impairments and DCP Midstream’s cost reduction initiatives in response to the challenging business environment.  See Note 6—Investments, Loans and Long-Term Receivables, and Note 9—Impairments, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding the impairments and the associated basis difference amortization related to our investment in DCP Midstream. 45 Chemicals The Chemicals segment consists of our 50% interest in CPChem, which we account for under the equity method.  CPChem uses NGL and other feedstocks to produce petrochemicals.  These products are then marketed and sold or used as feedstocks to produce plastics and other chemicals.  We structure our reporting of CPChem’s operations around two primary business lines: Olefins and Polyolefins (O&P) and Specialties, Aromatics and Styrenics (SA&S).  The O&P business line produces and markets ethylene and other olefin products.  Ethylene produced is primarily consumed within CPChem for the production of polyethylene, normal alpha olefins and polyethylene pipe.  The SA&S business line manufactures and markets aromatics and styrenics products, such as benzene, cyclohexane, styrene and polystyrene.  SA&S also manufactures and/or markets a variety of specialty chemical products.  Unless otherwise noted, amounts referenced below reflect our net 50% interest in CPChem. 2021 vs. 2020 Before-tax income from the Chemicals segment increased $1,209 million in 2021, compared with 2020.  The increase was primarily due to improved margins driven by increased sale prices reflecting strong demand and tight supply, partially offset by higher utility, turnaround, maintenance and repair costs. See the “Executive Overview and Business Environment” section for information on market factors impacting CPChem’s 2021 results. 2020 vs. 2019 Before-tax income from the Chemicals segment decreased $244 million in 2020, compared with 2019.  The decrease was mainly due to lower margins and decreased earnings from CPChem’s equity affiliates, partially offset by higher sales volumes and a favorable impact from lower-of-cost-or-market adjustments of inventories valued on the last-in-first-out (LIFO) basis attributable to petrochemical product price recovery in 2020. 46 Refining * See the “Non-GAAP Reconciliations” section for a reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to the most directly comparable measure under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP), income (loss) before income taxes per barrel. 47 The Refining segment refines crude oil and other feedstocks into petroleum products, such as gasoline, distillates and aviation fuels, as well as renewable fuels, at 12 refineries in the United States and Europe.  Our Alliance Refinery sustained significant impacts from Hurricane Ida in August 2021, and in the fourth quarter of 2021, we announced the shutdown of the refinery in connection with plans to convert it to a terminal. 2021 vs. 2020 Results from the Refining segment increased $3,606 million in 2021, compared with 2020.  The improved results in 2021 were primarily due to higher realized refining margins and lower asset impairments, partially offset by increased utility expenses and higher costs related to the shutdown of our Alliance Refinery.  The improved realized refining margins in 2021 were mainly attributable to increased market crack spreads, partially offset by higher RIN costs, lower clean product differentials and decreased secondary products margins. Our worldwide refining crude oil capacity utilization rate was 84% and 76% in 2021 and 2020, respectively.  The increase in 2021 was primarily driven by improved market demand for refined petroleum products following the administration of COVID-19 vaccines and the easing of pandemic restrictions. See Note 9—Impairments, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding impairments recorded in our Refining segment during 2021 and 2020. See the “Executive Overview and Business Environment” section for information on industry crack spreads and other market factors impacting this year’s results. 48 2020 vs. 2019 Results from the Refining segment decreased $8,141 million in 2020, compared with 2019.  The decreased results in 2020 were due to: • Lower realized refining margins and decreased refinery production.  A sharp decline in demand for refined petroleum products resulting from global economic disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic led to lower market crack spreads and reduced refinery production in 2020.  In addition, hurricane impacts contributed to the lower refinery production in the Gulf Coast region in 2020. • A before-tax long-lived asset impairment of $910 million in the third quarter of 2020 associated with our plan to reconfigure the San Francisco Refinery into a renewable fuels production facility. • A before-tax goodwill impairment of $1,845 million in the first quarter of 2020. Our worldwide refining crude oil capacity utilization rate was 76% and 94% in 2020 and 2019, respectively.  The lower utilization rate in 2020 was primarily due to reduced refining runs driven by lower demand for refined petroleum products as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as hurricane impacts in the Gulf Coast region. See Note 9—Impairments, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding impairments recorded in our Refining segment during 2020. 49 Marketing and Specialties The M&S segment purchases for resale and markets refined petroleum products, such as gasoline, distillates and aviation fuels, as well as renewable fuels, mainly in the United States and Europe.  In addition, this segment includes the manufacturing and marketing of specialty products, such as base oils and lubricants. 2021 vs. 2020 Before-tax income from the M&S segment increased $363 million in 2021, compared with 2020.  The increase in 2021 was primarily driven by higher realized U.S. marketing fuel margins and increased equity earnings from Excel due to improved base oil margins, partially offset by lower realized international marketing fuel margins. See the “Executive Overview and Business Environment” section for information on marketing fuel margins and other market factors impacting 2021 results. 2020 vs. 2019 Before-tax income from the M&S segment increased $13 million in 2020, compared with 2019.  The increase was primarily attributable to higher realized marketing fuel margins, partially offset by lower sales volumes for refined petroleum and specialty products driven by decreased demand. 50 Corporate and Other Net interest expense consists of interest and financing expense, net of interest income and capitalized interest.  Corporate overhead and other includes general and administrative expenses, technology costs, environmental costs associated with sites no longer in operation, foreign currency transaction gains and losses, and other costs not directly associated with an operating segment. 2021 vs. 2020 Net interest expense increased $98 million in 2021, compared with 2020, primarily driven by lower capitalized interest due to the completion of capital projects and the placement of assets into service, and higher average debt principal balances reflecting debt issuances in the second and fourth quarters of 2020, as well as costs associated with early debt retirement in 2021.  See Note 12—Debt, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information on the debt issuances in 2020 and debt repayment in 2021. Corporate overhead and other decreased $5 million in 2021, compared with 2020. 2020 vs. 2019 Net interest expense increased $70 million in 2020, compared with 2019, primarily due to higher average debt principal balances, reflecting new debt issuances during 2020, along with decreased interest income driven by lower interest rates in 2020.  See Note 12—Debt, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information on the debt issuances in 2020. Corporate overhead and other increased $7 million in 2020, compared with 2019. 51 CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY Financial Indicators To meet our short- and long-term liquidity requirements, we use a variety of funding sources but rely primarily on cash generated from operating activities and debt financing.  During 2021, we generated $6.0 billion in cash from operations.  We used available cash to fund capital expenditures and investments of $1.9 billion, pay dividends on our common stock of $1.6 billion, pay down $1.5 billion in debt, and fund an additional member loan to an equity affiliate of $310 million.  During 2021, cash and cash equivalents increased $633 million to $3.1 billion. Significant Sources of Capital Operating Activities During 2021, cash generated by operating activities was $6.0 billion, a $3.9 billion increase compared with 2020.  The increase was primarily due to improved realized refining margins, a U.S. federal income tax refund of $1.1 billion received in the second quarter of 2021, and higher cash distributions from our equity affiliates, partially offset by higher operating expenses. During 2020, cash generated by operating activities was $2.1 billion, a 56% decrease compared with 2019.  The decrease was primarily due to lower realized refining margins, driven by the global economic disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by lower cash income taxes paid. Our short- and long-term operating cash flows are highly dependent upon refining and marketing margins, NGL prices and chemicals margins.  Prices and margins in our industry are typically volatile, and are driven by market conditions over which we have little or no control.  Absent other mitigating factors, as these prices and margins fluctuate, we would expect a corresponding change in our operating cash flows. The level and quality of output from our refineries also impact our cash flows.  Factors such as operating efficiency, maintenance turnarounds, market conditions, feedstock availability, and weather conditions can affect output.  We actively manage the operations of our refineries, and any variability in their operations typically has not been as significant to cash flows as that caused by margins and prices.  Our worldwide refining crude oil capacity utilization was 84%, 76% and 94% in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.  Our worldwide refining clean product yield was 83%, 84% and 84% in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Equity Affiliate Operating Distributions Our operating cash flows are also impacted by distribution decisions made by our equity affiliates, including CPChem.  Over the three years ended December 31, 2021, our operating cash flows included aggregate distributions from our equity affiliates of $6,285 million, including $3,101 million from CPChem.  We cannot control the amount or timing of future distributions from equity affiliates; therefore, future distributions are not assured. 52 Tax Refunds We received a U.S. federal income tax refund of $1.1 billion in the second quarter of 2021. Revolving Credit Facilities and Commercial Paper Phillips 66 has a $5 billion revolving credit facility which may be used for direct bank borrowings, as support for issuances of letters of credit, and as support for our commercial paper program.  We have an option to increase the overall capacity to $6 billion, subject to certain conditions.  We also have the option to extend the scheduled maturity of the facility for up to two additional one-year terms after its July 30, 2024, maturity date, subject to, among other things, the consent of the lenders holding the majority of the commitments and of each lender extending its commitment.  The facility is with a broad syndicate of financial institutions and contains covenants that are usual and customary for an agreement of this type, including a maximum consolidated net debt-to-capitalization ratio of 65% as of the last day of each fiscal quarter.  The facility has customary events of default, such as nonpayment of principal when due; nonpayment of interest, fees or other amounts; and violation of covenants.  Outstanding borrowings under the facility bear interest, at our option, at either: (a) the Eurodollar rate in effect from time to time plus the applicable margin; or (b) the reference rate (as described in the facility) plus the applicable margin.  The facility also provides for customary fees, including commitment fees.  The pricing levels for the commitment fees and interest-rate margins are determined based on the ratings in effect for Phillips 66’s senior unsecured long-term debt from time to time.  Phillips 66 may at any time prepay outstanding borrowings under the facility, in whole or in part, without premium or penalty.  At December 31, 2021 and 2020, no amount had been drawn under the facility. Phillips 66 also has a $5 billion uncommitted commercial paper program for short-term working capital needs that is supported by our revolving credit facility.  Commercial paper maturities are contractually limited to 365 days.  At December 31, 2021 and 2020, no borrowings were outstanding under the program. Phillips 66 Partners has a $750 million revolving credit facility which may be used for direct bank borrowings and as support for issuances of letters of credit.  Phillips 66 Partners has an option to increase the overall capacity to $1 billion, subject to certain conditions.  Phillips 66 Partners also has the option to extend the facility for two additional one-year terms after its July 30, 2024, maturity date, subject to, among other things, the consent of the lenders holding the majority of the commitments and of each lender extending its commitment.  The facility is with a broad syndicate of financial institutions and contains covenants that are usual and customary for an agreement of this type.  The facility has customary events of default, such as nonpayment of principal when due; nonpayment of interest, fees or other amounts; and violation of covenants.  Outstanding revolving borrowings under the facility bear interest, at Phillips 66 Partners’ option, at either: (a) the Eurodollar rate in effect from time to time plus the applicable margin; or (b) the reference rate (as described in the facility) plus the applicable margin.  The facility also provides for customary fees, including commitment fees.  The pricing levels for the commitment fees and interest-rate margins are determined based on Phillips 66 Partners’ credit ratings in effect from time to time.  Borrowings under this facility may be short-term or long-term in duration, and Phillips 66 Partners may at any time prepay outstanding borrowings under the facility, in whole or in part, without premium or penalty.  At December 31, 2021, no borrowings were outstanding under this facility, compared with borrowings of $415 million at December 31, 2020.  At both December 31, 2021 and 2020, $1 million in letters of credit had been issued that were supported by this facility. We had approximately $5.7 billion and $5.3 billion of total committed capacity available under our revolving credit facilities at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. 53 Other Debt Issuances and Financings Senior Unsecured Notes In November 2021, Phillips 66 closed its public offering of $1 billion aggregate principal amount of 3.300% senior unsecured notes due 2052.  Interest on the Senior Notes due 2052 is payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 of each year, commencing on March 15, 2022.  Proceeds received from the public offering were $982 million, net of underwriters’ discounts and commissions, as well as debt issuance costs.  In December 2021, Phillips 66 used the proceeds from this offering, together with cash on hand, to repay $1 billion in aggregate principal amount of its $2 billion 4.300% Senior Notes due April 2022. In November 2020, Phillips 66 closed its public offering of $1.75 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes consisting of: • $450 million aggregate principal amount of Floating Rate Senior Notes due 2024. • $800 million aggregate principal amount of 0.900% Senior Notes due 2024. • $500 million aggregate principal amount of 1.300% Senior Notes due 2026. The Floating Rate Senior Notes bear interest at a floating rate, reset quarterly, equal to the three-month London Interbank Offered Rate plus 0.62% per year, subject to adjustment.  In December 2021, we used cash on hand to repay the $450 million Floating Rate Senior Notes due 2024.  Interest on the Senior Notes due 2024 and 2026 is payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 of each year, commencing on February 15, 2021.  Proceeds received from the public offering of senior unsecured notes in November 2020 were $1.74 billion, net of underwriters’ discounts and commissions, as well as debt issuance costs. In June 2020, Phillips 66 closed its public offering of $1 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes consisting of: • $150 million aggregate principal amount of 3.850% Senior Notes due 2025. • $850 million aggregate principal amount of 2.150% Senior Notes due 2030. In April 2020, Phillips 66 closed its public offering of $1 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes consisting of: • $500 million aggregate principal amount of 3.700% Senior Notes due 2023. • $500 million aggregate principal amount of 3.850% Senior Notes due 2025. Interest on the Senior Notes due 2023 is payable semiannually on April 6 and October 6 of each year, commencing on October 6, 2020.  The Senior Notes due 2025 issued in June 2020 constitute a further issuance of the Senior Notes due 2025 originally issued in April 2020.  The $650 million in aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes due 2025 is treated as a single class of debt securities.  Interest on the Senior Notes due 2025 is payable semiannually on April 9 and October 9 of each year, commencing on October 9, 2020.  Interest on the Senior Notes due 2030 is payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 of each year, commencing on December 15, 2020.  Proceeds received from the public offerings of senior unsecured notes in June and April of 2020 were $1,008 million exclusive of accrued interest received, and $993 million, respectively, net of underwriters’ discounts or premiums and commissions, as well as debt issuance costs. Term Loan Facility In March 2020, we entered into a $1 billion 364-day delayed draw term loan agreement (the Facility) and borrowed $1 billion under the Facility shortly thereafter.  In November 2020, we repaid $500 million of borrowings outstanding under the Facility, and the Facility was amended to extend the maturity date of the remaining $500 million to November 20, 2023.  In September 2021, we repaid the outstanding borrowings of $500 million. 54 Availability of Debt Financing We have an A3 credit rating, with a stable outlook, from Moody’s Investors Service and a BBB+ credit rating, with a stable outlook, from Standard & Poor’s.  In the fourth quarter of 2021, both rating agencies updated their outlooks on our credit ratings from negative to stable.  These investment grade ratings have served to lower our borrowing costs and facilitate access to a variety of lenders.  We do not have any ratings triggers on any of our corporate debt that would cause an automatic default, and thereby impact our access to liquidity, in the event of a rating downgrade by one or both rating agencies.  Failure to maintain investment grade ratings could prohibit us from accessing the commercial paper market, although we would expect to be able to access funds under our liquidity facilities mentioned above. Phillips 66 Partners’ Debt and Equity Financings In 2013, we formed Phillips 66 Partners, a publicly traded MLP, which owns and operates primarily fee-based midstream assets.  At December 31, 2021, we owned 170 million Phillips 66 Partners common units, representing a 74% limited partner interest, while the public owned a 26% limited partner interest and 13.5 million perpetual convertible preferred units.  We consolidate Phillips 66 Partners as a variable interest entity for financial reporting purposes.   As a result of this consolidation, the public common and preferred unitholders’ interests in Phillips 66 Partners are reflected as noncontrolling interests of $2,169 million in our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2021. During the three years ended December 31, 2021, Phillips 66 Partners raised proceeds, primarily used for its capital spending and investments, from the following third-party debt and equity offerings: • In April 2021, Phillips 66 Partners entered into a $450 million term loan agreement and borrowed the full amount.  Proceeds from this term loan were primarily used to repay the outstanding borrowings under its $750 million revolving credit facility. • In September 2019, Phillips 66 Partners received net proceeds of $892 million from the issuance of $300 million of 2.450% Senior Notes due December 2024 and $600 million of 3.150% Senior Notes due December 2029. • In March 2019, Phillips 66 Partners entered into a senior unsecured term loan facility with a borrowing capacity of $400 million due March 20, 2020.  Phillips 66 Partners borrowed an aggregate amount of $400 million under the facility during the first half of 2019, which was repaid in full in September 2019. • Phillips 66 Partners has authorized an aggregate of $750 million under three $250 million continuous offerings of common units, or at-the-market (ATM) programs.  Phillips 66 Partners completed the first two programs in June 2018 and December 2019, respectively.  For the three years ended December 31, 2021, net proceeds of $175 million have been received under these programs. See Note 27—Phillips 66 Partners LP, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding Phillips 66 Partners. 55 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Lease Residual Value Guarantees Under the operating lease agreement for our headquarters facility in Houston, Texas, we have the option, at the end of the lease term in September 2025, to request to renew the lease, purchase the facility or assist the lessor in marketing it for resale.  We have a residual value guarantee associated with the operating lease agreement with a maximum potential future exposure of $514 million at December 31, 2021.  We also have residual value guarantees associated with railcar and airplane leases with maximum potential future exposures totaling $221 million.  These leases have remaining terms of up to ten years. Dakota Access, LLC (Dakota Access) and Energy Transfer Crude Oil Company, LLC (ETCO) In 2020, the trial court presiding over litigation regarding the Dakota Access Pipeline ordered the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) relating to an easement under Lake Oahe in North Dakota and later vacated the easement.  Although the easement has been vacated, the USACE has indicated that it will not take action to stop pipeline operations while it proceeds with the EIS, which is expected to be completed in the second half of 2022.  In May 2021, the court denied a request for an injunction to shut down the pipeline while the EIS is being prepared and, in June 2021, dismissed the litigation.  It is possible that the litigation could be reopened or new litigation challenging the EIS, once completed, could be filed.  In September 2021, Dakota Access filed a writ of certiorari, requesting the U.S. Supreme Court to review the lower court’s judgment that ordered the EIS and vacated the easement. In March 2019, a wholly owned subsidiary of Dakota Access closed an offering of $2.5 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes consisting of: • $650 million aggregate principal amount of 3.625% Senior Notes due 2022. • $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 3.900% Senior Notes due 2024. • $850 million aggregate principal amount of 4.625% Senior Notes due 2029. Dakota Access and ETCO have guaranteed repayment of the notes.  In addition, Phillips 66 Partners and its co-venturers in Dakota Access provided a Contingent Equity Contribution Undertaking (CECU) in conjunction with the notes offering.  Under the CECU, the co-venturers may be severally required to make proportionate equity contributions to Dakota Access if there is an unfavorable final judgment in the above mentioned ongoing litigation.  Contributions may be required if Dakota Access determines that the issues included in any such final judgment cannot be remediated and Dakota Access has or is projected to have insufficient funds to satisfy repayment of the notes.  If Dakota Access undertakes remediation to cure issues raised in a final judgment, contributions may be required if any series of the notes become due, whether by acceleration or at maturity, during such time, to the extent Dakota Access has or is projected to have insufficient funds to pay such amounts.  At December 31, 2021, Phillips 66 Partners’ share of the maximum potential equity contributions under the CECU was approximately $631 million. If the pipeline is required to cease operations, and should Dakota Access and ETCO not have sufficient funds to pay ongoing expenses, Phillips 66 Partners also could be required to support its share of the ongoing expenses, including scheduled interest payments on the notes of approximately $25 million annually, in addition to the potential obligations under the CECU. See Note 13—Guarantees, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information on our guarantees. 56 Capital Requirements Capital Expenditures and Investments For information about our capital expenditures and investments, see the “Capital Spending” section below. Debt Financing Our debt balance at December 31, 2021, was $14.4 billion and our total debt-to-capital ratio was 40%.  In 2021, we paid down $1.5 billion in debt and will continue to prioritize debt reduction in 2022.  As our operating cash flows improve further, we expect to reduce our debt to pre-COVID-19 pandemic levels over the next couple of years. See Note 12—Debt, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for our annual debt maturities over the next five years and more information on debt repayments. Joint Venture Loans During 2020 and 2021, we and our co-venturer provided member loans to WRB.  At December 31, 2021, our share of the outstanding member loan balance, including accrued interest, was $595 million.  The need for additional loans to WRB in 2022, as well as WRB’s repayment schedule, will depend on market conditions. Dividends On February 9, 2022, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.92 per common share, payable March 1, 2022, to holders of record at the close of business on February 22, 2022.  We expect that our Board of Directors will continue to declare a competitive and growing dividend in 2022. Share Repurchases Since July 2012, our board of directors has authorized an aggregate of $15 billion of repurchases of our outstanding common stock.  The authorizations do not have expiration dates.  The share repurchases are expected to be funded primarily through available cash.  We are not obligated to repurchase any shares of common stock pursuant to these authorizations and may commence, suspend or terminate repurchases at any time.  Since the inception of our share repurchase program in 2012, we have repurchased 159 million shares at an aggregate cost of $12.5 billion.  Shares of stock repurchased are held as treasury shares.  We suspended our share repurchase program in March 2020 to preserve liquidity.  As operating cash flows improve further, we will prioritize shareholder returns and debt repayment. Pending Merger with Phillips 66 Partners On October 26, 2021, we entered into a definitive merger agreement with Phillips 66 Partners to acquire all of the limited partner interests in Phillips 66 Partners not already owned by us on the closing date of the transaction.  The agreement provides for an all-stock transaction in which each outstanding Phillips 66 Partners common unitholder would receive 0.50 shares of Phillips 66 common stock for each Phillips 66 Partners common unit.  Phillips 66 Partners’ perpetual convertible preferred units would be converted into common units at a premium to the original issuance price prior to exchange for Phillips 66 common stock.   This merger is expected to close in March 2022, subject to customary closing conditions. Based on the closing market prices of Phillips 66 common stock and Phillips 66 Partners common units on December 31, 2021, we would issue approximately 44 million shares of our common stock with a value of approximately $3.2 billion on the closing date of this transaction.  The number of shares of common stock we will issue and the value of those shares are subject to change until the merger is closed. See Note 27—Phillips 66 Partners LP, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information on the pending merger. 57 Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations primarily consist of purchase obligations, outstanding debt principal and interest obligations, operating and finance lease obligations, and asset retirement and environmental obligations. Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations represent agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable, legally binding and specify all significant terms.  We expect these purchase obligations will be fulfilled with operating cash flows in the period when due.  As of December 31, 2021, our purchase obligations totaled $113.9 billion, with $43.0 billion due within one year. The majority of our purchase obligations are market-based contracts, including exchanges and futures, for the purchase of products such as crude oil and raw NGL.  The products are used to supply our refineries and fractionators and optimize our supply chain.  At December 31, 2021, product purchase commitments with third parties and related parties were $44.8 billion and $51.3 billion, respectively.  The remaining purchase obligations mainly represent agreements to access and utilize the capacity of third-party equipment and facilities, including pipelines and product terminals, to transport, process, treat, and store products, and our net share of purchase commitments for materials and services for jointly owned facilities where we are the operator. Debt Principal and Interest Obligations As of December 31, 2021, our aggregate principal amount of outstanding debt was $14.3 billion, with $1.5 billion due within one year.  Our obligations for interest on the debt totaled $7.5 billion, with $513 million due within one year.  See Note 12—Debt, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding our outstanding debt principal and interest obligations. Finance and Operating Lease Obligations See Note 18—Leases, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for information regarding our lease obligations and timing of our expected lease payments. Asset Retirement and Environmental Obligations See Note 10—Asset Retirement Obligations and Accrued Environmental Costs, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for information regarding asset retirement and environmental obligations. 58 Capital Spending Our capital expenditures and investments represent consolidated capital spending.  Our adjusted capital spending is a non-GAAP financial measure that demonstrates our net share of capital spending, and reflects an adjustment for the portion of our consolidated capital spending funded by certain joint venture partners. * Included in the Midstream segment. ** Our share of joint venture’s capital spending. Midstream Capital spending in our Midstream segment was $4.8 billion for the three-year period ended December 31, 2021, including: • Continued development and expansion of Gulf Coast fractionation capacity at our Sweeny Hub.  We completed two NGL fractionators (Sweeny Fracs 2 and 3) which commenced operations in 2020.  In 2021, we resumed the construction of Sweeny Frac 4. • Contributions by Phillips 66 Partners to fund the Gray Oak Pipeline project and South Texas Gateway Terminal development activities. • Completion of construction activities on Phillips 66 Partners’ C2G Pipeline, a new 16 inch ethane pipeline that connects Phillips 66 Partners’ Clemens Caverns storage facility to petrochemical facilities in Gregory, Texas, near Corpus Christi. • Investments in NOVONIX and a renewable feedstock processing plant. • Construction of Phillips 66 Partners’ Sweeny to Pasadena refined petroleum product pipeline. • Construction activities to increase storage and export capacity at our Beaumont Terminal. • Contributions to Dakota Access by Phillips 66 Partners for a pipeline optimization project. • Construction of Phillips 66 Partners’ new isomerization unit at the Lake Charles Refinery. 59 • Contributions to Bayou Bridge Pipeline, LLC, a Phillips 66 Partners’ 40 percent-owned joint venture, for the construction of a pipeline from Nederland, Texas, to Lake Charles, Louisiana, and a pipeline segment from Lake Charles to St. James, Louisiana. • Spending associated with other return, reliability, and maintenance projects in our Transportation and NGL businesses. During the three-year period ended December 31, 2021, DCP Midstream’s self-funded capital expenditures and investments were $1.3 billion on a 100% basis.  Capital spending during this period was primarily for expansion projects and maintenance capital expenditures for existing assets.  Expansion projects included construction of the Latham II offload facilities, the Cheyenne Connector, and the O’Connor 2 plant, as well as investments in the Sand Hills, Southern Hills and Gulf Coast Express pipeline joint ventures. Chemicals During the three-year period ended December 31, 2021, CPChem had a self-funded capital program that totaled $2.1 billion on a 100% basis.  Capital spending was primarily for the development of petrochemical projects on the U.S. Gulf Coast and in the Middle East, as well as sustaining, debottlenecking and optimization projects on existing assets. Refining Capital spending for the Refining segment during the three-year period ended December 31, 2021, was $2.6 billion, primarily for refinery upgrade projects to enhance the yield of high-value products, renewable diesel projects, improvements to the operating integrity of key processing units, and safety-related projects. Key projects completed during the three-year period included: • Installation of facilities to improve product value at our Ponca City Refinery and facilities to provide flexibility to produce renewable diesel at our San Francisco Refinery. • Installation of facilities to improve clean product yield at the Ponca City and Lake Charles refineries, as well as the jointly owned Borger Refinery. • Installation of facilities to improve product value at the Sweeny, Humber and Los Angeles refineries. • Installation of facilities to improve processing of advantaged crude at the Humber refinery. • Installation of facilities to comply with the EPA Tier 3 gasoline regulations at the Ferndale Refinery. Marketing and Specialties Capital spending for the M&S segment during the three-year period ended December 31, 2021, was primarily for investment in retail marketing joint ventures in the U.S. West Coast and Central regions; the continued acquisition, development and enhancement of retail sites in Europe; and acquisition of a commercial fleet fueling business in California, which will provide further placement opportunities for renewable diesel production to end-use customers. Corporate and Other Capital spending for Corporate and Other during the three-year period ended December 31, 2021, was primarily for information technology and facilities. 60 2022 Budget Our 2022 capital budget is $1.9 billion, including $992 million for sustaining capital and $916 million for growth capital.  Approximately 45% of growth capital supports lower-carbon opportunities.  Our projected $1.9 billion capital budget excludes our portion of planned capital spending by our major joint ventures CPChem, WRB and DCP Midstream totaling $1.1 billion. The Midstream capital budget of $703 million includes a growth capital budget of $426 million which will be directed toward completing construction of Sweeny Frac 4, repayment of Phillips 66 Partners’ 25% share of Dakota Access’ debt due in 2022, and investment opportunities to advance our lower-carbon efforts.  The Midstream capital budget also includes $277 million for sustaining projects.  In Refining, the total capital budget of $896 million consists of $488 million for reliability, safety and environmental projects and $408 million of growth capital primarily for the reconfiguration of our San Francisco Refinery as part of the Rodeo Renewed project.  The M&S capital budget of $144 million reflects the continued development and enhancement of our retail network, including energy transition opportunities.  The Corporate and Other capital budget is $165 million primarily for digital transformation projects. Contingencies A number of lawsuits involving a variety of claims that arose in the ordinary course of business have been filed against us or are subject to indemnifications provided by us.  We also may be required to remove or mitigate the effects on the environment of the placement, storage, disposal or release of certain chemical, mineral and petroleum substances at various active and inactive sites.  We regularly assess the need for financial recognition or disclosure of these contingencies.  In the case of all known contingencies (other than those related to income taxes), we accrue a liability when the loss is probable and the amount is reasonably estimable.  If a range of amounts can be reasonably estimated and no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount, then the minimum of the range is accrued.  We do not reduce these liabilities for potential insurance or third-party recoveries.  If applicable, we accrue receivables for probable insurance or other third-party recoveries.  In the case of income tax-related contingencies, we use a cumulative probability-weighted loss accrual in cases where sustaining a tax position is uncertain. Based on currently available information, we believe it is remote that future costs related to known contingent liability exposures will exceed current accruals by an amount that would have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements.  As we learn new facts concerning contingencies, we reassess our position both with respect to accrued liabilities and other potential exposures.  Estimates particularly sensitive to future changes include contingent liabilities recorded for environmental remediation, tax and legal matters.  Estimated future environmental remediation costs are subject to change due to such factors as the uncertain magnitude of cleanup costs, the unknown time and extent of such remedial actions that may be required, and the determination of our liability in proportion to that of other potentially responsible parties.  Estimated future costs related to tax and legal matters are subject to change as events evolve and as additional information becomes available during the administrative and litigation processes. Legal and Tax Matters Our legal and tax matters are handled by our legal and tax organizations.  These organizations apply their knowledge, experience and professional judgment to the specific characteristics of our cases and uncertain tax positions.  We employ a litigation management process to manage and monitor the legal proceedings.  Our process facilitates the early evaluation and quantification of potential exposures in individual cases and enables the tracking of those cases that have been scheduled for trial and/or mediation.  Based on professional judgment and experience in using these litigation management tools and available information about current developments in all our cases, our legal organization regularly assesses the adequacy of current accruals and determines if adjustment of existing accruals, or establishment of new accruals, is required.  In the case of income tax-related contingencies, we monitor tax legislation and court decisions, the status of tax audits and the statute of limitations within which a taxing authority can assert a liability.  See Note 21—Income Taxes, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information about income tax-related contingencies. 61 Environmental We are subject to numerous international, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations.  Among the most significant of these international and federal environmental laws and regulations are the: • U.S. Federal Clean Air Act, which governs air emissions. • U.S. Federal Clean Water Act, which governs discharges into water bodies. • European Union Regulation for Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH), which governs production, marketing and use of chemicals. • U.S. Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), which imposes liability on generators, transporters and arrangers of hazardous substances at sites where hazardous substance releases have occurred or are threatening to occur. • U.S. Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), which governs the treatment, storage and disposal of solid waste. • U.S. Federal Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act (EPCRA), which requires facilities to report toxic chemical inventories to local emergency planning committees and response departments. • U.S. Federal Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (OPA90), under which owners and operators of onshore facilities and pipelines as well as owners and operators of vessels are liable for removal costs and damages that result from a discharge of crude oil into navigable waters of the United States. • European Union Trading Directive resulting in the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS), which uses a market-based mechanism to incentivize the reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, as well as the United Kingdom Emissions Trading Scheme (UK ETS), which replaced the EU ETS in the United Kingdom on January 1, 2021, but the United Kingdom had the obligation and retained the ability to enforce the EU ETS obligations until April 30, 2021. These laws and their implementing regulations set limits on emissions and, in the case of discharges to water, establish water quality limits.  They also, in most cases, require permits in association with new or modified operations.  These permits can require an applicant to collect substantial information in connection with the application process, which can be expensive and time consuming.  In addition, there can be delays associated with notice and comment periods and the agency’s processing of the application.  Many of the delays associated with the permitting process are beyond the control of the applicant. Other foreign countries and many states where we operate also have, or are developing, similar environmental laws and regulations governing these same types of activities.  While similar, in some cases these regulations may impose additional, or more stringent, requirements that can add to the cost and difficulty of developing infrastructure and marketing and transporting products across state and international borders.  For example, in California the South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD) approved amendments to the Regional Clean Air Incentives Market (RECLAIM) that became effective in 2016, which require a phased reduction of nitrogen oxide emissions through 2022, affecting refineries in the Los Angeles metropolitan area.  In 2017, SCAQMD required additional nitrogen dioxide emissions reductions through 2025 and, on November 5, 2021, promulgated new regulations to replace the RECLAIM program with a traditional command and control regulatory regime. The ultimate financial impact arising from environmental laws and regulations is neither clearly known nor easily determinable as new standards, such as air emission standards, water quality standards and stricter fuel regulations, continue to evolve.  However, environmental laws and regulations, including those that may arise to address concerns about global climate change, are expected to continue to have an increasing impact on our operations in the United States and in other countries in which we operate.  Notable areas of potential impacts include air emissions compliance and remediation obligations in the United States. 62 An example of this in the fuels area is the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (EISA).  It requires fuel producers and importers to provide additional renewable fuels for transportation motor fuels and stipulates a mix of various types.  RINs form the mechanism used by the EPA to record compliance with the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS).  If an obligated party has more RINs than it needs to meet its obligation, it may sell or trade the extra RINs, or instead choose to “bank” them for use the following year.  We have met the requirements to date while establishing implementation, operating and capital strategies, along with advanced technology development, to address projected future renewable volume obligation (RVO) requirements.  On December 7, 2021, the EPA proposed RVO for the 2021 and 2022 compliance years, which essentially holds the 2021 RVO to actual volumes of biofuel consumption, while increasing the volumes in 2022. The EPA also re-proposed the compliance year 2020 RVO, also holding them to actual volumes.  It is uncertain how various future RVO requirements contained in EISA, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, may be implemented and what their full impact may be on our operations.  Additionally, we may experience a decrease in demand for refined petroleum products due to the regulatory program as currently promulgated.  This program continues to be the subject of possible Congressional review and re-promulgation in revised form, and the EPA’s final regulations establishing RVO requirements have been and continue to be subject to legal challenge, further creating uncertainty regarding RVO requirements.  Compliance with the regulation has been further complicated as the market for RINs has been the subject of fraudulent third-party activity, and it is possible that some RINs that we have purchased may be determined to be invalid.  Should that occur, we could incur costs to replace those fraudulent RINs.  Although the cost for replacing any fraudulently marketed RINs is not reasonably estimable at this time, we would not expect such costs to have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition. We are required to purchase RINs in the open market to satisfy the portion of our obligation under the RFS that is not fulfilled by blending renewable fuels into the motor fuels we produce.  For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, we incurred expenses of $441 million, $342 million and $111 million, respectively, associated with our obligation to purchase RINs in the open market to comply with the RFS for our wholly owned refineries.  These expenses are included in the “Purchased crude oil and products” line item on our consolidated statement of operations.  Our jointly owned refineries also incurred expenses associated with the purchase of RINs in the open market, of which our share was $351 million, $133 million and $74 million for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.  These expenses are included in the “Equity in earnings of affiliates” line item on our consolidated statement of operations.  The amount of these expenses and fluctuations between periods is primarily driven by the market price of RINs, refinery production, blending activities, and RVO requirements. We also are subject to certain laws and regulations relating to environmental remediation obligations associated with current and past operations.  Such laws and regulations include CERCLA and RCRA and their state equivalents.  Remediation obligations include cleanup responsibility arising from petroleum releases from underground storage tanks located at numerous previously and currently owned and/or operated petroleum-marketing outlets throughout the United States.  Federal and state laws require contamination caused by such underground storage tank releases be assessed and remediated to meet applicable standards.  In addition to other cleanup standards, many states have adopted cleanup criteria for methyl tertiary-butyl ether (MTBE) for both soil and groundwater and both the EPA and many states may adopt cleanup standards for per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS), which may have been a constituent in certain firefighting foams used or stored at or near some of our facilities. At RCRA-permitted facilities, we are required to assess environmental conditions.  If conditions warrant, we may be required to remediate contamination caused by prior operations.  In contrast to CERCLA, which is often referred to as “Superfund,” the cost of corrective action activities under RCRA corrective action programs typically is borne solely by us.  We anticipate increased expenditures for RCRA remediation activities may be required, but such annual expenditures for the near term are not expected to vary significantly from the range of such expenditures we have experienced over the past few years.  Longer-term expenditures are subject to considerable uncertainty and may fluctuate significantly. We occasionally receive requests for information or notices of potential liability from the EPA and state environmental agencies alleging that we are a potentially responsible party under CERCLA or an equivalent state statute.  On occasion, we also have been made a party to cost recovery litigation by those agencies or by private parties.  These requests, notices and lawsuits assert potential liability for remediation costs at various sites that typically are not owned by us, but allegedly contain wastes attributable to our past operations.  As of December 31, 2020, we reported that we had been notified of potential liability under CERCLA and comparable state laws at 25 sites within the United States.  During 2021, there were no new sites for which we received notice of potential liability nor were any existing sites deemed resolved and closed, leaving 25 unresolved sites with potential liability at December 31, 2021. 63 For the majority of Superfund sites, our potential liability will be less than the total site remediation costs because the percentage of waste attributable to us, versus that attributable to all other potentially responsible parties, is relatively low.  Although liability of those potentially responsible is generally joint and several for federal sites and frequently so for state sites, other potentially responsible parties at sites where we are a party typically have had the financial strength to meet their obligations, and where they have not, or where potentially responsible parties could not be located, our share of liability has not increased materially.  Many of the sites for which we are potentially responsible are still under investigation by the EPA or the state agencies concerned.  Prior to actual cleanup, those potentially responsible normally assess site conditions, apportion responsibility and determine the appropriate remediation.  In some instances, we may have no liability or attain a settlement of liability.  Actual cleanup costs generally occur after the parties obtain the EPA or equivalent state agency approval of a remediation plan.  There are relatively few sites where we are a major participant, and given the timing and amounts of anticipated expenditures, neither the cost of remediation at those sites nor such costs at all CERCLA sites, in the aggregate, is expected to have a material adverse effect on our competitive or financial condition. We incur costs related to the prevention, control, abatement or elimination of environmental pollution.  Expensed environmental costs were $726 million in 2021 and are expected to be approximately $725 million and $775 million in 2022 and 2023, respectively.  Capitalized environmental costs were $96 million in 2021 and are expected to be approximately $115 million and $165 million, in 2022 and 2023, respectively.  These amounts do not include capital expenditures made for other purposes that have an indirect benefit on environmental compliance. Accrued liabilities for remediation activities are not reduced for potential recoveries from insurers or other third parties and are not discounted (except those assumed in a business combination, which we record on a discounted basis). Many of these liabilities result from CERCLA, RCRA and similar state laws that require us to undertake certain investigative and remedial activities at sites where we conduct, or once conducted, operations or at sites where our generated waste was disposed.  We also have accrued for a number of sites we identified that may require environmental remediation, but which are not currently the subject of CERCLA, RCRA or state enforcement activities.  If applicable, we accrue receivables for probable insurance or other third-party recoveries.  In the future, we may incur significant costs under both CERCLA and RCRA.  Remediation activities vary substantially in duration and cost from site to site, depending on the mix of unique site characteristics, evolving remediation technologies, diverse regulatory agencies and enforcement policies, and the presence or absence of potentially liable third parties.  Therefore, it is difficult to develop reasonable estimates of future site remediation costs. Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, and as with other companies engaged in similar businesses, environmental costs and liabilities are inherent concerns in certain of our operations and products, and there can be no assurance that those costs and liabilities will not be material.  However, we currently do not expect any material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position as a result of compliance with current environmental laws and regulations. Climate Change There has been a broad range of proposed or promulgated state, national and international laws focusing on GHG emissions reduction, including various regulations proposed or issued by the EPA.  These proposed or promulgated laws apply or could apply in states and/or countries where we have interests or may have interests in the future.  Laws regulating GHG emissions continue to evolve, and while it is not possible to accurately estimate either a timetable for implementation or our future compliance costs relating to implementation, such laws potentially could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition as a result of increasing costs of compliance, lengthening project implementation and agency reviews, or reducing demand for certain hydrocarbon products.  Examples of legislation or precursors for possible regulation that do or could affect our operations include: • EU ETS, which is part of the European Union’s policy to combat climate change and is a key tool for reducing industrial GHG emissions.  EU ETS impacts factories, power stations and other installations across all EU member states.  As a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union (BREXIT), those types of entities in the United Kingdom became subject to the UK ETS, rather than the EU ETS, after the EU ETS 2020 scheme year ended on April 30, 2021. 64 • California’s Senate Bill No. 32, which requires reduction of California's GHG emissions to 40% below the 1990 emission level by 2030, and Assembly Bill 398, which extends the California GHG emission cap and trade program through 2030.  Other GHG emissions programs in the western U.S. states have been enacted or are under consideration or development, including amendments to California's Low Carbon Fuel Standard, Oregon's Low Carbon Fuel Standard and Climate Protection Plan, and Washington's carbon reduction programs. • The U.S. Supreme Court decision in Massachusetts v. EPA , 549 U.S. 497, 127 S. Ct. 1438 (2007), confirming that the EPA has the authority to regulate carbon dioxide as an “air pollutant” under the Federal Clean Air Act. • The EPA’s announcement on March 29, 2010 (published as “Interpretation of Regulations that Determine Pollutants Covered by Clean Air Act Permitting Programs,” 75 Fed. Reg. 17004 (April 2, 2010)), and the EPA’s and U.S. Department of Transportation’s joint promulgation of a Final Rule on April 1, 2010, that triggers regulation of GHGs under the Clean Air Act.  These collectively may lead to more climate-based claims for damages, and may result in longer agency review time for development projects to determine the extent of potential climate change. • The EPA's 2015 Final Rule regulating GHG emissions from existing fossil fuel-fired electrical generating units under the Federal Clean Air Act, commonly referred to as the Clean Power Plan.  The EPA commenced rulemaking in 2017 to rescind the Clean Power Plan and, in August 2018, the EPA proposed the Affordable Clean Energy (ACE) rule as its replacement.  On January 19, 2021, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia invalidated the ACE rule and remanded the matter to the EPA, essentially restarting this rulemaking process. • Carbon taxes in certain jurisdictions. • GHG emission cap and trade programs in certain jurisdictions. In the EU, the first phase of the EU ETS completed at the end of 2007.  Phase II was undertaken from 2008 through 2012, and Phase III ran from 2013 through to 2020.  Phase IV runs from January 1, 2021 through 2030 and sectors covered under the ETS must reduce their GHG emissions by 43% compared to 2005 levels.  Since January 1, 2021, the United Kingdom is no longer part of the EU ETS and, instead, has been under the UK ETS.  However, the United Kingdom had the obligation and retained the ability to enforce the EU ETS obligations until April 30, 2021.  Phillips 66 has assets that are subject to the EU ETS and assets that are subject to the UK ETS. From November 30 to December 12, 2015, more than 190 countries, including the United States, participated in the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris, France.  The conference culminated in what is known as the “Paris Agreement,” which, upon certain conditions being met, entered into force on November 4, 2016.  The Paris Agreement establishes a commitment by signatory parties to pursue domestic GHG emission reductions.  In 2017, President Trump announced his intention to withdraw the United States from the Paris Agreement and that withdrawal became effective on November 4, 2020.  On January 20, 2021, President Biden signed the “Acceptance on Behalf of the United States of America,” which allows the United States to rejoin the Paris Agreement.  The United States officially rejoined the Paris Agreement in February 2021, which could lead to additional GHG emission reduction requirements for sources in the United States. In the United States, some additional form of regulation is likely to be forthcoming at the state or federal levels with respect to GHG emissions.  Such regulation could take any of several forms that may result in additional financial burden in the form of taxes, the restriction of output, investments of capital to maintain compliance with laws and regulations, or required acquisition or trading of emission allowances. Compliance with changes in laws and regulations that create a GHG emission trading program, GHG reduction requirements or carbon taxes could significantly increase our costs, reduce demand for fossil energy derived products, impact the cost and availability of capital and increase our exposure to litigation.  Such laws and regulations could also increase demand for less carbon intensive energy sources. 65 An example of one such program is California’s cap and trade program, which was promulgated pursuant to the State’s Global Warming Solutions Act.  The program had been limited to certain stationary sources, which include our refineries in California, but beginning in January 2015 was expanded to include emissions from transportation fuels distributed in California.  Inclusion of transportation fuels in California’s cap and trade program as currently promulgated has increased our cap and trade program compliance costs.  The ultimate impact on our financial performance, either positive or negative, from this and similar programs, will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: • Whether and to what extent legislation or regulation is enacted. • The nature of the legislation or regulation, such as a cap and trade system or a tax on emissions. • The GHG reductions required. • The price and availability of offsets. • The demand for, and amount and allocation of allowances. • Technological and scientific developments leading to new products or services. • Any potential significant physical effects of climate change, such as increased severe weather events, changes in sea levels and changes in temperature. • Whether, and the extent to which, increased compliance costs are ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services. We consider and take into account anticipated future GHG emissions in designing and developing major facilities and projects, and implement energy efficiency initiatives to reduce GHG emissions.  Data on our GHG emissions, legal requirements regulating such emissions, and the possible physical effects of climate change on our coastal assets are incorporated into our planning, investment, and risk management decision-making.  We are working to continuously improve operational and energy efficiency through resource and energy conservation throughout our operations. In September 2021, we announced a set of company-wide GHG emission intensity reduction targets that we consider to be impactful, attainable and measurable.  By 2030, we expect to reduce GHG emission intensity by 30% for Scope 1 and 2 emissions from our operations and by 15% for Scope 3 emissions from our energy products, below 2019 levels. In addition to the disclosures above, we have issued our 2021 Sustainability Report that is accessible on our website and provides more detailed information on our Environmental, Social and Corporate Governance (ESG) initiatives, including detailed information on environmental metrics. 66 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to select appropriate accounting policies and to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.  See Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for descriptions of our major accounting policies.  Some of these accounting policies involve judgments and uncertainties to such an extent that there is a reasonable likelihood that materially different amounts would have been reported under different conditions, or if different assumptions had been used.  The following discussion of critical accounting estimates, along with the discussion of contingencies in this report, addresses all important accounting areas where the nature of accounting estimates or assumptions could be material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or the susceptibility of such matters to change. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Equity Method Investments Long-lived assets used in operations are assessed for impairment whenever changes in facts and circumstances indicate a possible significant deterioration in future expected cash flows.  If the sum of the undiscounted expected future before-tax cash flows of an asset group is less than the carrying value, including applicable liabilities, the carrying value is written down to estimated fair value.  Individual assets are grouped for impairment purposes based on a judgmental assessment of the lowest level for which there are identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets.  Because there usually is a lack of quoted market prices for long-lived assets, the fair value of impaired assets is typically determined using one or more of the following methods: the present value of expected future cash flows using discount rates and other assumptions believed to be consistent with those used by principal market participants; a market multiple for similar assets; historical market transactions including similar assets, adjusted using principal market participant assumptions when necessary; or replacement cost adjusted for physical deterioration and economic obsolescence.  The expected future cash flows used for impairment reviews and related fair value calculations are based on judgmental assessments, including future volumes, commodity prices, operating costs, margins, discount rates and capital project decisions, considering all available information at the date of review. Investments in nonconsolidated entities accounted for under the equity method are assessed for impairment when there are indicators of a loss in value, such as a lack of sustained earnings capacity or a current fair value less than the investment’s carrying amount.  When it is determined that an indicated impairment is other than temporary, a charge is recognized for the difference between the investment’s carrying value and its estimated fair value.  When determining whether a decline in value is other than temporary, management considers factors such as the duration and extent of the decline, the investee’s financial condition and near-term prospects, and our ability and intention to retain our investment for a period that allows for recovery.  When quoted market prices are not available, the fair value is usually based on the present value of expected future cash flows using discount rates and other assumptions believed to be consistent with those used by principal market participants and observed market earnings multiples of comparable companies, if appropriate.  Different assumptions could affect the timing and the amount of an impairment of an investment in any period. See Note 9—Impairments, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for information about significant impairments recorded in 2021, 2020 and 2019. Asset Retirement Obligations Under various contracts, permits and regulations, we have legal obligations to remove tangible long-lived assets and restore the land at the end of operations at certain operational sites.  Estimating the timing and cost of future asset removals is difficult.  Our recognized asset retirement obligations primarily involve asbestos abatement at our refineries; decommissioning, removal or dismantlement of certain assets at refineries that have or will be shut down; and dismantlement or removal of assets at certain leased international marketing sites.  Many of these removal obligations are many years, or decades, in the future, and the contracts and regulations often have vague descriptions of what removal practices and criteria must be met when the removal event actually occurs.  Asset removal technologies and costs, regulatory and other compliance considerations, expenditure timing, and other inputs into valuation of the obligation, including discount and inflation rates, are also subject to change. 67 Environmental Costs In addition to asset retirement obligations discussed above, we have certain obligations to complete environmental-related projects.  These projects are primarily related to cleanup at domestic refineries, underground storage sites and nonoperated sites.  Future environmental remediation costs are difficult to estimate because they are subject to change due to such factors as the uncertain magnitude of cleanup costs, timing and extent of such remedial actions that may be required, and the determination of our liability in proportion to that of other responsible parties. Intangible Assets and Goodwill At December 31, 2021, we had $715 million of intangible assets that we have determined to have indefinite useful lives, and therefore do not amortize.  The judgmental determination that an intangible asset has an indefinite useful life is continuously evaluated.  If, due to changes in facts and circumstances, management determines these intangible assets have finite useful lives, amortization will commence at that time on a prospective basis.  As long as these intangible assets are determined to have indefinite lives, they will be subject to at least annual impairment tests that require management’s judgment of their estimated fair value. At December 31, 2021, we had $1.5 billion of goodwill primarily related to past business combinations.  Goodwill is not amortized.  Instead, goodwill is subject to at least annual tests for impairment at a reporting unit level.  A reporting unit is an operating segment or a component that is one level below an operating segment, and it is determined primarily based on the manner in which the business is managed. We perform our annual goodwill impairment test using a qualitative assessment and a quantitative assessment, if one is deemed necessary.  As part of our qualitative assessment, we evaluate relevant events and circumstances that could affect the fair value of our reporting units, including macroeconomic conditions, overall industry and market considerations and regulatory changes, as well as company-specific market metrics, performance and events.  The evaluation of company-specific events and circumstances includes evaluating changes in our stock price and cost of capital, actual and forecasted financial performance, as well as the effect of significant asset dispositions.  If our qualitative assessment indicates it is likely the fair value of a reporting unit has declined below its carrying value (including goodwill), a quantitative assessment is performed. When a quantitative assessment is performed, management applies judgment in determining the estimated fair values of the reporting units because quoted market prices for our reporting units are not available.  Management uses available information to make this fair value determination, including estimated future cash flows, cost of capital, observed market earnings multiples of comparable companies, our common stock price and associated total company market capitalization. We completed our annual qualitative assessment of goodwill as of October 1, 2021, and concluded that the fair values of our reporting units exceeded their respective carrying values (including goodwill).  A decline in the estimated fair value of one or more of our reporting units in the future could result in an impairment.  As such, we continue to monitor for indicators of impairment until our next annual impairment assessment is performed. See Note 9—Impairments, and Note 16—Fair Value Measurements, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding the goodwill impairment we recorded in the first quarter of 2020. 68 Tax Assets and Liabilities Our operations are subject to various taxes, including federal, state and foreign income taxes, property taxes, and transactional taxes such as excise, sales and use, value-added and payroll taxes.  We record tax liabilities based on our assessment of existing tax laws and regulations.  The recording of tax liabilities requires significant judgment and estimates.  We recognize the financial statement effects of an income tax position when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination by a taxing authority.  A contingent liability related to a transactional tax claim is recorded if the loss is both probable and reasonably estimable.  Actual incurred tax liabilities can vary from our estimates for a variety of reasons, including different interpretations of tax laws and regulations and different assessments of the amount of tax due. In determining our income tax expense (benefit), we assess the likelihood our deferred tax assets will be recovered through future taxable income.  Valuation allowances reduce deferred tax assets to an amount that will, more likely than not, be realized.  Judgment is required in estimating the amount of valuation allowance, if any, that should be recorded against our deferred tax assets.  Based on our historical taxable income, our expectations for the future, and available tax-planning strategies, we expect our net deferred tax assets will more likely than not be realized as offsets to reversing deferred tax liabilities and as reductions to future taxable income.  If our actual results of operations differ from such estimates or our estimates of future taxable income change, the valuation allowance may need to be revised. New tax laws and regulations, as well as changes to existing tax laws and regulations, are continuously being proposed or promulgated. The implementation of future legislative and regulatory tax initiatives could result in increased income tax liabilities that cannot be predicted at this time. Projected Benefit Obligations Calculation of the projected benefit obligations for our defined benefit pension and postretirement plans impacts the obligations on the balance sheet and the amount of benefit expense in the statement of operations.  The actuarial calculation of projected benefit obligations and company contribution requirements involves judgment about uncertain future events, including estimated retirement dates, salary levels at retirement, mortality rates, lump-sum election rates, rates of return on plan assets, future interest rates, future health care cost-trend rates, and rates of utilization of health care services by retirees.  We engage outside actuarial firms to assist in the calculation of these projected benefit obligations and company contribution requirements due to the specialized nature of these calculations.  As financial accounting rules and the pension plan funding regulations promulgated by governmental agencies have different objectives and requirements, the actuarial methods and assumptions for the two purposes differ in certain important respects.  Ultimately, we will be required to fund all promised benefits under pension and postretirement benefit plans not funded by plan assets or investment returns, but the judgmental assumptions used in the actuarial calculations significantly affect periodic financial statements and funding patterns over time.  Benefit expense is particularly sensitive to the discount rate and return on plan assets assumptions.  A one percentage-point decrease in the discount rate assumption used for the plan obligation would increase annual benefit expense by an estimated $60 million, while a one percentage-point decrease in the return on plan assets assumption would increase annual benefit expense by an estimated $40 million.  In determining the discount rate, we use yields on high-quality fixed income investments with payments matched to the estimated distributions of benefits from our plans. The expected weighted-average long-term rate of return for worldwide pension plan assets was approximately 6% for both 2021 and 2020, while the actual weighted-average rate of return was 10% in 2021 and 12% in 2020.  For the past ten years, our actual weighted-average rate of return for worldwide pension plan assets was 10%. 69 GUARANTOR FINANCIAL INFORMATION At December 31, 2021, Phillips 66 had $10.3 billion of senior unsecured notes outstanding guaranteed by Phillips 66 Company, a direct, wholly owned operating subsidiary of Phillips 66.  Phillips 66 conducts substantially all of its operations through subsidiaries, including Phillips 66 Company, and those subsidiaries generate substantially all of its operating income and cash flows.  The guarantees (1) are unsecured obligations of Phillips 66 Company, (2) rank equally with all of Phillips 66 Company’s other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness, and (3) are full and unconditional. Summarized financial information of Phillips 66 and Phillips 66 Company (the Obligor Group) is presented on a combined basis.  Intercompany transactions among the members of the Obligor Group have been eliminated.  The financial information of non-guarantor subsidiaries has been excluded from the summarized financial information.  Significant intercompany transactions and receivable/payable balances between the Obligor Group and non-guarantor subsidiaries are presented separately in the summarized financial information. The summarized results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2021, and the summarized financial position at December 31, 2021, of the Obligor Group on a combined basis were: 70 NON-GAAP RECONCILIATIONS Refining Our realized refining margins measure the difference between (a) sales and other operating revenues derived from the sale of petroleum products manufactured at our refineries and (b) costs of feedstocks, primarily crude oil, used to produce the petroleum products.  The realized refining margins are adjusted to include our proportional share of our joint venture refineries’ realized margins, as well as to exclude those items that are not representative of the underlying operating performance of a period, which we call “special items.”  The realized refining margins are converted to a per-barrel basis by dividing them by total refinery processed inputs (primarily crude oil) measured on a barrel basis, including our share of inputs processed by our joint venture refineries.  Our realized refining margin per barrel is intended to be comparable with industry refining margins, which are known as “crack spreads.”  As discussed in “Executive Overview and Business Environment—Business Environment,” industry crack spreads measure the difference between market prices for refined petroleum products and crude oil.  We believe realized refining margin per barrel calculated on a similar basis as industry crack spreads provides a useful measure of how well we performed relative to benchmark industry refining margins. The GAAP performance measure most directly comparable to realized refining margin per barrel is the Refining segment’s “income (loss) before income taxes per barrel.”  Realized refining margin per barrel excludes items that are typically included in a manufacturer’s gross margin, such as depreciation and operating expenses, and other items used to determine income (loss) before income taxes, such as general and administrative expenses.  It also includes our proportional share of joint venture refineries’ realized refining margins and excludes special items.  Because realized refining margin per barrel is calculated in this manner, and because realized refining margin per barrel may be defined differently by other companies in our industry, it has limitations as an analytical tool.  Following are reconciliations of income (loss) before income taxes to realized refining margins: 71 72 73 Marketing Our realized marketing fuel margins measure the difference between (a) sales and other operating revenues derived from the sale of fuels in our M&S segment and (b) costs of those fuels.  The realized marketing fuel margins are adjusted to exclude those items that are not representative of the underlying operating performance of a period, which we call “special items.”  The realized marketing fuel margins are converted to a per-barrel basis by dividing them by sales volumes measured on a barrel basis.  We believe realized marketing fuel margin per barrel demonstrates the value uplift our marketing operations provide by optimizing the placement and ultimate sale of our refineries’ fuel production. Within the M&S segment, the GAAP performance measure most directly comparable to realized marketing fuel margin per barrel is the marketing business’ “income before income taxes per barrel.”  Realized marketing fuel margin per barrel excludes items that are typically included in gross margin, such as depreciation and operating expenses, and other items used to determine income before income taxes, such as general and administrative expenses.  Because realized marketing fuel margin per barrel excludes these items, and because realized marketing fuel margin per barrel may be defined differently by other companies in our industry, it has limitations as an analytical tool.  Following are reconciliations of income before income taxes to realized marketing fuel margins: 74