********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as the value of an investment in our common stock.  These risk factors do not identify all risks that we face; our operations could also be affected by factors, events or uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we do not currently consider to present significant risks to our operations. Risks Related to Our Manufacturing and Operations Market conditions, including volatile commodity prices, margins and demand for refined petroleum, petrochemical and plastics products, impact our earnings, financial condition and cash flows. Similar to other companies in the industry in which we operate, our financial results are largely affected by the relationship, or margin, between the prices at which we sell refined petroleum, petrochemical and plastics products and the prices for crude oil and other feedstocks used in manufacturing these products.  Historically, margins have been volatile, and we expect they will continue to be volatile in the future. The cost of feedstocks and the prices at which we can ultimately sell our products depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including regional and global supply and demand, which are subject to, among other things, production levels, levels of refined petroleum product inventories, productivity and growth of economies, geopolitical risks, such as turmoil in the Middle East, Eastern Europe, and other producing regions, technology advancements and the pace of the energy transition, weather-related damage and disruptions due to other natural or human causes, consumer preferences and the use and availability of substitute products, and governmental regulation.  We do not produce crude oil and other feedstocks and must purchase all of the feedstocks we process.  The prices for crude oil and refined petroleum products can fluctuate based on global, regional and local market conditions, as well as by type and class of products, which can reduce margins and have a significant impact on our refining, wholesale marketing and retail operations, revenues, operating income and cash flows.  The ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to agree on and to maintain crude oil price and production controls and changes in trade flows from events such as the Russia-Ukraine war have also had, and are likely to continue to have, a significant impact on the market prices of crude oil and certain of our products. Also, crude oil supply contracts generally have market-based pricing provisions.  We normally purchase our refinery feedstocks weeks before manufacturing and selling the refined petroleum products.  We also purchase refined petroleum products produced by others for sale to our customers.  Changes in prices that occur between the time we purchase feedstocks or products and when we sell the refined petroleum products could have a significant effect on our financial results. The price of natural gas and crude oil also influences prices for the petrochemical and plastics products we produce and the feedstocks used to manufacture those products.  Our Chemicals segment uses feedstocks that are derivatively produced in the processing of natural gas and refining of crude oil, and those feedstock prices can fluctuate widely for a variety of reasons, including changes in worldwide energy prices and the supply and availability of the feedstocks.  Due to the highly competitive nature of most of the products sold by our Chemicals segment, market position cannot necessarily be protected by product differentiation or by passing on cost increases to customers.  As a result, price increases in raw materials may not correlate with changes in the prices at which petrochemical and plastics products are sold, thereby negatively affecting margins and the results of operations of our Chemicals segment. Sustained or prolonged declines in commodity prices and margins for our products may adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity, access to the capital markets, and our ability to fund our capital priorities, including share repurchases and dividends. 21 Market conditions, including volatile commodity prices and demand for crude oil, natural gas and NGL, impact the earnings, financial condition and cash flows of our Midstream business. Our Midstream business is affected by the price of and demand for crude oil, natural gas and NGL, which have historically been volatile.  The prices for crude oil, natural gas and NGL depend upon factors beyond our control, including global and local demand, production levels, imports and exports, seasonality and weather conditions, economic and political conditions domestically and internationally, and governmental regulations.  Decreases in energy prices can decrease drilling activity, production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new crude oil and natural gas reserves.  Sustained periods of low prices can also cause producers to significantly curtail or limit their oil and gas drilling operations, which could substantially delay the production and delivery of volumes of crude oil, natural gas and NGL. The volume of crude oil and refined petroleum products transported or stored in our pipelines and terminal facilities depends on the demand for and availability of crude oil and refined petroleum products in the areas serviced by our assets.  A period of sustained low demand or prices for crude oil could lead to a decline in drilling activity and production, which would lead to a decrease in the volumes of crude oil transported through our pipelines and terminal facilities, negatively affecting our earnings and cash flows.  Likewise, our earnings and cash flows would be negatively impacted by a period of sustained lower demand for refined petroleum products, which could lead to lower refinery utilization and result in a decrease in the volumes of refined petroleum product transported through our pipelines and terminal facilities. The natural gas gathered, processed, transported, sold and stored by us is delivered into pipelines for further delivery to end-users, including fractionation facilities.  Demand for these services may be substantially reduced due to lower rates of natural gas production as a result of declining commodity prices.  Commodity prices, including when ethane prices are low relative to natural gas prices, can also negatively impact throughput volumes of NGL transported, fractionated and stored.  Additionally, revenues and cash flows can increase or decrease as the price of natural gas and NGL fluctuates because of certain contractual arrangements whereby natural gas is purchased for an agreed percentage of proceeds from the sale of the residue gas and/or NGL resulting from its processing activities. In order to maintain or increase throughput levels on our natural gas gathering and transportation pipeline systems and NGL pipelines and the asset utilization rates at our natural gas processing plants, we must continually obtain new supplies.  The level of successful drilling activity and prices of, and demand for, natural gas and crude oil, as well as producers’ desire and ability to obtain necessary permits are some of the factors that may affect new supplies of natural gas and NGL.  If we are not able to obtain new supplies of natural gas to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells or because of competition, throughput on our pipelines and the utilization rates of our treating and processing facilities would decline.  This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows, and our ability to make cash distributions. Our operations are subject to planned and unplanned downtime, business interruptions, and operational hazards, any of which could adversely impact our ability to operate and could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our operating results are largely dependent on the continued operation of facilities and assets owned and operated by us and our equity affiliates.  Interruptions may materially reduce productivity and thus, the profitability, of operations during and after downtime, including for planned turnarounds and scheduled maintenance activities.  In the past, we and certain of our equity affiliates also have temporarily shut down facilities due to the threat of severe weather, such as hurricanes.  Additionally, the availability of natural gas and electricity necessary to operate our assets can be affected by weather, pipeline interruptions, grid outages, and logistics disruptions, which may also cause us to temporarily curtail or shut down operations. 22 Although we take precautions to ensure and enhance the safety of our operations and minimize the risk of disruptions, our operations are subject to the hazards inherent in chemicals, refining and midstream businesses, such as explosions, fires, refinery, processing facility or pipeline releases or other incidents, power outages, labor disputes, global health crises, restrictive governmental regulation or other natural or man-made disasters, such as geopolitical conflicts and acts of terrorism, including cyber intrusion.  The inability to operate facilities or assets due to any of these events could significantly impair our ability to manufacture, process, store or transport products. Any casualty occurrence involving our assets or operations could result in serious personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property and equipment, environmental pollution, impairment of operations and substantial losses to us.  For assets located near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of damage resulting from these risks could be greater.  Damages resulting from an incident involving any of our assets or operations may result in our being named as a defendant in one or more lawsuits asserting potentially substantial claims or in our being assessed potentially substantial remediation fines or penalties by governmental authorities.  Should any of these risks materialize at any of our equity affiliates, it could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial condition of the equity affiliate and negatively impact their ability to make future distributions to us. We are subject to interruptions of supply and offtake, as well as increased costs, as a result of our reliance on third-party transportation of crude oil, NGL and refined petroleum products. We often utilize the services of third parties to transport crude oil, NGL and refined petroleum products to and from our facilities.  In addition to our own operational risks, we could experience interruptions of supply or increases in costs to deliver refined petroleum products to market if the ability of the pipelines or vessels to transport crude oil or refined petroleum products is disrupted because of weather events, accidents, governmental regulations, public health crises, armed hostilities, or third-party actions, including protests.  A prolonged disruption of the ability of a pipeline or vessel to transport crude oil, NGL or refined petroleum products to or from one or more of our refineries or other facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our investments in joint ventures decrease our ability to manage risk. We conduct some of our operations, including parts of our Midstream, Refining and Marketing and Specialties (M&S) segments, and our entire Chemicals segment, through joint ventures in which we share control with our joint venture partners.  Our joint venture partners may have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours or those of the joint venture, or our joint venture participants may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations, and we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone.  Failure by us, or an entity in which we have a joint venture interest, to adequately manage the risks associated with any acquisitions or joint ventures could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our joint ventures and, in turn, our business and operations. Public health crises, epidemics and pandemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, have had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our business.  Any future widespread health crises could materially and adversely impact our business in the future. Our global operations expose us to risks associated with public health crises and outbreaks of epidemics, pandemics, or contagious diseases, such as COVID-19.  The COVID-19 pandemic and the associated containment efforts had a serious adverse impact on the economy and a material adverse effect on our business, as the demand for crude oil, gasoline, jet fuel, diesel fuel and other refined products was significantly reduced.  We may be impacted again in the future depending on the duration and scope of any future health crises, epidemics, or pandemics. 23 Even if a virus or other illness does not spread significantly, the perceived risk of infection or health risk may result in reduced demand for our products and materially affect our business.  As we cannot predict the duration or scope of any public health crisis, epidemic or pandemic, the negative financial impact to our results cannot be reasonably estimated and could be material.  Factors that will influence the impact on our business and operations include the duration and extent of such events, including the virulence of the infection, the timing of vaccine development and distribution across the world and its impact on economic recovery, the extent of imposed or recommended containment and mitigation measures, including travel restrictions, and their impact on our operations, and the general economic consequences of public health crises, epidemics and pandemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. To the extent any public health crisis, epidemic or pandemic adversely affected or affects our business and financial results, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks that could adversely affect our business described in this Annual Report, such as risks associated with industry capacity utilization, volatility in the price and availability of raw materials, supply chain interruptions, material adverse changes in customer relationships including any failure of a customer to perform its obligations under agreements with us, and risks associated with worldwide or regional economic conditions. Competition Risks Refining and marketing competitors that produce their own feedstocks, have more extensive retail outlets, or have greater financial resources may have a competitive advantage. The refining and marketing industry is highly competitive with respect to both feedstock supply and refined petroleum product markets.  We compete with many companies for available supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks and for outlets for our refined petroleum products.  We do not produce any of our crude oil feedstocks.  Some of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from their own production and some have more extensive retail outlets than we have.  Competitors that have their own production or extensive retail outlets (and greater brand-name recognition) are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. Some of our competitors also have materially greater financial and other resources than we have.  Such competitors have a greater ability to bear the economic risks inherent in all aspects of our business.  In addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual customers. Volatility in market demand for our petrochemical and plastics products and midstream transportation services and the risk of overbuild in these industries could negatively impact the results of operations of our businesses. We and our equity affiliates have made and continue to make significant investments to meet market demand for our products and services, such as investments in midstream infrastructure and construction of new petrochemicals facilities.   Similar investments have been made, and additional investments may be made in the future, by us, our competitors or by new entrants to the markets and industries we serve.  The success of these investments largely depends on the realization of anticipated market demand, and these projects typically require significant development periods, during which time demand for our products or services may change, or additional investments by competitors may be made that could result in an overbuild of supply.  Any of these or other competitive forces could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows, as well as our return on capital employed. 24 Strategic Performance and Future Growth Risks Large capital-intensive projects can take many years to complete, and the political and regulatory environments or market conditions could deteriorate significantly between the project approval date and the project startup date, negatively impacting expected project returns. Our basis for approving large-scale capital-intensive projects, such as the conversion of our San Francisco refinery into a renewable fuels facility, is the expectation that it will deliver an acceptable rate of return on the capital invested.  We base these forecasted project economics on our best estimate of future market conditions including the regulatory and operating environment.  Most large-scale projects take several years to complete.  During this multiyear period, the political and regulatory environments or other market conditions can change from those we anticipate, and these changes could be significant.  Supply chain disruptions may also delay projects or increase costs.  Accordingly, we may not be able to realize our expected returns from a large investment in a capital project, and this could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and our return on capital employed. Plans we or our joint ventures may have to expand or construct assets or develop new technologies, and plans for our future performance are subject to risks associated with societal and political pressures and other forms of opposition to the future development, transportation and use of petroleum-based fuels.  Such risks could adversely impact our business and results of operations. Certain of our plans are based upon the assumption that societal sentiment will continue to enable, and existing regulations will remain in place to allow for, the future development, transportation and use of petroleum-based fuels.  A portion of our growth strategy is dependent on our and our joint ventures’ ability to capture growth opportunities in the Midstream and Chemicals segments.  Regulatory policy decisions relating to the production, refining, transportation, marketing and use of petroleum-based fuels are subject to political pressures and the influence and protests of environmental and other special interest groups.  For example, the construction or expansion of pipelines can involve numerous regulatory, permitting, environmental, political, and legal uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control.  We may not be able to identify or execute growth projects, and those that are identified may not be completed on schedule or at the budgeted cost, if at all.  In addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project.  Delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs or the inability to complete growth projects could negatively impact our reputation, results of operations, cash flows and our return on capital employed. Our Energy Research & Innovation organization works to develop new technologies and solutions focused on advancing our business units, including renewable and sustainable fuels research.  Our efforts to research and develop new technologies is subject to a multitude of factors and conditions, many of which are out of our control.  Examples of such factors include evolving government regulation, the pace of changes in technology, the successful development and deployment of existing or new technologies and business solutions on a commercial scale, competition from third parties in developing new technologies and the availability, timing and cost of equipment.  The occurrence of these factors may delay or increase the cost of our efforts, which could negatively impact our reputation, results of operations, cash flows and our return on capital employed. Political and economic developments could affect our operations and materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. Actions of federal, state, local and international governments through legislation or regulation, executive order, permit or other review of infrastructure or facility development, and commercial restrictions could delay projects, increase costs, limit development, or otherwise reduce our profitability both in the United States and abroad.  Any such actions may affect many aspects of our operations, including: • Establishing maximum margins that can be earned on sales of motor fuels or imposing financial penalties on profits earned above established maximum margins. • Limiting or prohibiting our ability to undertake turnaround or other maintenance activities at our refineries. 25 • Requiring permits or other approvals that may impose unforeseen or unduly burdensome conditions or potentially cause delays in our operations. • Further limiting or prohibiting construction or other activities in environmentally sensitive or other areas. • Requiring increased capital costs to construct, maintain or upgrade equipment, facilities or infrastructure. • Restricting the locations where we may construct facilities or requiring the relocation of facilities. For example, in March 2023, the California legislature adopted Senate Bill No. 2 (such statute, together with any regulations contemplated or issued thereunder, SBx 1-2), which, among other things, (i) authorizes the establishment of a maximum gross gasoline refining margin (maximum margin) and the imposition of a financial penalty for profits above the maximum margin, (ii) significantly expands reporting obligations relating to the maintenance and business of our California refineries, which includes reporting requirements to the California Energy Commission (CEC) for all participants in the petroleum industry supply chain in California, (iii) creates the Division of Petroleum Market Oversight within the CEC to analyze the data provided under SBx 1-2, and (iv) authorizes the CEC to regulate the timing and other aspects of refinery turnaround and other maintenance activities in certain instances. The CEC is currently in rulemaking with respect to various aspects of SBx 1-2, and the potential implementation of a financial penalty or any restrictions or delays on our ability to undertake turnaround or other maintenance activities creates uncertainty due to the potential adverse effects on our refining, marketing and midstream operations in California, which may be material to our results of operations, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. We anticipate that other jurisdictions may contemplate similarly focused legislation or actions.  The ultimate timing and impacts of SBx 1-2 and any other similarly focused legislation or actions are subject to considerable uncertainty due to a number of factors, including technological and economic feasibility, legal challenges, and potential changes in law, regulation, or policy, and it is not currently possible to predict the ultimate effects of these matters and developments, but they may be significant. For example, adverse effects on the financial performance of our operations in the state of California or the useful lives of the assets related to such operations may result in the recognition of material asset impairment charges and asset retirement obligations. Furthermore, the U.S. government can prevent or restrict us from doing business in foreign countries and from doing business with entities affiliated with foreign governments, which can include state oil companies and U.S. subsidiaries of those companies.  The Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) of the U.S. Department of the Treasury administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions based on U.S. foreign policy and national security matters.  The effect of any such OFAC sanctions could disrupt transactions with or operations involving entities affiliated with sanctioned countries, and could limit our ability to obtain optimum crude slates and other refinery feedstocks and effectively distribute refined petroleum products.  We may face other regulatory changes in the U.S. including, but not limited to, the enactment of tax law changes that adversely affect our industry, new emissions standards, restrictive flaring regulations, and more stringent requirements for environmental impact studies and reviews. Hostilities in the Middle East, Russia or elsewhere or the occurrence or threat of future terrorist attacks could adversely affect the economies of the U.S. and other countries.  Other political and economic risks include global health crises; financial market turmoil; economic volatility and global economic slowdown; currency exchange rate fluctuations; short-term and long-term inflationary pressures; rising or prolonged periods of high interest rates; import or export restrictions and changes in trade regulations; supply chain disruptions; civil unrest and other political risks; limitations in the availability of labor to develop, staff and manage operations; and potentially adverse tax developments.  If any of these events occur, our businesses and results of operations may be adversely affected. 26 We may not be able to effectively identify, whether through acquisition, investment or development, lower-carbon opportunities on favorable terms, or at all, and failure to do so could limit our growth, our ability to participate in the energy transition, and our ability to meet our environmental goals and targets. Part of our strategy includes capturing growth opportunities in our Emerging Energy business to further advance our participation in the energy transition and meet our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reduction targets.  This strategy depends on our ability to successfully identify and evaluate acquisition and investment opportunities or develop and commercialize new technologies.  The number of lower-carbon opportunities may be limited, and we will compete with other energy companies for these limited opportunities, which could make them more expensive and the returns for our business less attractive and possibly cause us to refrain from making them at all. Further, certain lower-carbon opportunities will depend on technological and other advancements that may not be within our control and may not come to fruition or be economically feasible in the near term. Any new opportunities also may depend on the viability of new assets or businesses that are contingent on public policy mechanisms including investment tax credits, subsidies, renewable portfolio standards and carbon trading plans.  These mechanisms have been implemented at the state and federal levels to support the development of renewable energy and other clean infrastructure technologies.  The availability and continuation of public policy support mechanisms will drive a significant part of the economics and viability of lower-carbon and clean energy investments generally, as well as our participation in them.  If we are unable to identify and consummate acquisitions and investments, our ability to execute a portion of our growth strategy and meet our environmental goals may be impeded. Regulatory and Environmental, Climate and Weather Risks Climate change and severe weather may adversely affect our and our joint ventures’ facilities and ongoing operations. The potential physical effects of climate change and severe weather, as well as other chronic physical effects such as water shortages and rising sea levels, on our operations are highly uncertain and depend upon the unique geographic and environmental factors present.  We have systems in place to manage potential acute physical risks, including those that may be caused by climate change, but such events could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations.  Examples of potential physical risks include floods, hurricane-force winds, severe storms, droughts, heat waves, earthquakes, wildfires, freezing temperatures and snowstorms, as well as rising sea levels at our coastal facilities.  We have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs to protect our assets from physical risks and to employ processes, to the extent available, to mitigate such risks. We operate facilities located in coastal regions of the United States, which have been impacted by hurricanes that have required us to temporarily, or even permanently, shut down operations at those sites.  CPChem also operates facilities on the Gulf Coast and has had to temporarily shut down sites in the past as a result of hurricanes.  Any extreme weather events or rising sea levels may disrupt the ability to operate our facilities located near coastal areas or to transport crude oil, refined petroleum or petrochemical and plastics products in these areas.  Extended periods of such disruption could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.  We could also incur substantial costs to prevent or repair damage to these facilities.  Finally, depending on the severity and duration of any extreme weather events or climate conditions, our operations may need to be modified and material costs incurred, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There are certain environmental hazards and risks inherent in our operations that could adversely affect those operations and our financial results. The operation of refineries, power plants, fractionators, pipelines, terminals, gas processing facilities and vessels is inherently subject to the risks of spills, discharges or other inadvertent releases of petroleum or hazardous substances.  If any of these events had previously occurred or occurs in the future in connection with any of our refineries, pipelines or refined petroleum products terminals, or in connection with any facilities that receive our wastes or byproducts for treatment or disposal, other than events for which we are indemnified, we could be liable for all costs and penalties associated with their remediation under federal, state, local and international environmental laws or at common law, and could be liable for property damage to third parties caused by contamination from releases and spills. 27 We expect to continue to incur substantial capital expenditures and operating costs as a result of our compliance with existing and future environmental laws and regulations. Our business is subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment.  These laws and regulations continue to increase in both number and complexity and affect our operations with respect to, among other things: • The discharge of pollutants into the environment. • Emissions into the atmosphere, such as nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide and mercury emissions, and GHG emissions, as they are, or may become, regulated. • The quantity of renewable fuels that must be blended into motor fuels. • The handling, use, storage, transportation, disposal and cleanup of hazardous materials and hazardous and nonhazardous wastes. • The dismantlement and abandonment of our facilities and restoration of our properties at the end of their useful lives. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods could be materially adversely affected. The adoption of climate change legislation or regulation could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the refined petroleum products we produce. Currently, multiple legislative and regulatory measures to address GHG and other emissions are in various phases of consideration, promulgation or implementation.  These include actions to develop international, federal, regional or statewide programs, which could require reductions in our GHG or other emissions, establish a carbon tax and decrease the demand for our refined products.  Requiring reductions in these emissions could result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls at our facilities and (iii) administer and manage any emissions programs, including acquiring emission credits or allotments. For example, in 2017, the California state legislature adopted Assembly Bill 398, which provides direction and parameters on utilizing cap and trade after 2020 to meet the 40% reduction target for GHG emissions from 1990 levels by 2030 specified in Senate Bill 32.  Compliance with the cap and trade program is demonstrated through a market-based credit system.  Additionally, on August 25, 2022, the California Air Resources Board (CARB) adopted regulations that effectively ban the in-state sales of new cars containing internal combustion engines beginning in 2035.  Also, on December 15, 2022, CARB adopted its “2022 Scoping Plan for Achieving Carbon Neutrality,” which purports to provide a road map for California to achieve carbon neutrality (which it defines as removing as many carbon emissions from the atmosphere as it emits) by year 2045.  Other states are proposing, or have already promulgated, low carbon fuel standards or similar initiatives to reduce emissions from the transportation sector.  If we are unable to pass the costs of compliance on to our customers, sufficient credits are unavailable for purchase, we have to pay a significantly higher price for credits, or if we are otherwise unable to meet our compliance obligation, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Federal, regional and state climate change and air emissions goals and regulatory programs are complex, subject to change and impose considerable uncertainty due to a number of factors including technological feasibility, legal challenges and potential changes in federal policy.  Increasing concerns about climate change and carbon intensity have also resulted in heightened societal awareness and a number of international and national measures to limit GHG emissions.  Additional stricter regulatory measures and investor pressure can be expected in the future and any of these changes may have a material adverse impact on our business or financial condition. 28 International climate change-related efforts, such as the 2015 United Nations Conference on Climate Change, which led to the creation of the Paris Agreement, and the 2023 United Nations Climate Change Conference, may impact the regulatory framework of states whose policies directly influence our present and future operations.  Although the United States had previously withdrawn from the Paris Agreement, it has since taken the steps necessary to rejoin, which was effective in February 2021.  The future of the U.S.’s climate change strategy and the impact to our industry and operations due to further GHG regulation is unknown at this time. Increased regulation of the fossil fuel industry, particularly with respect to hydraulic fracturing, could result in reductions or delays in U.S. production of crude oil and natural gas, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Most of the crude oil and natural gas production of our Midstream segment’s customers is being produced from unconventional oil shale reservoirs.  These reservoirs require hydraulic fracturing completion processes to release the hydrocarbons from the rock so they can flow through casing to the surface.  Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into a formation to stimulate hydrocarbon production.  The EPA, as well as several state agencies, have commenced studies and/or convened hearings regarding the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities.  At the same time, certain environmental groups have suggested that additional laws may be needed to more closely and uniformly regulate the hydraulic fracturing process, and legislation has been proposed to provide for such regulation.  In addition, some communities have adopted measures to ban hydraulic fracturing in their communities. Also, certain interest groups have also proposed ballot initiatives and constitutional amendments designed to restrict crude oil and natural gas development generally.  If ballot initiatives, local, state, or national restrictions or prohibitions are adopted and result in more stringent limitations on the production and development of crude oil and natural gas, we may incur significant costs to comply with the requirements, and producers may experience delays or curtailment in the permitting or pursuit of exploration, development or production activities.  Such compliance costs and delays, curtailments, limitations or prohibitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  In addition to these proposed ballot initiatives and constitutional amendments, municipalities, such as the City of Los Angeles, have already enacted or contemplate enacting complete or partial bans on oil and gas exploration and production activities. If legislative and regulatory initiatives cause a material decrease in the drilling of new wells and related servicing activities, it may reduce crude oil, natural gas and NGL supplies, negatively affecting the volume of products available to our Midstream segment and increasing feedstock prices for our Chemicals and Refining segments, resulting in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Compliance with the EPA’s Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) could adversely affect our financial results. The EPA has implemented the RFS pursuant to the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007.  The RFS program sets annual renewable volume obligation (RVO) requirements for the quantity of renewable fuels, such as ethanol, that must be blended into motor fuels consumed in the United States.  To provide certain flexibility in compliance options available to the industry, a Renewable Identification Number (RIN) is assigned to each gallon of renewable fuel produced in, or imported into, the United States.  As a producer of petroleum-based motor fuels, we are obligated to blend renewable fuels into the products we produce at a rate that is at least commensurate to the EPA’s RVO requirements and, to the extent we do not, we must purchase RINs in the open market to satisfy our obligation under the RFS program. We are exposed to the volatility in the market price of RINs.  We cannot predict the future prices of RINs.  RINs prices are dependent upon a variety of factors, including EPA regulations, the availability of RINs for purchase, and levels of transportation fuels produced, which can vary significantly from quarter to quarter.  If sufficient RINs are unavailable for purchase, if we have to pay a significantly higher price for RINs, if we purchase RINs that are ultimately determined to be invalid, or if we are otherwise unable to meet the EPA’s RVO requirements, including because the EPA mandates a blending quantity of renewable fuel that exceeds the amount that is commercially feasible to blend into motor fuel (a situation commonly referred to as “the blend wall”), our operations could be materially adversely impacted, up to and including a reduction in produced motor fuel for sale in the United States. 29 Societal, technological, political and scientific developments around emissions and fuel efficiency may decrease demand for traditional transportation fuels. Developments aimed at reducing GHG emissions may decrease the demand or increase the cost for our transportation fuels.  Societal attitudes toward these products and their relationship to the environment may significantly affect our effectiveness in marketing our products.  Government efforts to steer the public toward non-petroleum-based fuel dependent modes of transportation may foster a negative perception toward transportation fuels or increase costs of our products, thus affecting the public’s attitude toward our major products.  Advanced technology and increased use of vehicles that do not use petroleum-based transportation fuels or that are powered by hybrid engines would reduce demand for the motor fuel we produce.  We may also incur increased production costs, which we may not be able to pass along to our customers. Additionally, renewable fuels, alternative energy mandates and energy conservation efforts could reduce demand for refined petroleum products.  Tax incentives and other subsidies can make renewable fuels and alternative energy more competitive with refined petroleum products than they otherwise might be, which may reduce refined petroleum product margins and hinder the ability of refined petroleum products to compete with renewable fuels.  The competition for renewable fuels feedstocks may also increase, negatively impacting the availability of such feedstocks or increasing their cost. These developments could potentially have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Continuing political and social concerns about climate change and other Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) matters may result in changes to our business and significant expenditures, including litigation-related expenses. Increasing attention to global climate change has resulted in increased investor attention and an increased risk of public and private litigation, which could increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business.  Additionally, cities, counties, and other governmental entities in several states in the U.S. began filing lawsuits against energy companies in 2017, including Phillips 66, seeking damages allegedly associated with climate change, and the plaintiffs are seeking unspecified damages and abatement under various tort theories.  Similar lawsuits may be filed in other jurisdictions.  While we believe these lawsuits are an inappropriate vehicle to address the challenges associated with climate change and will vigorously defend against them, the ultimate outcome and impact to us of any such litigation cannot be predicted with certainty, and we could incur substantial legal costs associated with defending these and similar lawsuits in the future. Additionally, governments and private parties are also increasingly filing lawsuits or initiating regulatory action based on allegations that certain public statements regarding climate change and other ESG-related matters and practices by companies are false or misleading “greenwashing” that violate deceptive trade practices and consumer protection statutes.  Such claims are included in lawsuits filed against energy companies, including Phillips 66.  Such lawsuits present a high degree of uncertainty regarding the extent to which energy companies face an increased risk of liability stemming from climate change or ESG disclosures and practices. Efforts have also been made by governments and private parties to shut down energy assets by challenging operating permits, the validity of easements or the compliance with easement conditions.  Lawsuits and/or regulatory proceedings or actions of this nature could result in interruptions to construction or operations of current or future projects, delays in completing those projects and/or increased project costs, all of which may have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. These risks may result in unexpected costs, negative sentiments about our company, disruptions in our operations, increases to our operating expenses and reduced demand for our products, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 30 Increased concerns regarding plastic waste in the environment, consumers selectively reducing their consumption of plastic products due to recycling concerns, or new or more restrictive regulations and rules related to plastic waste could reduce demand for CPChem’s plastic products and could negatively impact our equity interest. There is a growing concern with the accumulation of plastic, including microplastics, and other packaging waste in the environment.  Additionally, plastics have recently faced increased public backlash and scrutiny.  Policy measures to address this concern are being discussed or implemented by governments at all levels.  In addition, a host of single-use plastic bans and taxes have been passed by countries around the world and counties and municipalities throughout the U.S.  Increased regulation of, or prohibition on, the use of certain plastic products could reduce demand for certain of the products CPChem produces, which could negatively impact its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, thereby negatively impacting our equity earnings, and cash distributions that we receive, from CPChem. Cybersecurity and Data Privacy Risks Cybersecurity incidents and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. Our information technology and infrastructure, or information technology and infrastructure of our third-party service providers (e.g., cloud-based service providers), may be vulnerable to attacks by malicious actors or breached due to human error, malfeasance or other disruptions, including ransomware and other malware, phishing and social engineering schemes, malicious software, data privacy breaches by employees, insiders or others with authorized access, attempts to gain unauthorized access to our data and systems; and other cybersecurity incidents.  Any such incidents could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen.  Any such unauthorized access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in one or more of the following outcomes: (i) unauthorized access to or a loss or misuse of intellectual property, proprietary information, or employee, customer or vendor data; (ii) public disclosure of sensitive information; (iii) increased costs to prevent, respond to, or mitigate cybersecurity events, such as deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, training employees, and engaging third-party experts and consultants; (iv) systems interruption; (v) disruption of our business operations; (vi) remediation costs for repairs of system damage, or regulatory fines or penalties; (vii) reputational damage that adversely affects customer or investor confidence; (viii) exposure to legal liability; and (ix) damage to our competitiveness, stock price, and long-term stockholder value.  Any of the foregoing can be exacerbated by a delay or failure to detect a cybersecurity incident or the full extent of such incident.  Further, we have exposure to cybersecurity incidents and the negative impacts of such incidents related to our critical data and proprietary information housed on third-party IT systems, including cloud-based systems.  Additionally, authorized third-party IT systems or software can be compromised and used to gain access or introduce malware to our IT systems that can materially impact our business.  Although we devote significant resources to prevent cybersecurity incidents and protect our system and data, we have experienced actual and attempted cybersecurity incidents, and while we do not believe that any of these incidents has had a material effect on our business, operations or financial condition, it is possible that a future incident may have such an effect. A cybersecurity incident may also result in legal claims or proceedings against us by our shareholders, employees, customers, vendors, and governmental authorities (U.S. and non-U.S.).  Our infrastructure protection technologies and disaster recovery plans may not be able to prevent a technology systems breach or systems failure, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.  Furthermore, the continuing and evolving threat of cyberattacks has resulted in increased regulatory focus on prevention.  To the extent we face increased regulatory requirements, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to meet such requirements. 31 Increasing regulatory focus on privacy and cybersecurity issues and expanding laws could expose us to increased liability, subject us to lawsuits, investigations and other liabilities and restrictions on our operations that could significantly and adversely affect our business. Along with our own data and information collected in the normal course of our business, we and our partners collect and retain certain data that is subject to specific laws and regulations.  The transfer and use of this data both domestically and across international borders is becoming increasingly complex.  This data is subject to governmental regulation at the federal, state, international, national, provincial and local levels in many areas of our business, including data privacy and security laws such as the European Union (EU) and United Kingdom (UK) versions of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA). The GDPR applies to the transfer and processing of personal data of those who live in the EU or UK, respectively.  As interpretation and enforcement of the GDPR evolves, it creates a range of new compliance obligations, which could cause us to incur additional costs.  Failure to comply could result in significant penalties that may materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, and cash flows. The CCPA, which came into effect on January 1, 2020, gives California residents specific rights in relation to their personal information, requires that companies take certain actions, including notifications for security incidents and may apply to activities regarding personal information that is collected by us, directly or indirectly, from California residents.  As interpretation and enforcement of the CCPA evolves, it creates a range of new compliance obligations, with the possibility for significant financial penalties for noncompliance that may materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, and cash flows. Comprehensive privacy laws with some similarities to the CCPA have been proposed or passed at the U.S. federal and state levels, such as the Colorado Privacy Act.  Additionally, the Federal Trade Commission and many state attorneys general are interpreting federal and state consumer protection laws to impose standards for the online collection, use, dissemination and security of data as well as requiring disclosures about these practices.  Existing and potential future data privacy laws pose increasingly complex compliance challenges and potentially elevate our costs.  Any failure by us to comply with these laws and regulations, including as a result of a security or privacy breach, could result in significant penalties and liabilities for us.  Additionally, if we acquire a company that has violated or is not in compliance with applicable data protection laws, we may incur significant liabilities and penalties as a result. 32 Indebtedness, Capital Markets and Financial Risks Uncertainty and illiquidity in credit and capital markets can impair our ability to obtain credit and financing on acceptable terms and can adversely affect the financial strength of our business partners. Our ability to obtain credit and capital depends in large measure on the state of the credit and capital markets, which is subject to factors beyond our control.  Our ability to access credit and capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, access to those markets, which could constrain our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions.  In addition, the cost and availability of debt and equity financing may be adversely impacted by unstable or illiquid market conditions.  Protracted uncertainty and illiquidity in these markets also could have an adverse impact on our lenders, commodity transaction counterparties, or our customers, preventing them from meeting their obligations to us. From time to time, our cash needs may exceed our available cash and our business could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to obtain necessary funds from financing activities.  From time to time, we may need to supplement cash generated from operations with proceeds from financing activities.  Uncertainty and illiquidity in financial markets may materially impact the ability of the participating financial institutions to fund their commitments to us under our liquidity facilities that are supported by a broad syndicate of financial institutions.  Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain the full amount of the funds available under our liquidity facilities to satisfy our cash requirements, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial position. Negative sentiment towards fossil fuels and increased attention to environmental and social matters, including climate change, could adversely affect our business, the market price for our common stock and our access to and cost of capital. There have been efforts in recent years aimed at the investment community, including investment advisors, sovereign wealth funds, public pension funds, universities, and other groups, to promote the divestment of fossil fuel companies, as well as to pressure lenders, insurers, and other financial services companies to limit or curtail activities with fossil fuel companies.  If these or similar efforts are continued, our stock price, our ability to access capital markets or insure our operations, and our cost of capital may be negatively impacted. Members of the investment community are also increasing their focus on environmental and social (E&S) matters, including practices related to GHG emissions, climate change, business resilience, diversity and inclusion, environmental justice and other E&S matters.  As a result, we may face increasing pressure regarding our E&S disclosures and practices. Additionally, members of the investment community may screen companies such as ours for E&S performance before investing in our stock or participating in our financing activities.  If we are unable to meet the E&S standards set by these investors, we may lose investors, our stock price may be negatively impacted, our access to capital markets and lenders may be curtailed, and our reputation may be negatively affected. Our efforts to accurately report on E&S-related issues expose us to operational, reputational, financial, legal, and other risks.  Standards for tracking and reporting on E&S-related matters, including climate-related matters, have not been harmonized and continue to evolve.  Processes and controls for reporting on E&S matters are subject to evolving and disparate standards of identification, measurement, and reporting on such metrics, including any climate change and E&S-related public company disclosure requirements adopted by the SEC, and such standards may change over time, which could result in significant revisions to our current E&S practices and disclosures. 33 A failure to achieve our published GHG emissions intensity reduction goals and other E&S targets we may set in the future could negatively impact our business. We have announced targets to reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions intensity from our operations by 30% and Scope 3 GHG emissions intensity of our energy products by 15% by 2030, and a target to reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions intensity by 50% by 2050, in each case as compared to baseline 2019 levels.  Our ability to achieve these goals depends on many factors, many of which are beyond our control, such as advancements that enable broad commercial deployment and use of lower-carbon technologies; global policies that fund and incentivize the development of a lower-carbon energy system; changes in consumer behavior and energy choices; the availability of materials throughout the supply chain; evolving regulatory requirements; competitor actions; the availability of renewable feedstocks; and acquisition and divestiture activities.  Further, the standards for tracking and reporting on GHG emissions have not been harmonized and continue to evolve.  Our selection of disclosure frameworks that seek to align with various reporting standards may change from time to time and may result in a lack of comparative data from period to period.  In addition, our processes and controls may not always align with evolving voluntary standards for identifying, measuring, and reporting GHG emissions, our interpretation of reporting standards may differ from those of others, and such standards may change over time, any of which could result in significant revisions to our goals or reported progress in achieving such goals. The pursuit of these targets, and any other climate-related or E&S goals we may announce, may increase our costs, require us to purchase emissions credits or offsets, or limit or negatively impact our business plans.  Further, any failure or perceived failure to achieve such goals and targets within the timelines that we announce, or at all, could cause reputational harm, negatively impact our stock price and access to and cost of capital, and expose us to enforcement or litigation, among other negative impacts. We do not fully insure against all potential losses, including those from extreme weather events, and, therefore, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by unexpected or underinsured liabilities and increased costs. We maintain insurance coverage in amounts we believe to be prudent, including against many, but not all, potential liabilities arising from operating hazards.  We rely on existing liquidity, financial resources and borrowing capacity to meet short-term obligations that would result from uninsured or underinsured liabilities arising from operating hazards, including but not limited to, explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents involving our assets or operations, including weather events, which could reduce the funds available to us for capital and investment spending and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Deterioration in our credit profile could increase our costs of borrowing money, limit our access to the capital markets and commercial credit, and could trigger co-venturer rights under joint venture arrangements. Our credit ratings could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, the circumstances warrant.  If a rating agency were to downgrade our rating below investment grade, our borrowing costs would increase, and our funding sources could decrease.  This could require us to provide collateral, or other forms of security, which would increase our costs and restrict operational and financial flexibility. In addition, a failure by Phillips 66 to maintain an investment grade rating could affect its business relationships with suppliers and operating partners.  For example, Phillips 66’s agreement with Chevron Corporation (Chevron) regarding CPChem permits Chevron to buy Phillips 66’s 50% interest in CPChem for fair market value if Phillips 66 experiences a change in control or if both Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. lower their credit ratings below investment grade and the credit rating from either rating agency remains below investment grade for 365 days thereafter, with fair market value determined by agreement or by nationally recognized investment banks.  As a result of these factors, a downgrade of credit ratings could have a material adverse impact on Phillips 66’s future operations and financial position. 34 The level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. Assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the expected return on plan assets for our pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans are evaluated by us based on a variety of independent sources of market information and in consultation with outside actuaries.  If we determine that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return, or health care cost trend rate, our future pension and postretirement benefit expenses and funding requirements could increase.  In addition, several factors could cause actual results to differ significantly from the actuarial assumptions that we use.  Funding obligations are determined based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date as required under relevant regulations.  Future pension funding requirements, and the timing of funding payments, could be affected by legislation enacted by governmental authorities. We may incur losses as a result of our forward contracts and derivative transactions. We currently use commodity derivative instruments, and we expect to use them in the future.  If the instruments we utilize to hedge our exposure to various types of risk are not effective, we may incur losses.  Derivative transactions involve the risk that counterparties may be unable to satisfy their obligations to us.  The risk of counterparty default is heightened in a poor economic environment.  In addition, we may be required to incur additional costs in connection with future regulation of derivative instruments to the extent it is applicable to us. We are subject to continuing contingent liabilities of ConocoPhillips following the separation.  Further, ConocoPhillips has indemnified us for certain matters, but may not be able to satisfy its obligations to us in the future. In connection with our separation from ConocoPhillips in 2012, we entered into an Indemnification and Release Agreement and certain other agreements pursuant to which ConocoPhillips agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify ConocoPhillips for certain liabilities. Indemnities that we may be required to provide are not subject to any cap and may be significant.  Third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that ConocoPhillips has agreed to retain.  Further, the indemnity from ConocoPhillips may not be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, and ConocoPhillips may not be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations.  Each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 35

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Management’s Discussion and Analysis is the company’s analysis of its financial performance, financial condition, and significant trends that may affect future performance.  It should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The term “earnings” as used in Management’s Discussion and Analysis refers to net income attributable to Phillips 66.  The terms “results,” “before-tax income” or “before-tax loss” as used in Management’s Discussion and Analysis refer to income (loss) before income taxes. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW AND BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT Phillips 66 is uniquely positioned as a diversified and integrated downstream energy company operating with Midstream, Chemicals, Refining, and Marketing and Specialties (M&S) segments.  At December 31, 2023, we had total assets of $75.5 billion. Executive Overview During 2023, we reported earnings of $7 billion, generated $7 billion in cash from operating activities and received proceeds from debt offerings, net of debt repayments, of $2 billion.  We used available cash primarily to repurchase noncontrolling interests in DCP Midstream, LP (DCP LP) for $4.1 billion, fund capital expenditures and investments of $2.4 billion, repurchase shares of common stock for $4 billion and pay dividends on our common stock of $1.9 billion.  We ended 2023 with $3.3 billion of cash and cash equivalents and approximately $6.4 billion of total committed capacity available under our credit facilities. Strategic Priorities Update In November 2022, we announced financial and operational targets toward achieving the company’s strategic priorities and in October 2023, we announced updates to certain targets.  Our strategic priorities that are intended to enhance long-term shareholder value include: • Deliver Shareholder Returns – We believe shareholder value is enhanced through, among other things, a secure, competitive and growing dividend, complemented by share repurchases.  We increased our target for returns to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends from July 2022 through year-end 2024 to a range of $13 billion to $15 billion from a range of $10 billion to $12 billion.  In support of the increased target, our Board of Directors approved a $5 billion increase to our share repurchase authorization on October 25, 2023.   We plan to return at least 50% of net cash provided by operating activities to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.  In 2023, we paid $4 billion to repurchase shares of our common stock and paid dividends on our common stock of $1.9 billion.  The amount and timing of future dividend payments and the level and timing of future share repurchases is subject to the discretion of, and approval by, our Board of Directors and will depend on various factors including our share price, results of operations, financial condition and cash required for future business plans. We also plan to monetize certain assets that are no longer considered to be a long-term strategic fit.  We expect to generate proceeds of over $3 billion from the disposition of these non-core assets, which we plan to use to further advance our strategic priorities, including returns to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.  The timing of these asset dispositions will be subject to satisfactory market conditions and any necessary regulatory approvals. • Improve Refining Performance – We are focused on optimizing utilization rates and product yield at our refineries through reliable and safe operations, which will enable us to capture the value available in the market in terms of prices and margins.  We plan to enhance Refining segment returns and increase our utilization rates by focusing on low-capital, higher-return projects that increase asset reliability, improve market capture and reduce costs.  During 2023, our worldwide refining crude oil capacity utilization rate was 92% and our worldwide refining clean product yield was 85%, compared to 90% and 84%, respectively, in 2022. 42 • Capture Value from Wellhead-to-Market – We are focused on growing our fully integrated natural gas liquids (NGL) wellhead-to-market value chain within our Midstream segment.  As part of executing this strategy, we completed two transactions that increased our economic interest in DCP LP; the first in 2022, which increased our indirect economic interest to 43.3%, and the second in 2023, which increased our aggregate direct and indirect economic interest in DCP LP to 86.8%.  We have already captured operating and commercial synergies from these transactions and remain focused on capturing additional synergies as we complete our integration activities in 2024.  In 2024, we have budgeted $985 million of capital expenditures and investments in our Midstream segment, of which $593 million will be focused on enhancing our integrated NGL wellhead-to-market value chain.  In addition, growth capital includes $250 million related to the repayment of our 25% share of Dakota Access, LLC’s (Dakota Access) debt due in 2024. • Execute Business Transformation – We continue to progress our multi-year business transformation aimed at sustainably reducing our cost structure.  We exceeded our savings target by achieving a run-rate cost reduction of $900 million per year and sustaining capital reduction of $300 million per year by the end of 2023.  As such, we are now targeting a run-rate cost reduction of $1.1 billion per year by the end of 2024, while maintaining our sustaining capital reduction of $300 million per year in 2024. • Maintain Financial Strength and Flexibility – During 2023, we successfully reduced our sustaining capital spend and used available cash and proceeds from debt offerings to increase our economic interest in DCP LP, repurchase shares of our common stock, pay dividends on our common stock, fund capital expenditures and investments and repay a portion of DCP LP’s debt. • Drive Disciplined Growth and Returns – A disciplined capital allocation process ensures we invest in projects that are expected to generate competitive returns.  Our strategy remains focused on investing growth capital in the Midstream and Chemicals segments.  We are also investing in capital-efficient renewable fuels projects to advance a lower-carbon future.  In 2024, we have budgeted $2.2 billion in capital expenditures and investments, which includes $1.3 billion of growth capital. DCP Midstream, LLC and Gray Oak Holdings LLC Merger (DCP Midstream Merger) On August 17, 2022, we announced a realignment of our economic and governance interests in DCP LP and Gray Oak Pipeline, LLC (Gray Oak Pipeline) resulting from the merger of DCP Midstream, LLC (DCP Midstream) and Gray Oak Holdings LLC (Gray Oak Holdings).  In connection with the DCP Midstream Merger, we were delegated DCP Midstream’s governance rights over DCP LP and its general partner entities, referred to as DCP Midstream Class A Segment, and our indirect economic interest in DCP LP increased to 43.3%. Starting on August 18, 2022, our financial results reflect the consolidation of DCP Midstream Class A Segment, as well as DCP Sand Hills Pipeline, LLC (DCP Sand Hills) and DCP Southern Hills Pipeline, LLC (DCP Southern Hills).  Since the DCP Midstream Merger, we have taken steps to integrate the operations and personnel of DCP Midstream Class A Segment to enable the capture of commercial and operational synergies. DCP Midstream, LP Merger (DCP LP Merger) On June 15, 2023, we completed the acquisition of all publicly held common units of DCP LP pursuant to the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of January 5, 2023 (DCP LP Merger Agreement).  The DCP LP Merger Agreement was entered into with DCP LP, its subsidiaries and its general partner entities, pursuant to which one of our wholly owned subsidiaries merged with and into DCP LP, with DCP LP surviving as a Delaware limited partnership.  Under the terms of the DCP LP Merger Agreement, at the effective time of the DCP LP Merger, each publicly held common unit representing a limited partner interest in DCP LP (other than the common units owned by DCP Midstream and its subsidiaries) issued and outstanding as of immediately prior to the effective time was converted into the right to receive $41.75 per common unit in cash.  The DCP LP Merger increased our aggregate direct and indirect economic interest in DCP LP from 43.3% to 86.8%. See Note 3—DCP Midstream, LLC and DCP Midstream, LP Mergers, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information on the DCP Midstream and DCP LP Mergers. 43 Business Environment The Midstream segment includes our Transportation and NGL businesses.  Our Transportation business contains fee-based operations not directly exposed to commodity price risk.  Our NGL business, including DCP Midstream Class A Segment, DCP Sand Hills and DCP Southern Hills from August 18, 2022, forward, contains both fee-based operations and operations directly impacted by NGL and natural gas prices.  During 2023, NGL and natural gas prices decreased, compared with 2022, as the result of increased production. The Chemicals segment consists of our 50% equity investment in Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC (CPChem).  The chemicals and plastics industry is mainly a commodity-based industry where the margins for key products are based on supply and demand, as well as cost factors.  Compared with 2022, the benchmark high-density polyethylene chain margin decreased in 2023, due to lower polyethylene sales prices as a result of industry oversupply driven by recent capacity additions. Our Refining segment results are driven by several factors, including market crack spreads, refinery throughput, feedstock costs, product yields, turnaround activity, and other operating costs.  Market crack spreads are used as indicators of refining margins and measure the difference between market prices for refined petroleum products and crude oil.  The composite 3:2:1 market crack spread for our business decreased to an average of $28.37 per barrel during 2023, from an average of $34.26 per barrel in 2022.  The decrease in the composite market crack spread was primarily driven by lower global prices for gasoline and distillates reflecting reduced refining costs due to lower natural gas prices.  While the composite market crack spread fell in 2023, from the highest levels in at least a decade during 2022, it remains well above the five-year and 10-year average levels.  The price of U.S. benchmark crude oil, West Texas Intermediate (WTI) at Cushing, Oklahoma, decreased to an average of $77.69 per barrel during 2023, from an average of $94.44 per barrel in 2022.  The decrease in crude oil prices was primarily driven by increased production in the United States and other countries outside of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). Results for our M&S segment depend largely on marketing fuel and lubricant margins and sales volumes of our refined petroleum products.  While marketing fuel and lubricant margins are primarily driven by market factors, largely determined by the relationship between supply and demand, marketing fuel margins, in particular, are influenced by trends in spot prices, and where applicable, retail prices for refined petroleum products in the regions and countries where we operate. 44 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our business segment and consolidated results reflect the consolidation of DCP Midstream Class A Segment, DCP Sand Hills and DCP Southern Hills, in connection with the DCP Midstream Merger, from August 18, 2022, forward.  See Note 3—DCP Midstream, LLC and DCP Midstream, LP Mergers, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding the DCP Midstream Merger. Consolidated Results A summary of income before income taxes by business segment with a reconciliation to net income attributable to Phillips 66 follows: 2023 vs. 2022 Net income attributable to Phillips 66 for the year ended December 31, 2023, was $7,015 million, compared with $11,024 million for the year ended December 31, 2022.  The decrease in 2023 was primarily due to the recognition of an aggregate before-tax gain of $3,013 million in 2022 in our Midstream segment in connection with the DCP Midstream Merger and a decline in realized refining margins, partially offset by a decrease in income tax expense and lower unrealized investment losses related to our investment in NOVONIX Limited (NOVONIX). 2022 vs. 2021 Net income attributable to Phillips 66 for the year ended December 31, 2022, was $11,024 million, compared with $1,317 million for the year ended December 31, 2021.  The improvement was primarily due to higher realized refining margins, an aggregate before-tax gain of $3,013 million recognized in our Midstream segment in connection with the DCP Midstream Merger, lower impairments in the Refining segment, and improved international marketing fuel margins.  These improvements were partially offset by an increase in income tax expense, lower equity earnings from CPChem, and an unrealized decrease in the fair value of our investment in NOVONIX. See the “Segment Results” section for additional information on our segment results and Note 23—Income Taxes, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information on income taxes.  See also Note 3—DCP Midstream, LLC and DCP Midstream, LP Mergers, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding the DCP Midstream Merger. 45 Statement of Income Analysis 2023 vs. 2022 Sales and other operating revenues and purchased crude oil and products decreased 13% and 15%, respectively, in 2023.  These decreases were mainly due to lower prices for refined petroleum products, crude oil and NGL. Equity in earnings of affiliates decreased 32% in 2023, resulting from lower equity earnings from DCP Midstream, DCP Sand Hills, DCP Southern Hills and Gray Oak Pipeline due to the DCP Midstream Merger in August 2022, as well as decreased equity earnings from WRB Refining LP (WRB) and CPChem primarily due to lower margins, partially offset by lower operating costs.  See Note 3—DCP Midstream, LLC and DCP Midstream, LP Mergers, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, and the Chemicals segment analysis in the “Segment Results” section for additional information. Net gain on dispositions increased $108 million in 2023, primarily due to a before-tax gain recognized in the Midstream segment in the third quarter of 2023 associated with the sale of our 25% ownership interest in the South Texas Gateway Terminal. Other income decreased $2,378 million in 2023, primarily due to an aggregate before-tax gain of $3,013 million recognized in our Midstream segment in connection with the DCP Midstream Merger in August 2022.  The decrease was partially offset by lower unrealized investment losses on our investment in NOVONIX in 2023 compared to 2022, and higher interest income.  See Note 4—Business Combinations, and Note 18—Fair Value Measurements, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information on the aggregate before-tax gain.  See Note 8—Investments, Loans and Long-Term Receivables, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding our investment in NOVONIX. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 16% in 2023, mainly driven by the consolidation of DCP Midstream Class A Segment, DCP Sand Hills and DCP Southern Hills starting in August 2022 and higher costs associated with our business transformation.  These increases were partially offset by lower selling expenses due to decreased refined petroleum product prices.  See Note 31—Restructuring, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding restructuring costs. Depreciation and amortization increased 21% in 2023, primarily due to additional depreciation and amortization related to assets acquired as a result of consolidating DCP Midstream Class A Segment, DCP Southern Hills and DCP Sand Hills starting in August 2022. Taxes other than income taxes increased 33% in 2023, primarily due to consolidating DCP Midstream Class A Segment, DCP Sand Hills and DCP Southern Hills starting in August 2022 and an increase in environmental taxes. Interest and debt expense increased 45% in 2023, primarily driven by higher interest expense as a result of consolidating DCP Midstream Class A Segment, new debt issuances in 2023 related to the DCP LP Merger, and a $53 million before-tax loss on the early redemption of DCP LP’s 5.850% junior subordinated notes. Income tax expense decreased 31% in 2023, primarily due to lower income before income taxes.  See Note 23—Income Taxes, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for more information regarding our income taxes. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests decreased 39% in 2023.  The decrease reflects the impacts of the DCP LP Merger in June 2023, and the consolidation of DCP Midstream Class A Segment, DCP Sand Hills and DCP Southern Hills and the derecognition of a noncontrolling interest related to Gray Oak Holdings as a result of the DCP Midstream Merger in August 2022.  The decrease also reflects the impact of the merger between us and Phillips 66 Partners in March 2022.  See Note 3—DCP Midstream, LLC and DCP Midstream, LP Mergers, and Note 30—Phillips 66 Partners LP, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information on the DCP Midstream Merger and the Phillips 66 Partners merger, respectively. 46 2022 vs. 2021 Sales and other operating revenues and purchased crude oil and products increased 52% and 47%, respectively, in 2022.  These increases were mainly due to higher prices for refined petroleum products, crude oil and NGL. Other income increased $2,283 million in 2022, primarily due to an aggregate before-tax gain of $3,013 million recognized in our Midstream segment in connection with the DCP Midstream Merger.  The impact of this gain was partially offset by an unrealized investment loss on our investment in NOVONIX, compared with an unrealized gain in 2021.  See Note 4—Business Combinations, and Note 18—Fair Value Measurements, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information on the aggregate before-tax gain.  See Note 8—Investments, Loans and Long-Term Receivables, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding our investment in NOVONIX. Operating expenses increased 19% in 2022, mainly attributable to higher utility costs driven by increased natural gas and power prices and higher turnaround and other maintenance expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 24% in 2022, primarily driven by higher employee-related expenses, restructuring costs related to our business transformation and increased selling expenses driven by rising refined petroleum product prices. Impairments decreased 96% in 2022, primarily due to a before-tax impairment of $1,298 million recorded in the third quarter of 2021 associated with our Alliance Refinery.  See Note 11—Impairments, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information. Taxes other than income taxes increased 29% in 2022, primarily due to tax credits received from renewable diesel blending activity at our San Francisco Refinery in the third quarter of 2021, as well as higher property and other taxes. Income tax expense increased $3,102 million in 2022 primarily due to improved results.  See Note 23—Income Taxes, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for more information regarding our income taxes. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests increased 32% in 2022.  The increase was primarily driven by the consolidation of DCP Midstream Class A Segment, DCP Sand Hills and DCP Southern Hills as part of the DCP Midstream Merger in August 2022, which resulted in us reflecting the additional noncontrolling interests owned by the public common and preferred unitholders of DCP LP, as well as Enbridge’s noncontrolling interest in DCP Midstream Class A Segment, on our consolidated statement of income.  The increase was partially offset by a decrease due to the merger between us and Phillips 66 Partners in March 2022 that resulted in Phillips 66 Partners becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of Phillips 66.  See Note 3—DCP Midstream, LLC and DCP Midstream, LP Mergers, and Note 30—Phillips 66 Partners LP, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information on the DCP Midstream Merger and the Phillips 66 Partners merger, respectively. 47 Segment Results Midstream * Pipelines represent the sum of volumes transported through each separately tariffed consolidated pipeline segment, excluding NGL pipelines. * * Includes 100% of DCP Midstream Class A Segment’s volumes from August 18, 2022, forward. *** Includes 100% of DCP Midstream Class A Segment’s volumes. * Based on index prices from the Mont Belvieu market hub, which are weighted by NGL component mix. The Midstream segment provides crude oil and refined petroleum product transportation, terminaling and processing services; NGL production, transportation, storage, fractionation, processing and marketing services; natural gas gathering, compressing, treating, processing, storage, transportation and marketing services; and condensate recovery.  These activities are mainly in the United States.  This segment also includes our investment in NOVONIX. In connection with the DCP Midstream Merger, the results of our Transportation business reflect a decrease in our indirect economic interest in Gray Oak Pipeline to 6.5% from August 18, 2022, forward.  Prior to August 18, 2022, the Transportation results presented in the table above reflect Gray Oak Holdings’ 65% economic interest in Gray Oak Pipeline.  In addition, the results of our NGL and Other business include the consolidated results of DCP Midstream Class A Segment, DCP Sand Hills and DCP Southern Hills from August 18, 2022, forward.  Prior to August 18, 2022, our investments in DCP Midstream, DCP Sand Hills and DCP Southern Hills were accounted for using the equity method and equity earnings from these investments are included in the results of our NGL and Other business. In the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, see Note 3—DCP Midstream, LLC and DCP Midstream, LP Mergers, for additional information regarding the DCP Midstream Merger. 48 2023 vs. 2022 Results from our Midstream segment decreased $1,960 million in 2023, compared with 2022. Results from our Transportation business increased $134 million in 2023, compared with 2022.  The increase in 2023 was primarily due to higher volumes and tariffs, as well as decreased operating costs, partially offset by lower before-tax gains on sales and transfers of interests in equity affiliates.  In August 2023, we recognized a $101 million before-tax gain on the sale of our 25% ownership interest in the South Texas Gateway Terminal, while in August 2022, we recognized a before-tax gain of $182 million related to the transfer of an indirect economic interest in Gray Oak Pipeline as part of the DCP Midstream Merger. Results from our NGL and Other business decreased $2,497 million in 2023, compared with 2022.  The decrease was primarily due to an aggregate before-tax gain of $2,831 million recognized in the third quarter of 2022 from remeasuring our previously held equity investments in DCP Midstream, DCP Sand Hills and DCP Southern Hills to their fair values in connection with the DCP Midstream Merger.  The decrease was partially offset by the consolidation of DCP Midstream Class A Segment, DCP Sand Hills and DCP Southern Hills from August 18, 2022, forward, as well as increased fractionation volumes at the Sweeny Hub reflecting the startup of Frac 4 in October 2022. The fair value of our investment in NOVONIX declined by $39 million in 2023, compared with a decline of $442 million in 2022. In the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, see Note 8—Investments, Loans and Long-Term Receivables, for additional information on our investment in NOVONIX and the before-tax gain on the sale of our 25% ownership interest in the South Texas Gateway Terminal in August 2023.  See also Note 4—Business Combinations, and Note 18—Fair Value Measurements, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding the before-tax gains recorded in connection with the DCP Midstream Merger. See the “Executive Overview and Business Environment” section for information on market factors impacting 2023 results. 2022 vs. 2021 Midstream’s results increased $3,234 million in 2022, compared with 2021. Results from our Transportation business increased $498 million in 2022, compared with 2021.  The increase was primarily due to a before-tax impairment of $198 million recorded in the first quarter of 2021 related to Phillips 66 Partners’ decision to exit the Liberty Pipeline project, a before-tax gain of $182 million from the transfer of a 35.75% indirect economic interest in Gray Oak Pipeline to our co-venturer as part of the DCP Midstream Merger, and lower depreciation and amortization expense from logistic assets that were retired in the fourth quarter of 2021 as part of the planned conversion of the Alliance Refinery to a terminal. Results from our NGL and Other business increased $3,548 million in 2022, compared with 2021.  The increase was primarily due to before-tax gains totaling $2,831 million recognized from remeasuring our previously held equity investments in DCP Midstream, DCP Sand Hills and DCP Southern Hills to their fair values in connection with the DCP Midstream Merger.  Additionally, the increased results reflect the consolidation of DCP Midstream Class A Segment, DCP Sand Hills and DCP Southern Hills from August 18, 2022, forward, as well as improved Sweeny Hub results. In 2022, the fair value of our investment in NOVONIX decreased by $442 million compared with an increase of $370 million in 2021.  We acquired this investment in September 2021. See Note 11—Impairments, and Note 8—Investments, Loans and Long-Term Receivables, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information on impairments and our investment in NOVONIX, respectively.  See Note 4—Business Combinations, and Note 18—Fair Value Measurements, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding the before-tax gains recorded in connection with the DCP Midstream Merger. 49 Chemicals The Chemicals segment consists of our 50% interest in CPChem, which we account for under the equity method.  CPChem uses NGL and other feedstocks to produce petrochemicals.  These products are then marketed and sold or used as feedstocks to produce plastics and other chemicals.  CPChem produces and markets ethylene and other olefin products.  Ethylene produced is primarily consumed within CPChem for the production of polyethylene, normal alpha olefins and polyethylene pipe.  CPChem manufactures and markets aromatics and styrenics products, such as benzene, cyclohexane, styrene and polystyrene, as well as manufactures and/or markets a variety of specialty chemical products.  Unless otherwise noted, amounts referenced below reflect our net 50% interest in CPChem. 2023 vs. 2022 Results from the Chemicals segment decreased $256 million in 2023, compared with 2022.  The decrease was primarily due to lower margins driven by decreased sales prices, partially offset by lower utility costs due to a decline in natural gas prices. See the “Executive Overview and Business Environment” section for information on market factors impacting CPChem’s 2023 results. 2022 vs. 2021 Results from the Chemicals segment decreased $988 million in 2022, compared with 2021.  The decrease was primarily due to lower margins driven by decreased sales prices, higher feedstock and utility costs, as well as decreased results from CPChem’s equity affiliates. 50 Refining * See the “Non-GAAP Reconciliations” section for a reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to the most directly comparable measure under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP), income (loss) before income taxes per barrel. 51 Our Refining segment refines crude oil and other feedstocks into petroleum products, such as gasoline, distillates and aviation fuels, as well as renewable fuels.  This segment includes 12 refineries in the United States and Europe.  In the fourth quarter of 2021, we shut down our Alliance Refinery and converted it into a terminal. 2023 vs. 2022 Results from the Refining segment decreased $2,550 million in 2023, compared with 2022.  The decrease was primarily due to lower realized margins, partially offset by lower utility costs.  The decrease in realized margins was primarily driven by a decline in market crack spreads, partially offset by increased feedstock advantage and improved crude optimization benefits. Our worldwide refining crude oil capacity utilization rate was 92% and 90% in 2023 and 2022, respectively.  See the “Executive Overview and Business Environment” section for information on industry crack spreads and other market factors impacting this year’s results. 52 2022 vs. 2021 Results from the Refining segment increased $10,169 million in 2022, compared with 2021.  The improved results were primarily due to higher realized refining margins driven by improved market crack spreads, partially offset by higher operating costs.  In addition, 2021 included a before-tax impairment of $1,288 million associated with our Alliance Refinery.  See Note 11—Impairments, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding this impairment. Our worldwide refining crude oil capacity utilization rate was 90% and 84% in 2022 and 2021, respectively.  The increase in 2022 was primarily driven by improved demand for refined petroleum products due to supply constraints caused by the conflict between Russia and Ukraine and easing of restrictions from the COVID-19 pandemic. 53 Marketing and Specialties The M&S segment purchases for resale and markets refined petroleum products, such as gasoline, distillates and aviation fuels, as well as renewable fuels, mainly in the United States and Europe.  In addition, this segment includes the manufacturing and marketing of base oils and lubricants. 2023 vs. 2022 Before-tax income from the M&S segment decreased $267 million in 2023, compared with 2022.  The decrease in 2023 was primarily driven by lower international realized marketing fuel margins and decreased equity earnings from affiliates, partially offset by higher U.S. realized marketing fuel margins. See the “Executive Overview and Business Environment” section for information on marketing fuel margins and other market factors impacting 2023 results. 2022 vs. 2021 Before-tax income from the M&S segment increased $679 million in 2022, compared with 2021.  The increase in 2022 was primarily driven by improved realized international marketing fuel margins and higher results from our specialty lubricants and other businesses. 54 Corporate and Other Net interest expense consists of interest and financing expense, net of interest income and capitalized interest.  Corporate overhead and other includes general and administrative expenses, technology costs, environmental costs associated with sites no longer in operation, restructuring costs related to our business transformation, foreign currency transaction gains and losses, and other costs not directly associated with an operating segment. 2023 vs. 2022 Net interest expense increased $91 million in 2023, compared with 2022, primarily driven by higher interest expense as a result of consolidating DCP Midstream Class A Segment, new debt issuances in 2023 related to the DCP LP Merger and a $53 million before-tax loss on the early redemption of DCP LP’s 5.850% junior subordinated notes.  The increase in interest expense in 2023 was partially offset by increased interest income.  See Note 14—Debt, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding debt. Corporate overhead and other increased $46 million in 2023, compared with 2022, primarily due to higher costs related to our business transformation.  See Note 31—Restructuring, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding restructuring costs. 2022 vs. 2021 Net interest expense decreased $46 million in 2022, compared with 2021, primarily driven by increased interest income, partially offset by increased interest expense as a result of consolidating DCP Midstream Class A Segment from August 18, 2022, forward.  See Note 14—Debt, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding debt. Corporate overhead and other increased $241 million in 2022, compared with 2021.  The increase was primarily due to restructuring costs associated with our business transformation for consulting fees, severance and an impairment related to assets held for sale, as well as higher employee related expenses.  See Note 28—Segment Disclosures and Related Information, and Note 31—Restructuring, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding restructuring costs. 55 CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY Financial Indicators To meet our short- and long-term liquidity requirements, we use a variety of funding sources but rely primarily on cash generated from operating activities and debt financing.  During 2023, we generated $7 billion in cash from operations and received proceeds from debt offerings, net of debt repayments, of $2 billion.  We used available cash primarily to repurchase noncontrolling interests in DCP LP for $4.1 billion, repurchase shares of our common stock for $4 billion, fund capital expenditures and investments of $2.4 billion, and pay dividends on our common stock of $1.9 billion.  During 2023, cash and cash equivalents decreased $2.8 billion to $3.3 billion. Significant Sources of Capital Operating Activities During 2023, cash generated by operating activities was $7 billion, a $3.8 billion decrease compared with 2022.  The decrease was primarily due to lower realized refining margins, working capital impacts, reduced operating distributions from equity affiliates, completion of long-term crude oil exchanges and higher contributions to our pension plans. During 2022, cash generated by operating activities was $10.8 billion, a $4.8 billion increase compared with 2021.  The increase was primarily due to higher earnings resulting from improved realized refining margins, partially offset by working capital impacts and lower operating distributions from equity affiliates. Our short- and long-term operating cash flows are highly dependent upon refining and marketing margins, NGL prices and chemicals margins.  Prices and margins in our industry are typically volatile, and are driven by market conditions over which we have little or no control.  Absent other mitigating factors, as these prices and margins fluctuate, we would expect a corresponding change in our operating cash flows. The level and quality of output from our refineries also impacts our cash flows.  Factors such as operating efficiency, maintenance turnarounds, market conditions, feedstock availability, and weather conditions can affect output.  We actively manage the operations of our refineries, and any variability in their operations typically has not been as significant to cash flows as that caused by margins and prices.  Our worldwide refining crude oil capacity utilization was 92%, 90% and 84% in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively.  Our worldwide refining clean product yield was 85%, 84% and 83% in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Equity Affiliate Operating Distributions Our operating cash flows are also impacted by distribution decisions made by our equity affiliates, including CPChem.  Over the three years ended December 31, 2023, our operating cash flows included aggregate distributions from our equity affiliates of $5.6 billion, including $2.2 billion from CPChem.  We cannot control the amount of future dividends from equity affiliates; therefore, future dividend payments by these equity affiliates are not assured. 56 Tax Refunds We received a U.S. federal income tax refund of $1.1 billion in the second quarter of 2021. Asset Dispositions On August 1, 2023, we sold our 25% ownership interest in the South Texas Gateway Terminal for approximately $275 million. On February 28, 2023, we closed on the sale of the Belle Chasse Terminal for approximately $76 million. Debt Issuances On March 29, 2023, Phillips 66 Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Phillips 66, issued $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes consisting of: • $750 million aggregate principal amount of 4.950% Senior Notes due December 2027 (2027 Notes). • $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.300% Senior Notes due June 2033 (2033 Notes). The 2027 Notes and 2033 Notes (collectively, the Notes) are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Phillips 66.  Interest on the 2027 Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year and commenced on December 1, 2023.  Interest on the 2033 Notes is payable semi-annually on June 30 and December 30 of each year and commenced on December 30, 2023. Term Loan Agreement On March 27, 2023, Phillips 66 Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Phillips 66, entered into a $1.5 billion delayed draw term loan agreement guaranteed by Phillips 66 (the Term Loan Agreement).  The Term Loan Agreement provides for a single borrowing during a 90-day period commencing on the closing date, which borrowing was contingent upon the completion of the DCP LP Merger.  The Term Loan Agreement contains customary covenants similar to those contained in our revolving credit agreement, including a maximum consolidated net debt-to-capitalization ratio of 65% as of the last day of each fiscal quarter.  The Term Loan Agreement has customary events of default, such as nonpayment of principal when due; nonpayment of interest, fees or other amounts after grace periods; and violation of covenants.  We may at any time prepay outstanding borrowings under the Term Loan Agreement, in whole or in part, without premium or penalty.  Outstanding borrowings under the Term Loan Agreement bear interest at either: (a) the adjusted term Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) in effect from time to time plus the applicable margin; or (b) the reference rate plus the applicable margin, as defined in the Term Loan Agreement.  At December 31, 2023, $1.25 billion was borrowed under the Term Loan Agreement, which matures in June 2026.  See Note 3—DCP Midstream, LLC and DCP Midstream, LP Mergers, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding the DCP LP Merger. Related Party Advance Term Loan Agreements Borrowings under related party Advance Term Loan agreements with WRB increased from $25 million at December 31, 2022, to $290 million at December 31, 2023.  Borrowings under these agreements are due in 2035 and 2038 and bear interest at a floating rate based on the adjusted term SOFR plus an applicable margin, payable on the last day of each month. 57 Credit Facilities and Commercial Paper Phillips 66 and Phillips 66 Company On June 23, 2022, we entered into a $5 billion revolving credit facility (the Facility) with Phillips 66 Company as the borrower and Phillips 66 as the guarantor and a scheduled maturity date of June 22, 2027.  The Facility replaced our previous $5 billion revolving credit facility with Phillips 66 as the borrower and Phillips 66 Company as the guarantor.  The Facility contains usual and customary covenants that are similar to the previous revolving credit facility, including a maximum consolidated net debt-to-capitalization ratio of 65% as of the last day of each fiscal quarter.  We have the option to increase the overall capacity to $6 billion, subject to certain conditions.  We also have the option to extend the scheduled maturity of the Facility for up to two additional one-year terms, subject to, among other things, the consent of the lenders holding the majority of the commitments and of each lender extending its commitment.  Outstanding borrowings under the Facility bear interest at either (a) the adjusted term SOFR (as described in the Facility) in effect from time to time plus the applicable margin; or (b) the reference rate (as described in the Facility) plus the applicable margin.  The Facility also provides for customary fees, including commitment fees.  The pricing levels for the commitment fees and interest-rate margins are determined based on the ratings in effect for our senior unsecured long-term debt from time to time.  We may at any time prepay outstanding borrowings, in whole or in part, without premium or penalty.  At December 31, 2023 and 2022, no amount had been drawn under the Facility. Phillips 66 also has a $5 billion uncommitted commercial paper program for short-term working capital needs that is supported by the Facility.  Commercial paper maturities are contractually limited to 365 days.  At December 31, 2023 and 2022, no borrowings were outstanding under the program. Phillips 66 Partners In connection with entering into the Facility, we terminated Phillips 66 Partners’ $750 million revolving credit facility. DCP Midstream Class A Segment DCP LP has a credit facility under its amended credit agreement (the Credit Agreement), with a borrowing capacity of up to $1.4 billion that matures on March 18, 2027.  The Credit Agreement grants DCP LP the option to increase the revolving loan commitment by an aggregate principal amount of up to $500 million and to extend the term for up to two additional one-year periods, subject to requisite lender approval.  Indebtedness under the Credit Agreement bears interest at either: (a) an adjusted SOFR (as described in the Credit Agreement) plus the applicable margin; or (b) the base rate (as described in the Credit Agreement) plus the applicable margin.  The Credit Agreement also provides for customary fees, including commitment fees.  The cost of borrowing under the Credit Agreement is determined by a ratings-based pricing grid based on DCP LP’s credit rating.  At December 31, 2023, DCP LP had $25 million in borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement.  At December 31, 2022, DCP LP had no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement.  At December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, respectively, $2 million and $10 million in letters of credit had been issued that are supported by the Credit Agreement. DCP LP has an accounts receivable securitization facility (the Securitization Facility) that provides for up to $350 million of borrowing capacity through August 2024 at an adjusted SOFR and includes an uncommitted option to increase the total commitments under the Securitization Facility by up to an additional $400 million.  Under the Securitization Facility, certain of DCP LP’s wholly owned subsidiaries sell or contribute receivables to another of DCP LP’s consolidated subsidiaries, DCP Receivables LLC, a bankruptcy-remote special purpose entity created for the sole purpose of the Securitization Facility.  At December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022, respectively, $350 million and $40 million of borrowings were outstanding under the Securitization Facility, which are secured by accounts receivable at DCP Receivables LLC. Total Committed Capacity Available At December 31, 2023, and 2022, we had approximately $6.4 billion and $6.7 billion, respectively, of total committed capacity available under the credit facilities described above. 58 Other Debt Issuances and Financings Senior Unsecured Notes In November 2021, Phillips 66 closed its public offering of $1 billion aggregate principal amount of 3.300% senior unsecured notes due 2052.  Interest on the Senior Notes due 2052 is payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 of each year, commencing on March 15, 2022.  Proceeds received from the public offering were $982 million, net of underwriters’ discounts and commissions, as well as debt issuance costs.  In December 2021, Phillips 66 used the proceeds from this offering, together with cash on hand, to repay $1 billion in aggregate principal amount of its $2 billion 4.300% Senior Notes due April 2022. Phillips 66 Partners Term Loan In April 2021, Phillips 66 Partners entered into a $450 million term loan agreement with a one-year term and borrowed the full amount.  The term loan agreement was repaid upon maturity in April 2022 without premium or penalty. Phillips 66 Availability of Debt Financing We have an A3 credit rating, with a stable outlook, from Moody’s Investors Service and a BBB+ credit rating, with a stable outlook, from Standard & Poor’s.  These investment grade ratings have served to lower our borrowing costs and facilitate access to a variety of lenders.  We do not have any ratings triggers on any of our corporate debt that would cause an automatic default, and thereby impact our access to liquidity, in the event of a rating downgrade by one or both rating agencies.  Failure to maintain investment grade ratings could prohibit us from accessing the commercial paper market, although we would expect to be able to access funds under our liquidity facilities mentioned above. DCP LP Availability of Debt Financing DCP LP has a BBB+ credit rating, with a stable outlook, from Standard and Poor’s and a Baa3 credit rating, with a positive outlook, from Moody’s Investors Service.  These ratings facilitate DCP LP’s access to a variety of lenders.  DCP LP does not have any ratings triggers on any of its corporate debt that would cause an automatic default, and thereby impact access to liquidity, in the event of a rating downgrade by one or more rating agencies. 59 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Lease Residual Value Guarantees Under the operating lease agreement for our headquarters facility in Houston, Texas, we have the option, at the end of the lease term in September 2025, to request to renew the lease, purchase the facility or assist the lessor in marketing it for resale.  We have a residual value guarantee associated with the operating lease agreement with a maximum potential future exposure of $514 million at December 31, 2023.  We also have residual value guarantees associated with railcar, airplane and truck leases with maximum potential future exposures totaling $168 million.  These leases have remaining terms of one to ten years. Dakota Access and Energy Transfer Crude Oil Company, LLC (ETCO) In 2020, the trial court presiding over litigation brought by the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe (the Tribe) ordered the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) addressing an easement under Lake Oahe in North Dakota.  The trial court later vacated the easement.  Although the easement is vacated, the USACE has no plans to stop pipeline operations while it proceeds with the EIS, and the Tribe’s request for a shutdown was denied in May 2021.  In June 2021, the trial court dismissed the litigation entirely. Once the EIS is completed, new litigation or challenges may be filed. In February 2022, the U.S. Supreme Court (the Court) denied Dakota Access’ writ of certiorari requesting the Court to review the trial court’s decision to order the EIS and vacate the easement.  Therefore, the requirement to prepare the EIS stood.  Also in February 2022, the Tribe withdrew as a cooperating agency, causing the USACE to halt the EIS process while the USACE engaged with the Tribe on their reasons for withdrawing. The draft EIS process resumed in August 2022, and in September 2023 the USACE published its draft EIS for public comment.  The USACE identified five potential outcomes, but did not indicate which one it preferred.  The options comprise two “no action” alternatives where the USACE would deny an easement to Dakota Access and require it to shut down the pipeline and either remove the pipe from under Lake Oahe or allow the pipeline to be abandoned-in-place under the lake.  The USACE also identified three “action” alternatives.  Two of them contemplate that the USACE would reissue the easement to Dakota Access under essentially the same terms as 2017 with either the same or a larger volume of oil allowed through the pipeline while the third alternative would require decommissioning the current pipeline and construction of a new line 39 miles upstream from the current location.  The USACE has not indicated when it will issue its final decision. Dakota Access and ETCO have guaranteed repayment of senior unsecured notes issued by a wholly owned subsidiary of Dakota Access in March 2019.  On April 1, 2022, Dakota Access’ wholly owned subsidiary repaid $650 million aggregate principal amount of its outstanding senior notes upon maturity.  We funded our 25% share, or $163 million, with a capital contribution of $89 million in March 2022 and $74 million of distributions we elected not to receive from Dakota Access in the first quarter of 2022.  At December 31, 2023, the aggregate principal amount outstanding of Dakota Access’ senior unsecured notes was $1.85 billion. In conjunction with the notes offering, Phillips 66 Partners, now a wholly owned subsidiary of Phillips 66, and its co-venturers in Dakota Access also provided a Contingent Equity Contribution Undertaking (CECU).  Under the CECU, the co-venturers may be severally required to make proportionate equity contributions to Dakota Access if there is an unfavorable final judgment in the above-mentioned ongoing litigation.  At December 31, 2023, our 25% share of the maximum potential equity contributions under the CECU was approximately $467 million. If the pipeline is required to cease operations, it may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.  Should operations cease and Dakota Access and ETCO not have sufficient funds to pay its expenses, we also could be required to support our 25% share of the ongoing expenses, including scheduled interest payments on the notes of approximately $20 million annually, in addition to the potential obligations under the CECU at December 31, 2023. See Note 15—Guarantees, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding guarantees. 60 Capital Requirements Capital Expenditures and Investments For information about our capital expenditures and investments, see the “Capital Spending” section below. Debt Financing Our debt balance at December 31, 2023, was $19.4 billion and our total debt-to-capital ratio was 38%.  See Note 14—Debt, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for our annual debt maturities over the next five years and more information on debt repayments. 2023 Repayments On May 19, 2023, DCP LP redeemed its 5.850% junior subordinated notes due May 2043 with an aggregate principal amount outstanding of $550 million. On March 15, 2023, DCP LP repaid its 3.875% senior unsecured notes due March 2023 with an aggregate principal amount of $500 million. 2022 Repayments In December 2022, Phillips 66 repaid its 3.700% senior notes due April 2023 with an aggregate principal amount of $500 million. After our consolidation of DCP Midstream Class A Segment on August 17, 2022, DCP LP repaid $470 million of borrowings under its accounts receivable securitization and revolving credit facilities that were outstanding on the acquisition date. In April 2022, upon maturity, Phillips 66 repaid its 4.300% senior notes with an aggregate principal amount of $1 billion and Phillips 66 Partners repaid its $450 million term loan. Subsequent Repayment On February 15, 2024, upon maturity, Phillips 66 repaid its 0.900% senior notes due February 2024 with an aggregate principal amount of $800 million. Debt Exchange On May 5, 2022, Phillips 66 Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Phillips 66, completed offers to exchange (the Exchange Offers) all validly tendered notes of seven different series of notes issued by Phillips 66 Partners (collectively, the Old Notes), with an aggregate principal amount of approximately $3.5 billion, for notes issued by Phillips 66 Company (collectively, the New Notes).  The New Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Phillips 66 and rank equally with Phillips 66 Company’s other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness, and the guarantees rank equally with Phillips 66’s other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. Old Notes with an aggregate principal amount of approximately $3.2 billion were tendered in the Exchange Offers.  The New Notes have the same interest rates, interest payment dates and maturity dates as the Old Notes.  Holders that validly tendered before the end of the early participation period on April 19, 2022 (the Early Participation Date), received New Notes with an aggregate principal amount equivalent to the Old Notes, while holders that validly tendered after the Early Participation Date, but before the Expiration Date, received New Notes with an aggregate principal amount 3% less than the Old Notes.  Substantially all of the Old Notes exchanged were tendered during the Early Participation Period. DCP Midstream Merger On August 17, 2022, we and our co-venturer, Enbridge, agreed to merge DCP Midstream and Gray Oak Holdings with DCP Midstream as the surviving entity.  As part of the DCP Midstream Merger, we made a net cash payment of $306 million. 61 DCP LP Merger On June 15, 2023, we completed the acquisition of all publicly held common units of DCP LP pursuant to the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of January 5, 2023 (DCP LP Merger Agreement).  The DCP LP Merger Agreement was entered into with DCP LP, its subsidiaries and its general partner entities, pursuant to which one of our wholly owned subsidiaries merged with and into DCP LP, with DCP LP surviving as a Delaware limited partnership.  Under the terms of the DCP LP Merger Agreement, at the effective time of the DCP LP Merger, each publicly held common unit representing a limited partner interest in DCP LP (other than the common units owned by DCP Midstream and its subsidiaries) issued and outstanding as of immediately prior to the effective time was converted into the right to receive $41.75 per common unit in cash.  The DCP LP Merger increased our aggregate direct and indirect economic interest in DCP LP from 43.3% to 86.8%. We paid approximately $3.8 billion in cash consideration, funded with a combination of available cash and proceeds from the offering of the Notes and borrowings under the Term Loan Agreement. See Note 3—DCP Midstream, LLC and DCP Midstream, LP Mergers, Note 14—Debt, and Note 29—DCP Midstream Class A Segment, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information. DCP LP Preferred Units On October 16, 2023, DCP LP redeemed its Series C preferred units with an aggregate liquidation preference of approximately $110 million. On June 15, 2023, DCP LP redeemed its Series B preferred units with an aggregate liquidation preference of approximately $161 million. In December 2022, DCP LP redeemed its Series A preferred units with an aggregate liquidation preference of $500 million. DCP LP Cash Distributions to Unitholders DCP LP’s partnership agreement requires it to distribute all available cash within 45 days after the end of each quarter.  For the year ended December 31, 2023, DCP LP made cash distributions of $125 million to common unitholders other than Phillips 66 and its subsidiaries and $15 million to preferred unitholders. See Note 29—DCP Midstream Class A Segment, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding the DCP LP public common unit acquisition and the redemptions of DCP LP’s Series B and Series C preferred units. Merger with Phillips 66 Partners On March 9, 2022, we completed a merger between us and Phillips 66 Partners.  The merger resulted in the acquisition of all limited partnership interests in Phillips 66 Partners not already owned by us in exchange for 41.8 million shares of Phillips 66 common stock issued from treasury stock.  Phillips 66 Partners common unitholders received 0.50 shares of Phillips 66 common stock for each outstanding Phillips 66 Partners common unit.  Phillips 66 Partners’ perpetual convertible preferred units were converted into common units at a premium to the original issuance price prior to being exchanged for Phillips 66 common stock.  Upon closing, Phillips 66 Partners became a wholly owned subsidiary of Phillips 66 and its common units are no longer publicly traded.  See Note 30—Phillips 66 Partners LP, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information on the merger transaction. Dividends On February 7, 2024, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $1.05 per common share.  The dividend is payable March 1, 2024, to holders of record at the close of business on February 20, 2024. 62 Share Repurchases On October 25, 2023, our Board of Directors approved a $5 billion increase to our share repurchase authorization.  Since the inception of our share repurchase program in 2012, our Board of Directors has authorized an aggregate of $25 billion of repurchases of our outstanding common stock, and we have repurchased 213.8 million shares at an aggregate cost of $18 billion.  In 2023, we repurchased 37.8 million shares at an aggregate cost of $4 billion.  Our share repurchase authorizations do not expire.  Any future share repurchases will be made at the discretion of management and will depend on various factors including our share price, results of operations, financial condition and cash required for future business plans.  Shares of stock repurchased are held as treasury shares. Employee Benefit Plan Contributions During the year ended December 31, 2023, we contributed $391 million to our U.S. pension plans and $20 million to our international pension plans. Marketing and Specialties Acquisition On August 1, 2023, we acquired a marketing business on the U.S. West Coast for total consideration of $269 million.  This acquisition supports the placement of renewable diesel that will be produced by the Rodeo renewable fuels facility. Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations primarily consist of purchase obligations, outstanding debt principal and interest obligations, operating and finance lease obligations, and asset retirement and environmental obligations. Purchase Obligations Our purchase obligations represent agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable, legally binding and specify all significant terms.  We expect these purchase obligations will be fulfilled with operating cash flows in the period when due.  At December 31, 2023, our purchase obligations totaled $84.8 billion, with $40.7 billion due within one year. The majority of our purchase obligations are market-based contracts, including exchanges and futures, for the purchase of commodities such as crude oil and NGL.  The commodities are used to supply our refineries and fractionators and optimize our supply chain.  At December 31, 2023, commodity purchase commitments with third parties and related parties were $44.2 billion and $23.9 billion, respectively.  The remaining purchase obligations mainly represent agreements to access and utilize the capacity of third-party equipment and facilities, including pipelines and product terminals, to transport, process, treat, and store products, and our net share of purchase commitments for materials and services for jointly owned facilities where we are the operator. Debt Principal and Interest Obligations As of December 31, 2023, our aggregate principal amount of outstanding debt was $19.5 billion, with $1.5 billion due within one year.  Our obligations for interest on the debt totaled $9.6 billion, with $870 million due within one year.  See Note 14—Debt, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information regarding our outstanding debt principal and interest obligations. Finance and Operating Lease Obligations See Note 20—Leases, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for information regarding our lease obligations and timing of our expected lease payments. Asset Retirement and Environmental Obligations See Note 12—Asset Retirement Obligations and Accrued Environmental Costs, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for information regarding asset retirement and environmental obligations. 63 Capital Spending Our capital expenditures and investments represent consolidated capital spending. * Includes 100% of DCP Midstream Class A Segment, DCP Sand Hills and DCP Southern Hills capital expenditures and investments from August 18, 2022, forward, net of acquired cash. ** Our share of joint ventures’ capital spending. Midstream Capital spending in our Midstream segment was $2.4 billion for the three-year period ended December 31, 2023, including: • Expansion of gathering systems in the DJ Basin and Permian Basin for DCP LP. • Continued development and expansion of fractionation capacity at our Sweeny Hub.  We completed and started operations of Sweeny Frac 4 in the third quarter of 2022. • Completion of construction on our C2G Pipeline, a new 16-inch ethane pipeline that connects our Clemens Caverns storage facility to petrochemical facilities in Gregory, Texas, near Corpus Christi. • Net cash payment in connection with the DCP Midstream Merger. • Investments in NOVONIX and a renewable feedstock processing plant. • Contributions to Dakota Access for a pipeline optimization project, including a contribution to fund our 25% share of Dakota Access’ debt repayment. • Spending associated with other return, reliability, and maintenance projects in our Transportation and NGL businesses. Chemicals During the three-year period ended December 31, 2023, CPChem had a self-funded capital program that totaled $4.2 billion on a 100% basis.  Capital spending was primarily for the development of petrochemical projects on the U.S. Gulf Coast and in the Middle East, as well as sustaining, debottlenecking and optimization projects on existing assets. 64 Refining Capital spending for the Refining segment during the three-year period ended December 31, 2023, was $3.1 billion, primarily for projects to enhance the yield of higher-value products, produce renewable fuels, and sustain the reliability and safety of our facilities.  Key projects funded during the three-year period included: • Installation of facilities to produce renewable fuels at our San Francisco and Humber refineries. • Installation of facilities to improve clean product yield at the Ponca City and Sweeny refineries, as well as the jointly owned Wood River Refinery. • Installation of facilities to improve product value at the Lake Charles Refinery. • Installation of facilities to improve utilization and product value at the jointly owned Borger refinery. Marketing and Specialties Capital spending for the M&S segment during the three-year period ended December 31, 2023, was primarily for the acquisition of a marketing business and a commercial fleet fueling business on the U.S. West Coast, both of which will provide further placement opportunities for renewable diesel production to end-use customers; investment in a retail marketing joint venture in the U.S. Central region; and the continued acquisition, development and enhancement of retail sites in Europe. Corporate and Other Capital spending for Corporate and Other during the three-year period ended December 31, 2023, was primarily related to information technology and facilities. 2024 Budget Our 2024 capital budget is $2.2 billion, including $923 million for sustaining capital and $1.3 billion for growth capital.  Our sustaining capital budget reflects $300 million of efficiencies as a result of our business transformation efforts.  Our projected $2.2 billion capital budget excludes our portion of planned capital spending by our major joint ventures CPChem and WRB totaling $1 billion. The Midstream capital budget of $985 million comprises a growth capital budget of $593 million focused on enhancing our integrated NGL wellhead-to-market value chain, as well as $250 million related to the repayment of our 25% share of Dakota Access’ debt due in 2024.  The Midstream capital budget also includes $392 million for sustaining projects, including DCP LP’s sustaining capital of $200 million.  In Refining, the total capital budget of $1.1 billion consists of $412 million for sustaining capital and $654 million for growth capital.  Refining’s growth capital includes completing the conversion of the San Francisco Refinery in Rodeo, California, into one of the world’s largest renewable fuels facilities.  Startup of the converted facility is expected in the first quarter of 2024.  Refining’s growth capital will also support high-return, low-capital projects to enhance market capture.  The M&S capital budget of $112 million reflects continued enhancement of our retail network, including energy transition opportunities.  The Corporate and Other capital budget of $68 million will primarily fund information technology projects. 65 Contingencies A number of lawsuits involving a variety of claims that arose in the ordinary course of business have been filed against us or are subject to indemnifications provided by us.  We also may be required to remove or mitigate the effects on the environment of the placement, storage, disposal or release of certain chemical, mineral and petroleum substances at various active and inactive sites.  We regularly assess the need for financial recognition or disclosure of these contingencies.  In the case of all known contingencies (other than those related to income taxes), we accrue a liability when the loss is probable and the amount is reasonably estimable.  If a range of amounts can be reasonably estimated and no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount, then the minimum of the range is accrued.  We do not reduce these liabilities for potential insurance or third-party recoveries.  If applicable, we accrue receivables for probable insurance or other third-party recoveries.  In the case of income tax-related contingencies, we use a cumulative probability-weighted loss accrual in cases where sustaining a tax position is uncertain. Based on currently available information, we believe it is remote that future costs related to known contingent liability exposures will exceed current accruals by an amount that would have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements.  As we learn new facts concerning contingencies, we reassess our position both with respect to accrued liabilities and other potential exposures.  Estimates particularly sensitive to future changes include contingent liabilities recorded for environmental remediation, tax and legal matters.  Estimated future environmental remediation costs are subject to change due to such factors as the uncertain magnitude of cleanup costs, the unknown time and extent of such remedial actions that may be required, and the determination of our liability in proportion to that of other potentially responsible parties.  Estimated future costs related to tax and legal matters are subject to change as events evolve and as additional information becomes available during the administrative and litigation processes. Legal and Tax Matters Our legal and tax matters are handled by our legal and tax organizations.  These organizations apply their knowledge, experience and professional judgment to the specific characteristics of our cases and uncertain tax positions.  We employ a litigation management process to manage and monitor the legal proceedings.  Our process facilitates the early evaluation and quantification of potential exposures in individual cases and enables the tracking of those cases that have been scheduled for trial and/or mediation.  Based on professional judgment and experience in using these litigation management tools and available information about current developments in all our cases, our legal organization regularly assesses the adequacy of current accruals and determines if adjustment of existing accruals, or establishment of new accruals, is required.  In the case of income tax-related contingencies, we monitor tax legislation and court decisions, the status of tax audits and the statute of limitations within which a taxing authority can assert a liability. 66 Environmental We are subject to numerous international, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations.  Among the most significant of these international and federal environmental laws and regulations are the: • U.S. Federal Clean Air Act, which governs air emissions. • U.S. Federal Clean Water Act, which governs discharges into bodies of water. • European Union Regulation for Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (EU REACH), which governs production, marketing and use of chemicals and the United Kingdom’s legislation for the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (UK REACH), which replaced EU REACH in the United Kingdom in 2021 following the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union (BREXIT). • U.S. Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), which imposes liability on generators, transporters and arrangers of hazardous substances at sites where hazardous substance releases have occurred or are threatening to occur. • U.S. Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), which governs the treatment, storage and disposal of solid waste. • U.S. Federal Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act (EPCRA), which requires facilities to report toxic chemical inventories to local emergency planning committees and response departments. • U.S. Federal Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (OPA90), under which owners and operators of onshore facilities and pipelines as well as owners and operators of vessels are liable for removal costs and damages that result from a discharge of crude oil into navigable waters of the United States. • European Union Trading Directive resulting in the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS), which uses a market-based mechanism to incentivize the reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, as well as the United Kingdom Emissions Trading Scheme (UK ETS), which replaced the EU ETS in the United Kingdom in 2021, following BREXIT. These laws and their implementing regulations set limits on emissions and, in the case of discharges to water, establish water quality limits.  They also, in most cases, require permits in association with new or modified operations.  These permits can require an applicant to collect substantial information in connection with the application process, which can be expensive and time consuming.  In addition, there can be delays associated with notice and comment periods and the agency’s processing of the application.  Many of the delays associated with the permitting process are beyond the control of the applicant. Other countries and many states where we operate also have, or are developing, similar environmental laws and regulations governing these same types of activities.  While similar, in some cases these regulations may impose additional, or more stringent, requirements that can add to the cost and difficulty of developing infrastructure and marketing and transporting products across state and international borders.  For example, in California the South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD) approved amendments to the Regional Clean Air Incentives Market (RECLAIM) that became effective in 2016, which required a phased reduction of nitrogen oxide emissions through 2022, affecting refineries in the Los Angeles metropolitan area.  In 2017, SCAQMD required additional nitrogen oxide emissions reductions through 2025 and, on November 5, 2021, promulgated new regulations to replace the RECLAIM program with a traditional command and control regulatory regime. The ultimate financial impact arising from environmental laws and regulations is neither clearly known nor easily determinable as new standards, such as air emissions standards, water quality standards and stricter fuel regulations, continue to evolve.  However, environmental laws and regulations, including those that may arise to address concerns about global climate change, are expected to continue to have an increasing impact on our operations in the United States and in other countries in which we operate.  Notable areas of potential impacts include air emissions compliance and remediation obligations in the United States. 67 An example of this in the fuels area is the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (EISA).  The law requires fuel producers and importers to provide additional renewable fuels for transportation motor fuels and stipulates a mix of various types.  Renewable Identification Numbers (RINs) form the mechanism used by the EPA to record compliance with the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS).  If an obligated party has more RINs than it needs to meet its obligation, it may sell or trade the extra RINs, or instead choose to “bank” them for use the following year.  We have met the EPA’s renewable volume obligations (RVO) to date.  These obligations have been met using a variety of operating and capital strategies.  We are also implementing advanced and different technologies to address projected future RVOs.  On June 21, 2023, the EPA finalized RVO for the 2023, 2024 and 2025 compliance years.  These standards increase cellulosic volumes, which reflect the EPA’s forecast for increasing compressed natural gas (CNG) and liquified natural gas (LNG) volumes derived from biogas.  In addition, the EPA increased total advanced biofuel volumes from the 5.63 billion gallons established for the 2022 compliance year to 7.33 billion gallons in 2025.  We may experience a decrease in demand for refined petroleum products and increased program costs if not fully recovered in the market.  This program continues to be the subject of possible Congressional review and re-promulgation in revised form, and the EPA’s final regulations establishing RVO requirements have been and continue to be subject to legal challenge, further creating uncertainty regarding RVO requirements. We are required to purchase RINs in the open market to satisfy the portion of our obligation under the RFS that is not fulfilled by blending renewable fuels into the motor fuels we produce.  For the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, we incurred expenses of $323 million, $478 million and $441 million, respectively, associated with our obligation to purchase RINs in the open market to comply with the RFS for our wholly owned refineries.  These expenses are included in the “Purchased crude oil and products” line item on our consolidated statement of income.  Our jointly owned refineries also incurred expenses associated with the purchase of RINs in the open market, of which our share was $389 million, $437 million and $351 million for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively.  These expenses are included in the “Equity in earnings of affiliates” line item on our consolidated statement of income.  The amount of these expenses and fluctuations between periods is primarily driven by the market price of RINs, refinery production, blending activities, and RVO requirements. We also are subject to certain laws and regulations relating to environmental remediation obligations associated with current and past operations.  Such laws and regulations include CERCLA and RCRA and their state equivalents.  Remediation obligations include cleanup responsibility arising from petroleum releases from underground storage tanks located at numerous previously and currently owned and/or operated petroleum-marketing outlets throughout the United States.  Federal and state laws require contamination caused by such underground storage tank releases be assessed and remediated to meet applicable standards.  In addition to other cleanup standards, many states have adopted cleanup criteria for methyl tertiary-butyl ether (MTBE) for soil and groundwater and both the EPA and many states may adopt cleanup standards for per- and poly-fluoroalkyl substances (PFAS), which may have been a constituent in certain firefighting foams used or stored at or near some of our facilities. At RCRA-permitted facilities, we are required to assess environmental conditions.  If conditions warrant, we may be required to remediate contamination caused by prior operations.  In contrast to CERCLA, which is often referred to as “Superfund,” the cost of corrective action activities under RCRA corrective action programs is typically borne solely by us.  We anticipate increased expenditures for RCRA remediation activities may be required, but such annual expenditures for the near term are not expected to vary significantly from the range of such expenditures we have experienced over the past few years.  Longer-term expenditures are subject to considerable uncertainty and may fluctuate significantly. We occasionally receive requests for information or notices of potential liability from the EPA and state environmental agencies alleging that we are a potentially responsible party under CERCLA or an equivalent state statute.  On occasion, we also have been made a party to cost recovery litigation by those agencies or by private parties.  These requests, notices and lawsuits assert potential liability for remediation costs at various sites that typically are not owned by us, but allegedly contain wastes attributable to our past operations.  At December 31, 2022, we reported that we had been notified of potential liability under CERCLA and comparable state laws at 22 sites within the United States.  During the last quarter of 2023, our legal organization approved the removal of one site following Department of Justice dismissal of Phillips 66, thus, leaving 21 unresolved sites with potential liability at December 31, 2023. 68 For the majority of Superfund sites, our potential liability will be less than the total site remediation costs because the percentage of waste attributable to us, versus that attributable to all other potentially responsible parties, is relatively low.  Although liability of those potentially responsible is generally joint and several for federal sites and frequently so for state sites, other potentially responsible parties at sites where we are a party typically have had the financial strength to meet their obligations, and where they have not, or where potentially responsible parties could not be located, our share of liability has not increased materially.  Many of the sites for which we are potentially responsible are still under investigation by the EPA or the state agencies concerned.  Prior to actual cleanup, those potentially responsible normally assess site conditions, apportion responsibility and determine the appropriate remediation.  In some instances, we may have no liability or attain a settlement of liability.  Actual cleanup costs generally occur after the parties obtain the EPA or equivalent state agency approval of a remediation plan.  There are relatively few sites where we are a major participant, and given the timing and amounts of anticipated expenditures, neither the cost of remediation at those sites nor such costs at all CERCLA sites, in the aggregate, is expected to have a material adverse effect on our competitive or financial condition. We incur costs related to the prevention, control, abatement or elimination of environmental pollution.  Expensed environmental costs were $824 million in 2023 and are expected to be approximately $885 million and $863 million in 2024 and 2025, respectively.  Capitalized environmental costs were $49 million in 2023 and are expected to be approximately $76 million and $216 million, in 2024 and 2025, respectively.  These amounts do not include capital expenditures made for other purposes that have an indirect benefit on environmental compliance. Accrued liabilities for remediation activities are not reduced for potential recoveries from insurers or other third parties and are not discounted (except those assumed in a business combination, which we record on a discounted basis). Many of these liabilities result from CERCLA, RCRA and similar state laws that require us to undertake certain investigative and remedial activities at sites where we conduct, or once conducted, operations or at sites where our generated waste was disposed.  We also have accrued for a number of sites we identified that may require environmental remediation, but which are not currently the subject of CERCLA, RCRA or state enforcement activities.  If applicable, we accrue receivables for probable insurance or other third-party recoveries.  In the future, we may incur significant costs under both CERCLA and RCRA.  Remediation activities vary substantially in duration and cost from site to site, depending on the mix of unique site characteristics, evolving remediation technologies, diverse regulatory agencies and enforcement policies, and the presence or absence of potentially liable third parties.  Therefore, it is difficult to develop reasonable estimates of future site remediation costs. Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, and as with other companies engaged in similar businesses, environmental costs and liabilities are inherent concerns in certain of our operations and products, and there can be no assurance that those costs and liabilities will not be material.  However, we currently do not expect any material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position as a result of compliance with current environmental laws and regulations. Climate Change There has been a broad range of proposed or promulgated state, national and international laws focusing on GHG emissions reduction, including various regulations proposed or issued by the EPA.  These proposed or promulgated laws apply or could apply in states and/or countries where we have interests or may have interests in the future.  Laws regulating GHG emissions continue to evolve, and while it is not possible to accurately estimate either a timetable for implementation or our future compliance costs relating to implementation, such laws potentially could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition as a result of increasing costs of compliance, lengthening project implementation and agency reviews, or reducing demand for certain hydrocarbon products.  Examples of legislation or precursors for possible regulation that do or could affect our operations include: • EU ETS, which is part of the European Union’s policy to combat climate change and is a key tool for reducing industrial GHG emissions.  EU ETS impacts factories, power stations and other installations across all EU member states.  As a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the EU (BREXIT), those types of entities in the United Kingdom are now subject to the UK ETS, rather than the EU ETS. • EU Renewable Energy Directive II, which increases the EU’s energy consumption from renewable sources in the electricity, heat, and transportation sectors to 32% by 2030. 69 • United Kingdom’s Renewable Transport Fuel Obligation, which is intended to reduce the GHG emissions from fuel used in the United Kingdom transportation sector by encouraging the supply of renewable fuels. • California’s Senate Bill No. 32, which requires reduction of California's GHG emissions to 40% below the 1990 emission level by 2030, and Assembly Bill 398, which extends the California GHG emission cap and trade program through 2030.  Other GHG emissions programs in states in the western U.S. have been enacted or are under consideration or development, including amendments to California's Low Carbon Fuel Standard, California’s Advanced Clean Cars and Trucks Programs, California’s Carbon Neutrality by 2045 Scoping Plan, Oregon's Low Carbon Fuel Standard and Climate Protection Plan, and Washington's carbon reduction programs. • United States’ Inflation Reduction Act, which contains tax inducements and other provisions that incentivize investment, development, and deployment of alternative energy sources and technologies, which is intended to accelerate the energy transition. • The U.S. Supreme Court decision in Massachusetts v. EPA , 549 U.S. 497, 127 S. Ct. 1438 (2007), confirming that the EPA has the authority to regulate carbon dioxide as an “air pollutant” under the Federal Clean Air Act. • The EPA’s announcement on March 29, 2010 (published as “Interpretation of Regulations that Determine Pollutants Covered by Clean Air Act Permitting Programs,” 75 Fed. Reg. 17004 (April 2, 2010)), and the EPA’s and U.S. Department of Transportation’s joint promulgation of a Final Rule on April 1, 2010, that triggers regulation of GHGs under the Clean Air Act.  These collectively may lead to more climate-based claims for damages, and may result in longer agency review time for development projects to determine the extent of potential climate change. • The EPA's 2015 Final Rule regulating GHG emissions from existing fossil fuel-fired electrical generating units under the Federal Clean Air Act, commonly referred to as the Clean Power Plan.  The EPA commenced rulemaking in 2017 to rescind the Clean Power Plan and, in August 2018, the EPA proposed the Affordable Clean Energy (ACE) rule as its replacement.  On January 19, 2021, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia invalidated the ACE rule and remanded the matter to the EPA, essentially restarting this rulemaking process. • Carbon taxes in certain jurisdictions. • GHG emission cap and trade programs in certain jurisdictions. In the EU, the first phase of the EU ETS completed at the end of 2007.  Phase II was undertaken from 2008 through 2012, and Phase III ran from 2013 through to 2020.  Phase IV runs from January 1, 2021 through 2030 and sectors covered under the ETS must reduce their GHG emissions by 43% compared to 2005 levels and there is agreement between the EU Member States, the European Parliament, and the EU Commission (which is pending ratification by the EU Council and European Parliament) to increase the Phase IV GHG emissions reduction to 63% by 2030 compared to 2005 levels.  The United Kingdom is no longer part of the EU ETS and, instead, has been under the UK ETS since 2021.  Phillips 66 has assets that are subject to the EU ETS and assets that are subject to the UK ETS. From November 30 to December 12, 2015, more than 190 countries, including the United States, participated in the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris, France.  The conference culminated in what is known as the “Paris Agreement,” which, upon certain conditions being met, entered into force on November 4, 2016.  The Paris Agreement establishes a commitment by signatory parties to pursue domestic GHG emission reductions.  In 2017, President Trump announced his intention to withdraw the United States from the Paris Agreement and that withdrawal became effective on November 4, 2020.  On January 20, 2021, President Biden signed the “Acceptance on Behalf of the United States of America,” which allows the United States to rejoin the Paris Agreement.  The United States officially rejoined the Paris Agreement in February 2021, which could lead to additional GHG emission reduction requirements for sources in the United States. In the United States, some additional form of regulation is likely to be forthcoming at the state or federal levels with respect to GHG emissions.  Such regulation could take any of several forms that may result in additional financial burden in the form of taxes, the restriction of output, investments of capital to maintain compliance with laws and regulations, or required acquisition or trading of emission allowances. 70 Compliance with changes in laws and regulations that create a GHG emission trading program, GHG reduction requirements or carbon taxes could significantly increase our costs, reduce demand for fossil energy derived products, impact the cost and availability of capital and increase our exposure to litigation.  Such laws and regulations could also increase demand for less carbon intensive energy sources. An example of one such program is California’s cap and trade program, which was promulgated pursuant to the State’s Global Warming Solutions Act.  The program had been limited to certain stationary sources, which include our refineries in California, but beginning in January 2015 was expanded to include emissions from transportation fuels distributed in California.  Inclusion of transportation fuels in California’s cap and trade program as currently promulgated has increased our cap and trade program compliance costs.  The ultimate impact on our financial performance, either positive or negative, from this and similar programs, will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: • Whether and to what extent legislation or regulation is enacted. • The nature of the legislation or regulation, such as a cap and trade system or a tax on emissions. • The GHG reductions required. • The price and availability of offsets. • The demand for, and amount and allocation of allowances. • Technological and scientific developments leading to new products or services. • Any potential significant physical effects of climate change, such as increased severe weather events, changes in sea levels and changes in temperature. • Whether, and the extent to which, increased compliance costs are ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services. We consider and take into account anticipated future GHG emissions in designing and developing major facilities and projects, and implement energy efficiency initiatives to reduce GHG emissions.  Data on our GHG emissions, legal requirements regulating such emissions, and the possible physical effects of climate change on our coastal assets are incorporated into our planning, investment, and risk management decision-making.  We are working to continuously improve operational and energy efficiency through resource and energy conservation efforts throughout our operations. In February 2022, we announced a target to reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions intensity related to our operations by 50% of 2019 levels by the year 2050.  The 2050 target builds upon our 2030 GHG emissions intensity targets to reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions from our operations by 30% and Scope 3 emissions from our energy products by 15% compared to 2019 levels. In addition to the disclosures above, we have issued our 2023 Sustainability Report that is accessible on our website and provides more detailed information on our ESG initiatives, including information on environmental metrics and other topics of interest to our stakeholders, which may not be considered material for SEC reporting purposes.   The information contained in the Sustainability Report is not incorporated by reference into, and does not constitute a part of, this Form 10-K. 71 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to select appropriate accounting policies and to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.  See Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for descriptions of our major accounting policies.  Some of these accounting policies involve judgments and uncertainties to such an extent that there is a reasonable likelihood that materially different amounts would have been reported under different conditions, or if different assumptions had been used.  The following discussion of critical accounting estimates addresses accounting areas where the nature of accounting estimates or assumptions could be material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or the susceptibility of such matters to change. Business Combination In accounting for a business combination, assets acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interests are recorded based on estimated fair values as of the date of acquisition.  The excess or shortfall of the purchase price when compared to the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired, if any, is recorded as goodwill or a bargain purchase gain, respectively.  A significant amount of judgment is made in estimating the individual fair value of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, noncontrolling interests and other assets and liabilities.  We use available information to make these fair value determinations and engage third-party specialists in the valuation process as necessary. The fair values of assets acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interests as of the acquisition date are often estimated using a combination of approaches, including the income approach, which requires us to project future cash flows and apply an appropriate discount rate; the cost approach, which requires estimates of replacement costs and depreciation and obsolescence estimates; and the market approach which uses market data and adjusts for entity specific differences.  The estimates used in determining fair values are based on assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain.  Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from the estimated results used to determine fair value. See Note 4—Business Combinations, and Note 18—Fair Value Measurements, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information on our acquisitions in 2023 and 2022. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Equity Method Investments Long-lived assets used in operations are assessed for impairment whenever changes in facts and circumstances indicate a possible significant deterioration in future expected cash flows.  If the sum of the undiscounted expected future before-tax cash flows of an asset group is less than the carrying value, including applicable liabilities, the carrying value is written down to estimated fair value.  Individual assets are grouped for impairment purposes based on a judgmental assessment of the lowest level for which there are identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets.  Because there usually is a lack of quoted market prices for long-lived assets, the fair value of impaired assets is typically determined using one or more of the following methods: the present value of expected future cash flows using discount rates and other assumptions believed to be consistent with those used by principal market participants; a market multiple for similar assets; historical market transactions including similar assets, adjusted using principal market participant assumptions when necessary; or replacement cost adjusted for physical deterioration and economic obsolescence.  The expected future cash flows used for impairment reviews and related fair value calculations are based on judgmental assessments, including future volumes, commodity prices, operating costs, margins, discount rates and capital project decisions, considering all available information at the date of review. 72 Investments in nonconsolidated entities accounted for under the equity method are assessed for impairment when there are indicators of a loss in value, such as a lack of sustained earnings capacity or a current fair value less than the investment’s carrying amount.  When it is determined that an indicated impairment is other than temporary, a charge is recognized for the difference between the investment’s carrying value and its estimated fair value.  When determining whether a decline in value is other than temporary, management considers factors such as the duration and extent of the decline, the investee’s financial condition and near-term prospects, and our ability and intention to retain our investment for a period that allows for recovery.  When quoted market prices are not available, the fair value is usually based on the present value of expected future cash flows using discount rates and other assumptions believed to be consistent with those used by principal market participants and observed market earnings multiples of comparable companies, if appropriate.  Different assumptions could affect the timing and the amount of an impairment of an investment in any period. See Note 11—Impairments, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for information about impairments recorded in 2023, 2022 and 2021. 73 GUARANTOR FINANCIAL INFORMATION We have various cross guarantees between Phillips 66 and its wholly owned subsidiary Phillips 66 Company (together, the Obligor Group) with respect to publicly held debt securities.  Phillips 66 conducts substantially all of its operations through subsidiaries, including Phillips 66 Company, and those subsidiaries generate substantially all of its operating income and cash flow.  Phillips 66 has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the payment obligations of Phillips 66 Company with respect to its publicly held debt securities.  In addition, Phillips 66 Company has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the payment obligations of Phillips 66 with respect to its publicly held debt securities.  All guarantees are full and unconditional.  At December 31, 2023, $13.3 billion of senior unsecured notes outstanding has been guaranteed by the Obligor Group. Summarized financial information of the Obligor Group is presented on a combined basis.  Intercompany transactions among the members of the Obligor Group have been eliminated.  The financial information of non-guarantor subsidiaries has been excluded from the summarized financial information.  Significant intercompany transactions and receivable/payable balances between the Obligor Group and non-guarantor subsidiaries are presented separately in the summarized financial information. 74 The summarized results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2023, and the summarized financial position at December 31, 2023, of the Obligor Group on a combined basis were: 75 NON-GAAP RECONCILIATIONS Refining Our realized refining margins measure the difference between (a) sales and other operating revenues derived from the sale of petroleum products manufactured at our refineries and (b) costs of feedstocks, primarily crude oil, used to produce the petroleum products.  The realized refining margins are adjusted to include our proportional share of our joint venture refineries’ realized margins, as well as to exclude those items that are not representative of the underlying operating performance of a period, which we call “special items.”  The realized refining margins are converted to a per-barrel basis by dividing them by total refinery processed inputs (primarily crude oil) measured on a barrel basis, including our share of inputs processed by our joint venture refineries.  Our realized refining margin per barrel is intended to be comparable with industry refining margins, which are known as “crack spreads.”  As discussed in “Executive Overview and Business Environment—Business Environment,” industry crack spreads measure the difference between market prices for refined petroleum products and crude oil.  We believe realized refining margin per barrel calculated on a similar basis as industry crack spreads provides a useful measure of how well we performed relative to benchmark industry refining margins. The GAAP performance measure most directly comparable to realized refining margin per barrel is the Refining segment’s “income (loss) before income taxes per barrel.”  Realized refining margin per barrel excludes items that are typically included in a manufacturer’s gross margin, such as depreciation and operating expenses, and other items used to determine income (loss) before income taxes, such as general and administrative expenses.  It also includes our proportional share of joint venture refineries’ realized refining margins and excludes special items.  Because realized refining margin per barrel is calculated in this manner, and because realized refining margin per barrel may be defined differently by other companies in our industry, it has limitations as an analytical tool.  Following are reconciliations of income (loss) before income taxes to realized refining margins: 76 77 78 Marketing Our realized marketing fuel margins measure the difference between (a) sales and other operating revenues derived from the sale of fuels in our M&S segment and (b) costs of those fuels.  The realized marketing fuel margins are adjusted to exclude those items that are not representative of the underlying operating performance of a period, which we call “special items.”  The realized marketing fuel margins are converted to a per-barrel basis by dividing them by sales volumes measured on a barrel basis.  We believe realized marketing fuel margin per barrel demonstrates the value uplift our marketing operations provide by optimizing the placement and ultimate sale of our refineries’ fuel production. Within the M&S segment, the GAAP performance measure most directly comparable to realized marketing fuel margin per barrel is the marketing business’ “income before income taxes per barrel.”  Realized marketing fuel margin per barrel excludes items that are typically included in gross margin, such as depreciation and operating expenses, and other items used to determine income before income taxes, such as general and administrative expenses.  Because realized marketing fuel margin per barrel excludes these items, and because realized marketing fuel margin per barrel may be defined differently by other companies in our industry, it has limitations as an analytical tool.  Following are reconciliations of income before income taxes to realized marketing fuel margins: 79