********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Our business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the material risks and uncertainties described below. The matters described below are not the only risks and uncertainties facing our company, and risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows can be negatively affected, the value of securities we have issued could be adversely affected, resulting in stockholders and purchasers losing part or all of their investment, and we may not be able to achieve our strategic initiatives or expectations. This Annual Report also includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended as “forward-looking statements” under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and should be read in conjunction with the section entitled Cautionary Statement About Forward-Looking Statements and Information. Summary Risk Factors The following is a summary of some of the material risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. You should read this summary together with the more detailed description of each risk factor contained below. Risks Related to Operating Our Business • Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. • The COVID-19 pandemic and related economic repercussions have materially affected our and our customers’ businesses, and the duration and extent of the negative impact resulting from the pandemic remains uncertain. • A variety of issues could affect the timing or profitability of our projects, and could result in, among other things, project termination or payment of liquidated damages. • Our business is subject to operational hazards (e.g., wildfires, explosions) that can result in significant liabilities, and we may not be insured against all potential liabilities. • Unavailability or cancellation of third-party insurance would increase our risk exposure and disrupt our operations, and our estimates of losses under our insurance programs could prove inaccurate. • Our business is labor-intensive, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees or we may incur significant costs if we are unable to efficiently manage our workforce. • A loss of business from certain significant customers could have a material effect on our business. • Our financial results are based on estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. • We may fail to adequately recover on contract change orders or claims against customers. • Changes in estimates related to revenues and costs under customer contracts could result in a reduction or elimination of revenues or profits or the recognition of losses. • During the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings, as well as bonding claims and related reimbursement requirements. 11 • We may be unsuccessful in generating internal growth. • Many of our contracts may be canceled or suspended on short notice or may not be renewed or replaced. • The nature of our business exposes us to warranty, engineering and other related claims. • We can incur liabilities or suffer negative financial or reputational impacts due to health and safety matters. • Disruptions or failure to adequately protect our information technology systems could materially affect our business or result in harm to our reputation. • A deterioration of our reputation or brands could have an adverse impact on our business. • Our financial results and financial condition may be adversely affected as a result of asset impairments. • Our inability to successfully execute our acquisition strategy may adversely impact our growth. • Our decentralized management infrastructure could negatively impact our business. • The loss of key personnel could disrupt our business. • Our investments and joint ventures expose us to risks and may result in conflicts of interest. • We extend credit to, and enter into other financing arrangements with customers, which subject us to credit and investment risk. • Risks associated with operating in international markets could harm our business and prospects. • Limitations on the availability of suppliers, subcontractors and equipment manufacturers could adversely affect our business. • An increase in the price or restrictions on the use of fuel, materials or equipment could adversely affect our business. • Increasing scrutiny and expectations with respect to corporate sustainability practices may impose additional costs on us or expose us to reputational or other risks. Risks Related to Our Industries • Negative economic and market developments, including low commodity production volumes and prices, can adversely impact our customers. • Our revenues and profitability can be negatively impacted if customers encounter financial difficulties or disputes arise with our customers. • Our business is highly competitive and competitive pressures could negatively impact our business. • Technological advancements and other market conditions could negatively affect our business. Risks Related to Regulation and Compliance • Regulatory requirements applicable to our business and potential changes related to those requirements may adversely affect our business. • Our unionized workforce and related obligations may adversely affect our operations. • We could be adversely affected by failure to comply with laws applicable to our foreign activities. • Compliance with tax laws could adversely affect our financial results. • Our failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could result in significant liabilities and costs. • Certain specific regulatory requirements are applicable to us and certain of our subsidiaries, which could materially impact our business. • Governmental opportunities could subject us to increased regulation and costs and may pose additional risks relating to funding and compliance. • Immigration laws, including inability to verify employment and restrictions on movement, could adversely impact our business. Risk Related to Financing Our Business • We may not have access to sufficient funding to finance desired growth and operations. • We have a significant amount of debt that can negatively impact our business. • We may not have sufficient cash flow to service our debt. • Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk. • We may be unable to compete for projects if we cannot obtain surety bonds, letters of credit or bank guarantees. • A downgrade in our debt rating could restrict our ability to access capital markets. Risks Related to Our Common Stock • Our sale or issuance of additional common stock or other equity securities could be dilutive to each stockholder’s ownership interest or affect the market price of our common stock. • There can be no assurance that we will declare or pay future dividends on our common stock. • Certain provisions of our governing documents could make an acquisition of Quanta more difficult. 12 Risks Related to Operating Our Business Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our business can be highly cyclical and is subject to seasonality and other factors that can result in significantly different operating results from quarter to quarter, and therefore our results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of future results. Our quarterly results have been and may in the future be materially and/or adversely affected by, among other things: • the timing and volume of work we perform and our performance with respect to ongoing projects, including as a result of project delays, reductions in project scope, project terminations or cancellations, and agreement terminations and expirations; • increases in project costs that result from, among other things, natural disasters and emergencies, adverse weather conditions or events, legal challenges, permitting, regulatory or environmental processes, or inaccurate project cost estimates; • variations in the size, scope, costs and margins of ongoing projects, as well as the mix of our customers, contracts and business; • fluctuations in economic, political and market conditions on a regional, national or global basis, including potential regulatory, legislative and policy changes resulting from the 2020 U.S. congressional and presidential elections; • pricing pressures as a result of competition; • changes in the budgetary spending patterns or strategic plans of customers or governmental entities; • liabilities and costs incurred in our operations that are not covered by, or that are in excess of, our third-party insurance or indemnification rights, including significant liabilities that arise from the inherently hazardous conditions of our operations (e.g., explosions, fires) and the operations of our subcontractors, and which could be exacerbated by the geographies in which we operate; • disputes with customers or delays and payment risk relating to billing and payment under our contracts and change orders, including customers affected by the volatility of commodity prices or production or that have filed for bankruptcy protection; • the resolution of, or unexpected or increased costs associated with, pending or threatened legal proceedings, indemnity obligations, multiemployer pension plan obligations (e.g., withdrawal liability) or other claims; • restructuring, severance and other costs associated with, among other things, winding down certain operations and exiting markets, including our Latin American operations; • estimates and assumptions in determining our financial results, remaining performance obligations and backlog, including the timing and significance of impairments of long-lived assets, equity or other investments, receivables, goodwill or other intangible assets; • significant fluctuations in foreign currency rates; • the recognition of tax impacts related to changes in tax laws or uncertain tax positions; and • the timing and magnitude of costs we incur to support our operations or growth internally or through acquisitions. The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and related economic repercussions have materially affected how we and our customers are operating our businesses, and the duration and extent to which this will negatively impact our future results of operations and overall financial performance remains uncertain. The COVID-19 pandemic has negatively impacted the global economy, disrupted consumer spending and global supply chains, and created significant volatility and disruption of financial markets. We have experienced some resulting disruptions to our business operations, and we expect the COVID-19 pandemic could continue to have a material adverse impact on our business and financial performance. Specifically, we have been negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic as a result of the shelter-in-place restrictions and work disruptions in some of our service areas creating disruptions to portions of our operations, particularly in major metropolitan markets that have been meaningfully impacted by the pandemic and in Latin America. We have also experienced permitting and regulatory delays attributable to the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, restrictions on operations related to industrial facilities, as well as reduced demand for refined products, have resulted in suspensions and delays related to our high-pressure and critical-path turnaround services to the downstream and midstream energy markets. In addition to these current dynamics, the COVID-19 pandemic may create or exacerbate risks related to our operations and regulatory and compliance matters, including as a result of: 13 • evolving governmental guidance or requirements, including travel and movement restrictions, that continue to impact our ability to perform services or complete projects in accordance with required delivery schedules, which could result in additional costs or penalties (e.g., liquidated damages); • additional delays with respect to permitting and regulatory matters and additional project deferrals, delays, and cancellations and changes in customer spending patterns and strategic plans as a result of, among other things, prolonged decreases in energy demand, lack of available financing for our customers’ businesses or termination of, or force majeure events arising under, existing customer agreements; • governmental guidance or requirements, including work-from-home policies, or potential illness that negatively impact the availability or productivity of our key personnel or a significant number of employees or cause other disruptions to our business, corporate governance or financial reporting processes; • increased payment risk associated with customers experiencing financial difficulties (including bankruptcy) and an increase in disputes with customers relating to billing and payment under contracts and change orders; • potential liabilities and reputational harm related to occupational health and safety matters; • our inability to execute our business strategy, including with respect to certain capital investments such as acquisitions, investments and service offering expansions; • limitations on the ability of our suppliers, vendors and subcontractors to perform; • additional impairment charges related to goodwill, other intangible assets, other long-lived assets and investments; • additional costs associated with restructuring, severance and related matters or other increased employment-related costs (e.g., workers’ compensation insurance claims); and • an increase in cyber-attacks and attempted intrusions into our information technology systems as a result of, among other things, increased reliance on such systems. The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and financial performance, including our ability to execute our near-term and long-term business strategies and initiatives in the expected time frame, will depend on future developments, including the duration and severity of the pandemic, the resulting governmental and other measures implemented to address the pandemic and the development and availability of effective treatments and vaccines, which are uncertain and cannot be predicted. As a result, the ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic is difficult to predict, and the pandemic may continue to materially impact our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. A variety of issues could affect the timing or profitability of our projects, which may result in additional costs to us, reductions or delays in revenues, the payment of liquidated damages or project termination. Our business is dependent in part upon projects that can be cyclical in nature and are subject to risks of delay or cancellation. The timing of or failure to obtain contracts, delays in awards of, start dates for or completion of projects and the cancellations of projects can result in significant periodic fluctuations in our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Many of our projects involve challenging engineering, permitting, procurement and construction phases that occur over extended time periods, sometimes several years, and we have encountered and may in the future encounter project delays, additional costs or project performance issues as a result of, among other things: • inability to meet project schedule requirements or achieve guaranteed performance or quality standards for a project, which can result in increased costs, through rework, replacement or otherwise, or the payment of liquidated damages to the customer or contract termination; • failure to accurately estimate project costs or accurately establish the scope of our services; • failure to make judgments in accordance with applicable professional standards (e.g., engineering standards); • unforeseen circumstances or project modifications not included in our cost estimates or covered by our contract for which we cannot obtain adequate compensation, including concealed or unknown environmental, geological or geographical site conditions and technical problems such as design or engineering issues; • changes in laws or permitting and regulatory requirements during the course of our work (e.g., federal district court ruling vacating the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Clean Water Act Section 404 Nationwide Permit 12); • delays in the delivery or management of design or engineering information, equipment or materials; • our or a customer’s failure to timely obtain permits or rights of way or meet other permitting, regulatory or environmental requirements or conditions; 14 • schedule changes; • natural disasters or emergencies, including wildfires and earthquakes, as well as significant weather events (e.g., hurricanes, tropical storms, tornadoes, floods, droughts, blizzards and extreme temperatures) and adverse or unseasonable weather conditions (e.g., prolonged rainfall or snowfall, early thaw in Canada and the northern United States); • difficult terrain and site conditions where delivery of materials and availability of labor are impacted or where there is exposure to harsh and hazardous conditions; • protests, legal challenges or other political activity or opposition to a project; • other factors such as terrorism, military action and public health crises (e.g., the COVID-19 pandemic); • changes in the cost of equipment, commodities, materials or labor; and • delay or failure to perform by suppliers, subcontractors or other third parties, or our failure to coordinate performance of such parties, as approximately 15% to 20% of our work is subcontracted to other service providers. Many of these difficulties and delays are beyond our control and can negatively impact our ability to complete the project in accordance with the required delivery schedule or achieve our anticipated margin on the project. Delays and additional costs associated with delays may be substantial and not recoverable from third parties, and in some cases, we may be required to compensate the customer for such delays, including in circumstances where we have guaranteed project completion or performance by a scheduled date and incur liquidated damages if we do not meet such schedule. Furthermore, we generate a significant portion of our revenues under fixed price contracts, including contracts for projects where we provide engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) services (e.g., large electric transmission and pipeline projects, facility and terminal projects), and we have strategically expanded these service offerings in recent years. These contracts often involve complex pricing, scope of services and other bid preparation components that require challenging estimates and assumptions on the part of our personnel, which increases the risk that costs incurred on such projects can vary, sometimes substantially, from our original estimates. To the extent our costs on a project exceed our revenues, we incur a loss. Additionally, performance difficulties can result in project cancellation by a customer and damage to our reputation or relationship with a customer, which can adversely affect our ability to secure new contracts. As a result, additional costs or penalties, a reduction in our productivity or efficiency or a project termination in any given period can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For example, as discussed in further detail in Legal Proceedings within Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , the termination of a telecommunications project in Peru resulted in a $79.2 million charge to earnings in the second quarter of 2019. Our business is subject to operational hazards, including, among others, wildfires and explosions, that can result in significant liabilities and that may be exacerbated by certain geographies and locations where we perform services, and we may not be insured against all potential liabilities. Due to the nature of services we provide and the conditions in which we and our customers operate, our business is subject to operational hazards and accidents that can result in significant liabilities. These operational hazards include, among other things, electricity, fires, explosions, leaks, collisions, mechanical failures, and damage from severe weather conditions and natural disasters. Furthermore, certain of our customers operate energy- and communications-related infrastructure assets in locations and environments that increase the likelihood and/or severity of these operational hazards, including as a result of changes in climate and other factors in recent years. In particular, we perform a significant amount of services, including operational, consulting and other services, for customers that operate electrical power, natural gas, communications and other infrastructure assets in the western United States, Australia and other locations that have recently experienced, and have a higher risk of, wildfires. For example, certain of Quanta’s operating units perform inspection, consulting, repair and maintenance and other services for utilities and other customers that operate electric power, natural gas, communications and other infrastructure in California and other areas in the western United States, including inspection of, and construction, upgrade, repair and maintenance and other services relating to, the electrical power and natural gas transmission and distribution infrastructure operated by PG&E Corporation and its primary operating subsidiary, Pacific Gas and Electric Company (together, PG&E), as well as other utilities and customers, in California and other western states. PG&E and certain other utility customers have been determined to be or are potentially responsible for catastrophic wildfire events that have occurred in recent years, some of which events Quanta’s operating units have received document hold requests and subpoenas in connection with, and some of which events currently remain under investigation. We are not a party to any pending legal proceeding relating to such wildfire events at this time, and no related claims asserting 15 liabilities against Quanta or its operating units have been filed. However, there is no assurance that claims will not be filed in the future. We also often perform services in locations that are densely populated and that have higher value property and assets, such as California and metropolitan areas, which can increase the impact of any of these hazards or other accidents. For example, one of our larger operating units specializes in underground gas and electric distribution and transmission services and operates in metropolitan areas throughout the northeastern United States, including New York City, New York, and we assumed certain contingent liabilities related to a natural gas explosion in connection with our acquisition of this operating unit in 2019, which are described further in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Additionally, we operate a significant number of helicopters in the performance of our services, including the transportation of line workers, the setting of poles, the stringing of wires and wildfire control and prevention, among other activities, including in locations that have a higher risk of wildfires and in densely populated areas. Our operation of helicopters is subject to various risks, such as crashes, collisions, fires, adverse weather conditions or mechanical failures. Events arising from operational hazards and accidents have resulted in significant liabilities to us in the past and may expose us to significant claims and liabilities in the future. These claims and liabilities can arise through indemnification obligations to customers, our negligence or otherwise, and such claims and liabilities can arise even if our operations are not the cause of the harm. Our exposure to liability can also extend for years after we complete our services, and potential claims and liabilities arising from significant accidents and events can take years and significant legal costs to resolve. Potential liabilities include, among other things, claims associated with personal injury, including severe injury or loss of life, and destruction of or significant damage to property and equipment as well as harm to the environment, and other claims discussed above and can lead to suspension of operations, adverse effects to our safety record and reputation and/or material liabilities and legal costs. In addition, if any of these events or losses related thereto are alleged or found to be the result of our or our customer’s activities or services, we could be subject to government enforcement actions, regulatory penalties, civil litigation and governmental actions, including investigations, citations, fines and suspension of operations. Insurance coverage may not be available to us or may be insufficient to cover the cost of any of these liabilities and legal costs, and our insurance costs may increase if we incur liabilities associated with operational hazards. If we are not fully insured or indemnified against such liabilities and legal costs or a counterparty fails to meet its indemnification obligations to us, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, to the extent our reputation or safety record is adversely affected, demand for our services could decline or we may not be able to bid for certain work. Unavailability or cancellation of third-party insurance coverage would increase our overall risk exposure, as well as disrupt our operations, and estimates of losses covered by our insurance policies could prove incorrect. We maintain insurance coverage from third-party insurers as part of our overall risk management strategy and because some of our contracts require us to maintain specific insurance coverage limits. We are insured for, among other things, employer’s liability, workers’ compensation, auto liability, aviation and general liability claims, but such insurance is subject to deductibles and limits and may be canceled or may not cover all of our losses. We also manage and maintain a portion of our casualty risk through our wholly-owned captive insurance company, which insures all claims up to the amount of the applicable deductible of our third-party insurance programs, and issue letters of credit to secure our obligations in connection with our casualty insurance programs. Our insurance policies include various coverage requirements, including notice requirements, and coverage could be denied if we fail to comply with those requirements. Additionally, our insurance coverages may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances or against all claims and liabilities asserted against us, and if we are not fully insured against such claims and liabilities, it could expose us to significant liabilities and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We also renew our insurance policies on an annual basis, and therefore deductibles and levels of coverage offered by third parties may change in future periods, and there is no assurance that any of our coverages will be renewed at their current levels or at all or that any future coverage will be available at reasonable and competitive rates. Our third-party insurers could also fail, cancel our coverage or otherwise be unable or unwilling to provide us with adequate insurance coverage. For example, due to the increased occurrence and future risk of wildfires in California and other areas in the western United States, Australia and other locations, insurers have reduced coverage availability and increased the cost of insurance coverage for such events in recent years. As a result, our level of insurance coverage for wildfire events decreased, including in connection with our annual insurance renewals in the spring of 2020 and 2019, and our levels of coverage may not be sufficient to cover potential losses. Furthermore, our third-party insurers could also decide to further reduce or exclude coverage for wildfires or other events in connection with our insurance renewal in the spring of 2021 and/or in the future. Adverse changes in our insurance coverage could increase our exposure to uninsured losses, which could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or result in a disruption of our operations. Losses under our insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimate of the ultimate liability for claims reported and 16 an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. These insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and unreported incidents. If we experience claims or costs above our estimates, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Our business is labor-intensive, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees or we may incur significant costs in the event we are unable to efficiently manage our workforce. Our ability to efficiently manage our business and achieve our strategic initiatives is limited by our ability to employ, train and retain the necessary skilled personnel, which is subject to a number of risks. The commencement of new, large-scale infrastructure projects or increased demand for infrastructure improvements, as well as the aging electric utility workforce, has reduced and may further reduce the pool of skilled workers, including experienced program managers and qualified journeyman linemen, available for our Electric Power Infrastructure Solutions segment. With respect to our Underground Utility and Infrastructure Solutions segment, there is limited availability of experienced supervisors and foremen that can oversee larger diameter pipeline projects. The cyclical nature of the natural gas and oil industry can also create shortages of qualified labor during periods of high demand and production. A shortage in the supply of these personnel creates competitive hiring markets that may result in increased labor expenses, and we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant education and training expenses in order to recruit and train employees. The uncertainty of contract award timing and project delays can also present difficulties in managing our workforce size. Our inability to efficiently manage our workforce may require us to incur costs resulting from excess staff, reductions in staff, or redundancies that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The loss of, or reduction in business from, certain significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. A few customers have in the past and may in the future account for a significant portion of our revenues. For example, our ten largest customers accounted for 32% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020. Although we have long-standing relationships with many of our significant customers, a significant customer may unilaterally reduce or discontinue business with us at any time or merge or be acquired by a company that decides to reduce or discontinue business with us. A significant customer may also file for bankruptcy protection or cease operations, which could also result in reduced or discontinued business with us. The loss of business from a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in estimates related to revenues and costs associated with our contracts with customers could result in a reduction or elimination of revenues, a reduction of profits or the recognition of losses. For fixed price contracts and certain unit-price contracts, we recognize revenue as performance obligations are satisfied over time and earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability, as discussed in further detail in Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data . Changes in contract estimates are recognized on a cumulative catch-up basis in the period in which the revisions to the estimates are made, and contract losses are recognized in full when losses are determined to be probable and can be reasonably estimated. Variable consideration amounts, including performance incentives, early pay discounts and penalties, may also cause changes in contract estimates. In addition, we recognize amounts associated with change orders and/or claims as revenue when it is probable that the contract price will be adjusted and the amount of any such adjustment can be reasonably estimated, which can result in the recognition of costs prior to the recognition of the related revenue. Furthermore, actual amounts collected in connection with change orders can differ from estimated amounts. Consequently, the timing for recognition of revenues and profit or loss and any subsequent changes in estimates is uncertain and could result in a reduction or an elimination of previously reported revenues or profits or the recognition of losses on the associated contract. Any such adjustments could be significant and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may fail to adequately recover on contract change orders or claims brought by us against customers. We have in the past brought, and may in the future bring, claims against our customers. These types of claims occur due to, among other things, delays caused by customers and third parties and changes in project scope, which can result in additional costs that may not be recovered until the claim is resolved. While we generally negotiate with the customer for additional compensation, we may be unable to obtain, through negotiation, arbitration, litigation or otherwise, adequate amounts to compensate us for the additional work or expenses incurred. Litigation or arbitration with respect to these matters is generally lengthy and costly, involves significant uncertainty as to timing and amount of any resolution, and can adversely affect our relationship with existing or potential customers. Furthermore, we can be required to invest significant working capital to fund cost overruns while the resolution of a claim is pending. Failure to obtain adequate and prompt compensation for these matters can result in a reduction of revenues and gross profit recognized in prior periods or the recognition of a loss. Any 17 such reduction or loss can be substantial and can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. During the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings, as well as bonding claims and related reimbursement requirements. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, named as a defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business. These actions seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury (including claims for loss of life), workers’ compensation, employment discrimination, sexual harassment, workplace misconduct, wage and hour claims and other employment-related damages, compensation for breach of contract, negligence or gross negligence or property damage, environmental liabilities, multiemployer pension plan withdrawal liabilities, punitive damages, consequential damages, and civil penalties or other losses or injunctive or declaratory relief. In addition, we generally indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide and actions we take under our contracts, and, in some instances, we are allocated risk through our contract terms for actions by our customers, subcontractors or other third parties. Because our services in certain instances can be integral to the operation and performance of our customers’ infrastructure, we have been and may become subject to lawsuits or claims for any failure of the systems that we work on or damages caused by accidents and events related to such systems, even if our services are not the cause of such failures and damages. We could also be subject to civil and criminal liabilities, which could be material. Insurance coverage may not be available or may be insufficient for these lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings. The outcome of any allegations, lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings, as well as any public reaction thereto, is inherently uncertain and could result in significant costs, damage to our brands or reputation and diversion of management’s attention from our business. Payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could materially and adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, many customers, particularly in connection with new construction, require us to post performance and payment bonds. These bonds provide a guarantee that we will perform under the terms of a contract and pay our subcontractors and vendors. If we fail to perform, the customer may demand that the surety make payments or provide services under the bond, and we must reimburse the surety for any expenses or outlays it incurs. For example, we were required to make material reimbursements to our sureties for bond-related costs in connection with the exercise of approximately $112 million of on-demand advance payment and performance bonds related to a terminated telecommunications project in Peru. As of December 31, 2020, the total amount of our outstanding performance bonds was estimated to be approximately $3.7 billion. To the extent reimbursements are required, the amounts could be material and could adversely affect our consolidated business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. For details on our existing litigation, claims and other legal proceedings, refer to Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report . We may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth, which could adversely affect our business. Many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth are beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies for achieving internal growth will be successful. Our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to profitably scale the services we currently offer and expand our overall service offerings, attract new customers, increase the number of projects we perform for existing customers; hire and retain qualified employees and expand geographically within our current markets, as well as our ability to address regulatory, environmental and permitting requirements and economic or market conditions that affect us or our customers. Inability to successfully generate internal growth may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Many of our contracts may be canceled or suspended on short notice or may not be renewed upon completion or expiration, and we may be unsuccessful in replacing our contracts, which could adversely affect our business. Our customers have in the past and may in the future cancel, delay or reduce the number or size of projects available to us for a variety of reasons, including capital constraints or inability to meet regulatory requirements. Furthermore, many of our customers may cancel or suspend our contracts on short notice, typically 30 to 90 days, even if we are not in default under the contract. Certain of our customers assign work to us on a project-by-project basis under master service agreements. Under these agreements, our customers generally have no obligation to assign a specific amount of work to us. Our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows can be negatively impacted if our customers cancel or suspend contracts having significant value, we fail to renew or replace a significant number of our existing contracts when they expire or are completed or the anticipated volume of work under an existing master service agreement is not assigned to us. The nature of our business exposes us to potential liability for warranty, engineering and other related claims. We typically provide contractual warranties for our services and materials, guaranteeing the work performed against, among other things, defects in workmanship, and we may agree to indemnify our customers for losses related to our services. 18 The length of these warranty periods varies and can extend for several years, and certain projects can have longer warranty periods and include facility performance warranties that are broader than the warranties we generally provide. Warranties generally require us to re-perform the services and/or repair or replace the warranted item and any other facilities impacted thereby, at our sole expense, and we could also be responsible for other damages if we are not able to adequately satisfy our warranty obligations. In addition, we can be required under contractual arrangements with our customers to warrant any defects or failures in materials we provide. While we generally require materials suppliers to provide us warranties that are consistent with those we provide customers, if any of these suppliers default on their warranty obligations to us, we may incur costs to repair or replace the defective materials. For example, as discussed in further detail in Legal Proceedings within Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , we are involved in litigation with respect to a claim of approximately $59 million in damages related to alleged warranty defects on a pipeline project. Furthermore, our business involves professional judgments regarding the planning, design, development, construction, operations and management of electric power, communications, underground utility and pipeline infrastructure. Because our projects are often technically complex, our failure to make judgments and recommendations in accordance with applicable professional standards, including engineering standards, could result in damages. A significantly adverse or catastrophic event at a project site or completed project resulting from the services we performed could result in significant professional or product liability, personal injury (including claims for loss of life) or property damage claims or other claims against us, as well as reputational harm. These liabilities could exceed our insurance limits or impact our ability to obtain third-party insurance in the future, and customers, subcontractors or suppliers who have agreed to indemnify us against any such liabilities or losses might refuse or be unable to pay us. As a result, warranty, engineering and other related claims could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We can incur liabilities or suffer negative financial or reputational impacts relating to health and safety matters. Our operations are inherently hazardous and subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace. While we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in our occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk, and there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability exposure. Although we have taken precautions designed to mitigate this risk, we have suffered serious accidents, including fatalities, and we anticipate that our operations may result in additional serious accidents in the future. As a result of these events, we could be subject to substantial penalties, criminal prosecution or civil litigation, including claims for bodily injury or loss of life, that could result in substantial costs and liabilities. In addition, if our safety record were to substantially deteriorate over time or we were to suffer substantial penalties or criminal prosecution for violation of health and safety regulations, our customers could cancel our contracts and elect to procure future services from other providers. Unsafe work sites also have the potential to increase employee turnover, increase the costs of projects for our clients, and raise our operating costs. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Disruptions to our information technology systems or our failure to adequately protect critical data, sensitive information and technology systems could materially affect our business or result in harm to our reputation. We rely on information technology systems to manage our operations and other business processes and to protect sensitive company information, and our reliance on those systems has increased as a result of remote working arrangements necessitated by the COVID-19 pandemic. We also collect and retain information about our customers, stockholders, vendors and employees, all of which expect that we will adequately protect such information. Breaches or disruptions of our information systems, or systems of key third parties and information technology vendors that we rely upon, can result from, among other things, cyber-attacks, theft, inadvertent exposure of sensitive information, acts of terrorism, storms or other natural phenomena, information technology solution failures or network disruptions, and any such cyber-attacks or breaches can go unnoticed for some period of time. An intrusion into the information systems of a business we acquire may also ultimately compromise our systems. Furthermore, some of the energy infrastructure systems on which we work may be considered to be strategic targets, and therefore at greater risk of cyber-attacks or acts of terrorism than other targets. Cyber-attacks can result in compromises of our payment systems, monetary losses, inability to access our systems, delays in processing transactions or reporting financial results, the disclosure or misappropriation of confidential or proprietary company information (including for the purpose of transacting in our stock), or the release of customer, stockholder, vendor or employee data. An attack could also cause service disruptions to our internal systems or, in extreme circumstances, infiltration into, damage to or loss of control of our customers’ energy infrastructure systems. Any such breach or disruption could subject us to significant liabilities, cause damage to our reputation or customer relationships, or result in regulatory investigations or other actions by governmental authorities, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 19 Any deterioration in the quality or reputation of our brands, which can be exacerbated by the effect of social media or significant media coverage, could have an adverse impact on our business. Our brands and our reputation are among our most important assets, and our ability to attract and retain customers depends on brand recognition and reputation. Such dependence makes our business susceptible to reputational damage and to competition from other companies. A variety of events could result in damage to our reputation or brands, some of which are outside of our control, including: • acts or omissions that adversely affect our business such as a crime, scandal, cyber-related incident, litigation or other negative publicity; • failure to successfully perform a high-profile project, including our recent joint venture in LUMA Energy, LLC (LUMA), which was selected for a 15-year operation and maintenance agreement to operate, maintain and modernize the approximately 18,000-mile electric transmission and distribution system in Puerto Rico; • actual or potential involvement in a catastrophic fire, explosion or similar event; or • actual or perceived responsibility for a serious accident or injury. Intensifying media coverage, including the considerable expansion in the use of social media, has increased the volume and speed at which negative publicity arising from these events can be generated and spread, and we may be unable to timely respond to, correct any inaccuracies in, or adequately address negative perceptions arising from such media coverage. If the reputation or perceived quality of our brands decline or customers lose confidence in us, our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be adversely affected. Our financial results are based upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. In preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP, estimates and assumptions are used by management to report the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are necessary because certain information used in the preparation of our financial statements is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from available data or cannot be readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. In some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine, and we must exercise significant judgment, and as a result actual results can differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For example, our remaining performance obligations and backlog are difficult to determine with certainty. Customers often have no obligation under our contracts to assign or release work to us, and many contracts may be terminated on short notice. Cancellation or reduction in scope of a contract can significantly reduce the revenues and profit we recognize. Consequently, our estimates of remaining performance obligations and backlog may not be accurate, and we may not be able to realize our estimated remaining performance obligations and backlog. Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected as a result of asset impairments. Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by impairments to goodwill, other intangible assets, receivables, long-lived assets or investments. As described further in Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , we record goodwill when we acquire a business, and goodwill must be tested at least annually for impairment. Additionally, equity investments are reviewed for impairment by assessing whether there has been a decline in the fair value of the investment below the carrying amount. We have recorded impairments in the past, and any future impairments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations for the period in which the impairment is recognized. For example, during the first and second quarters of 2020, we recorded charges of $3.1 million and $14.9 million for aggregate charges of $18.0 million, primarily related to a $9.3 million impairment associated with an investment in a water and gas pipeline infrastructure contractor located in Australia and $8.7 million of impairments associated with two non-integral equity investments that have been negatively impacted by the decline in demand for refined petroleum products. Additionally, during the fourth quarters of 2020, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $8.3 million, $13.9 million and $49.4 million of asset impairment charges that primarily related to the following: the exit of our Latin American operations and the planned sale of certain equipment in 2020; the winding down and exit of certain oil-influenced operations and assets, the replacement of an internally-developed software application and the planned sale of certain foreign operations and assets in 2019; and the winding down of certain oil-influenced operations and assets in 2018. Our inability to successfully execute our acquisition strategy may have an adverse impact on our growth. Our business strategy includes expanding our presence in the industries we serve through strategic acquisitions of companies that complement or enhance our business. The number of acquisition targets that meet our criteria may be limited. We may also face competition for acquisition opportunities, and other potential acquirers may offer more favorable terms or have greater financial resources available for potential acquisitions. This competition may further limit our acquisition opportunities or raise the prices of acquisitions and make them less accretive, or possibly not accretive, to us. Failure to 20 consummate future acquisitions could negatively affect our growth strategies. Additionally, our past acquisitions have involved, and our future acquisitions may involve, significant cash expenditures and stock issuances, the incurrence or assumption of debt and other known and unknown liabilities and expose us to burdensome regulatory requirements. For example, we assumed certain contingent liabilities associated with an acquisition in 2019, which are described further in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data . As a result, past or future acquisitions may ultimately have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The success of our acquisition strategy also depends on our ability to successfully integrate the operations of the acquired businesses with our existing operations and realize the anticipated benefits from the acquired businesses, such as the expansion of our existing operations, elimination of redundant costs and capitalizing on cross-selling opportunities. Our ability to integrate and realize benefits can be negatively impacted by, among other things: • failure of an acquired business to achieve the results we expect; • diversion of our management’s attention from operational and other matters or other potential disruptions to our existing business; • difficulties incorporating the operations and personnel, or inability to retain key personnel, of an acquired business; • additional financial reporting and accounting challenges associated with an acquired business; • unanticipated events or liabilities associated with the operations of an acquired business; • loss of business due to customer overlap or other factors; and • risks and liabilities arising from the prior operations of an acquired business, such as performance, operational, safety, workforce or other compliance or tax issues, some of which we may not have discovered or accurately estimated during our due diligence and may not be covered by indemnification obligations or available insurance. We cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully complete the integration process without substantial costs, delays, disruptions or other operational or financial problems. Failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, we also generally require that key management and former principals of the businesses we acquire enter into non-competition agreements in our favor. Enforceability of these non-competition agreements varies by jurisdiction and typically is dependent upon specific facts and circumstances, making it difficult to predict their enforceability. Therefore, if a member of the key management of the businesses we acquire is terminated, we might be subject to increased competition if the restrictive covenants entered into by such person are not enforceable or have expired, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our decentralized management structure could negatively impact our business. We cannot be certain that our management structure will be adequate to support our operations as they expand. Our decentralized structure places significant control and decision-making powers in the hands of our operating unit management. This contributes to the risk that we may be slower or less able to identify or react to problems affecting key business matters than we would in a more centralized environment. The lack of timely access to information may also impact the quality of decision making by management. For example, our ability to coordinate and utilize resources, including our fleet, depends on effective communications and processes among our operating units. As a result, the ability to internally communicate, coordinate and execute business strategies, plans and tactics may be negatively impacted by our increasing size and complexity. Our decentralized organization can also result in our operating subsidiaries assuming excessive risk without appropriate guidance from our centralized legal, accounting, safety, tax, treasury and insurance functions. Future growth could also impose significant additional responsibilities on members of our senior management, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit, integrate and retain new senior level managers and executives. To the extent that we are unable to manage our growth effectively or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified management, we may not be able to expand our operations or execute our business plan. The loss of key personnel could disrupt our business. We depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers, senior corporate management and management of our operating units, which includes leadership and key personnel of the businesses we acquire. Although we typically enter into employment agreements with our executive officers and other key employees for initial terms of one to three years and subsequent renewal options, we cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. The loss of key personnel, as well as our inability to attract, develop and retain qualified employees that can succeed key personnel, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. 21 Our investments and joint ventures expose us to risks and may result in conflicts of interest that could adversely impact our business or result in reputational harm. We have entered into strategic relationships, joint ventures and other investment arrangements with various partners, including customers and infrastructure investors, through which we have invested in infrastructure assets and businesses, and we expect this activity to continue in the future. For additional information on our investment activity, including our recent joint venture in LUMA, see Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data . These types of investments expose us to increased risks, including poor performance by the infrastructure projects or businesses in which we have invested due to, among other things, difficult market or economic conditions or slowdowns (which may occur across one or more industries, sectors or geographies) or changes to the supply or demand and fluctuations in the price of commodities. That negative performance could result in lower investment returns, a decline in value or total loss of our investments or the possible sale of our investments at values below our initial projections, including at a loss, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, poor performance of our investments or poor or incomplete performance by our capital partnership structure formed with select infrastructure investors could result in reputational harm to Quanta that impairs our ability to participate in future investment opportunities, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to secure certain future projects. For example, in October 2019, due to certain management changes, our capital partnership investment structure with select investors entered into a 180-day period during which the investors and Quanta evaluated the partnership, at the end of which the investment period for any future investments ended. Further, our relationship with a customer or investor that partners with us in a poorly performing investment could become impaired, which may negatively impact our ability to continue providing services to that customer. Conflicts of interest may also exist or arise for us in relation to our investment partners as a result of the structure of our investment arrangements. For example, in these structures, Quanta can be the contractor for a project as well as an equity investor and possibly the manager of investments in that project. In those instances, conflicts of interest can exist for such things as contractor pricing and the handling of contractor change orders and other claims. While we have taken certain actions that we believe minimize or address these and other anticipated conflicts of interest, including through internal management practices and the terms of our agreements with investment partners, our failure to properly manage such conflicts of interest can expose us to liability or harm our relationships with investment partners, which could impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or cause reputational harm to Quanta. Additionally, the purpose of our joint ventures is typically to combine skills and resources to allow for the bidding and performance of particular projects, and the success on these projects can be adversely affected by the performance of our joint venture partners, over whom we may have little or no control. Differences in opinions or views between us and our joint venture partners may result in delayed decision-making or failure to agree on material issues that may adversely affect the business and operations of our joint ventures. We and our joint venture partners are also generally jointly and severally liable for all liabilities and obligations of a joint venture. If a joint venture partner fails to perform or is unable to satisfy required capital contributions or other obligations, including liabilities stemming from claims or lawsuits, we could be required to make additional investments, provide additional services or pay more than our proportionate share of a liability to make up for their shortfall. Further, if our partners experience cost overruns or project performance issues that we are unable to adequately address, the customer may terminate the project, which could result in legal liability to us, harm our reputation and reduce our profit or increase our loss on a project. As a result, the failure by a joint venture partner to successfully perform or comply with applicable laws, regulations or client requirements could negatively impact our business. We extend credit to customers for purchases of our services and enter into other arrangements with certain of our customers, which subjects us to potential credit or investment risk. We grant credit, generally without collateral, to our customers, which include utilities, communications providers, energy companies, governmental entities, general contractors, and builders, owners and managers of renewable energy facilities and commercial and industrial properties located primarily in the United States, Canada and Australia. In certain circumstances, we also allow our customers to defer payment until certain project milestones have been met or until a project is substantially completed, and customers typically withhold some portion of amounts due to us as retainage until a project is complete. In addition, we have provided in the past and may provide in the future other forms of financing to our customers or make investments in our customers’ projects. These payment arrangements subject us to potential credit risk related to changes in business and economic factors affecting our customers, and certain of our customers have experienced financial difficulties (including bankruptcy) in recent years, which has impacted our ability to collect amounts owed to us. For example, a customer for which we were contracted to construct a natural gas pipeline encountered financial difficulties during 2020 that resulted in nonpayment of certain receivables owed, and as a result we decided to foreclose our liens on the pipeline asset in order to recover the outstanding amounts. If we are unable to collect such amounts, or retain amounts paid to us, our cash flows would be reduced, and we could experience losses. Business and economic factors resulting in financial difficulties (including 22 bankruptcy) for our customers can also reduce the value of any financing or equity investment arrangements we have with our customers, thereby increasing the risk of loss in those circumstances. Losses experienced as a result of these credit and investment risks could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks associated with operating in international markets and U.S. territories could harm our business and prospects. Our overall business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows can be negatively impacted by our activities and operations outside the continental United States, including our international operations and operations in U.S. territories. Although these operations are presently conducted primarily in Canada and Australia, we also perform work in other foreign countries and U.S. territories. For the year ended December 31, 2020, we derived $1.58 billion, or 14.1%, of our consolidated revenues from foreign operations, the substantial majority of which was related to Canada and Australia. Changes in economic conditions, including those resulting from wars and other conflicts, civil unrest, public health crises, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, acts of terrorism, or volatility in global markets, may adversely affect demand for our services and our customers’ ability to pay for our services. In addition, at times we are paid for work outside the United States in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Such payments are subject to fluctuating exchange rates and may exceed our local currency needs, and, in certain instances, those amounts may be subject to temporary blocking, taxes or tariffs, and we may experience difficulties if we attempt to convert such amounts to U.S. dollars. There are numerous other risks associated with operating in international markets, including, but not limited to, changes in applicable regulatory requirements; foreign currency exchange fluctuations; political, economic and social instability; expropriation or nationalization of our assets and operations; unfamiliar foreign legal systems and business practices; and complex U.S. and foreign tax regulations and other laws and international treaties. For example, as discussed in further detail in Legal Proceedings within Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , the termination of a telecommunications project in Peru resulted in a $79.2 million charge to earnings in the second quarter of 2019. Furthermore, we may incur significant costs or liabilities associated with an unsuccessful attempt to enter a new market or we may enter a new market that ultimately proves to be unprofitable or has an otherwise adverse effect on our business. We may also incur significant costs and liabilities associated with winding down or exiting an existing market. For example, we incurred operating losses of $74.0 million, including asset impairment charges of $7.0 million, during 2020 in connection with the exit of our Latin American operations, and our exit from this market could result in additional significant costs during 2021 or in subsequent years. These risks could restrict our ability to provide services to international customers, operate our international business profitably or fund our strategic objectives, which could negatively impact our overall business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2020, foreign revenues decreased by approximately $17 million in comparison with the year ended December 31, 2019 as a result of less favorable foreign currency exchange rates due primarily to the U.S. dollar strengthening against the Canadian and Australian dollars. Furthermore, to the extent the volume of services we provide internationally increases, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be further exposed to the effects of fluctuating exchange rates. Limitations on the availability of suppliers, subcontractors and equipment manufacturers that we depend on could adversely affect our business. We rely on suppliers to obtain the necessary materials and subcontractors to perform portions of our services. We also rely on equipment manufacturers to provide us with the equipment required to conduct our operations, including a significant number of specialty vehicles. Limitations on the availability of suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers could negatively impact our operations, particularly in the event we rely on a single or small number of providers. The risk of a lack of available suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers can be heightened as a result of market, regulatory or economic conditions. For example, customers in certain states and Canada, in order to receive certain funding or for other reasons, may expect or compel us to engage a specified percentage of suppliers that meet diversity-ownership requirements, which can further limit our pool of available suppliers and limit our ability to secure contracts, maintain our services or grow in those areas. Additionally, successful completion of our contracts can depend on whether our subcontractors successfully fulfill their contractual obligations. If our subcontractors fail to perform their contractual obligations, fail to meet the expected completion dates or quality standards or fail to comply with applicable laws, we may be required to incur additional costs or provide additional services to mitigate such shortcomings. As a result, regulatory or other requirements that require us to outsource a percentage of services to subcontractors, whether they are businesses meeting diversity-ownership requirements or otherwise, also limit our ability to self-perform our services, thereby potentially increasing performance risk associated with our services. Furthermore, services subcontracted to other service providers generally yield lower margins, and therefore these regulatory requirements can impact our profitability and results of operations. 23 An increase in the price or restrictions on use of fuel, materials or equipment necessary for our business could adversely affect our business. Under certain contracts, including where we have assumed responsibility for procuring materials for a project, we are exposed to price increases for materials such as copper and steel, which are used as components of supplies or materials utilized in all of our operations. In addition, our customers’ capital budgets can be negatively impacted by an increase in prices of certain materials. Prices could be materially impacted by general market conditions and other factors, including global trade relationships. For example, recent changes to U.S. policies related to global trade and tariffs, as well as retaliatory trade measures implemented by other countries, have resulted in uncertainty concerning availability and pricing of certain commodities and goods important to our and our customers’ businesses, including steel and aluminum. We are also exposed to increases in energy prices, particularly fuel prices for our large rolling-stock fleet, which could be negatively impacted by potential regulatory, legislative and policy changes resulting from the 2020 U.S. congressional and presidential elections. Furthermore, some of our fixed price contracts do not allow us to adjust our prices and, as a result, increases in material or fuel costs could reduce our profitability with respect to such projects. Our ability to utilize certain existing vehicles within our fleet may also be limited by emissions or other regulations. To the extent we are unable to utilize a significant portion of our existing fleet, we may be unable to perform services, which could have an adverse effect on our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Increasing scrutiny and changing expectations from investors and customers with respect to corporate sustainability practices may impose additional costs on us or expose us to reputational or other risks. Investors and other interested constituencies have focused increasingly on the environmental, social and governance (ESG) practices of companies, including practices with respect to human capital resources, emissions and environmental impact and political spending. While we have programs and initiatives in place related to our ESG practices, investors may decide to reallocate capital or to not commit capital as a result of their assessment of our practices. In addition, our customers may require that we implement certain additional ESG procedures or standards in order to continue to do business with us. A failure to comply with investor or customer expectations and standards, which are evolving, or if we are perceived to not have responded appropriately to the growing concern for ESG issues, regardless of whether there is a legal requirement to do so, could also cause reputational harm to our business and could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, organizations that provide ratings information to investors on ESG matters may assign unfavorable ratings to Quanta or our industries, which may lead to negative investor sentiment and the diversion of investment to other companies or industries, which could have a negative impact on our stock price and our costs of capital. Risks Related to Our Industries Negative economic and market conditions, including low commodity production volumes and prices, can adversely impact our customers’ future spending as well as payment for our services. Stagnant or declining economic conditions, including a prolonged economic downturn or recession, as well as significant events that have an impact on financial or capital markets, can adversely impact the demand for our services and result in the delay, reduction or cancellation of certain projects. A number of factors can adversely affect the industries we serve, including, among other things, the COVID-19 pandemic, financing conditions, potential bankruptcies and global and U.S. trade relationships and other geopolitical events. A reduction in cash flow or the lack of availability of debt or equity financing for our customers could result in a reduction in our customers’ spending for our services and also impact the ability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Consolidation, competition, capital constraints or negative economic conditions in the electric power, energy or communications industries can also result in reduced spending by, or the loss of, one or more of our customers. Our Underground Utility and Infrastructure Solutions segment is exposed to risks associated with the oil and gas industry. These risks, which are not subject to our control, include the volatility of commodity prices and production volumes, the development of and consumer demand for alternative energy sources, and legislative and regulatory actions, as well as public opinion, regarding the impact of fossil fuels on the climate and environment. Specifically, lower prices and production volumes, or perceived risk thereof, can result in decreased or delayed spending by our customers, including with respect to larger pipeline and industrial projects. For example, the COVID-19 pandemic and corresponding preventative measures taken around the world have resulted in downward pressure on commodity prices, which negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, certain services within our Underground Utility and Infrastructure Solutions segment and resulted in impairment losses of $8.7 million related to certain non-integral equity method investments during the year ended December 31, 2020 and may result in future impairment losses associated with goodwill, other intangible assets and other long-lived assets. Demand for our industrial services operations also declined during 2020 as customers reduced and deferred regularly scheduled maintenance due to lack of demand for refined products as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, pipeline and industrial capital projects have been, and are expected to be, negatively impacted for a prolonged period due to the low commodity price 24 environment and resulting reductions in customer capital budgets. Furthermore, the change in control of the U.S. Congress and presidency in 2021 may result in increased restrictions on oil and gas production activities, which could have a material adverse effect on the oil and gas industry as a whole. If the profitability of our Underground Utility and Infrastructure Solutions segment were to decline, our overall financial position, results of operations and cash flows could also be adversely affected. A decline in prices, production or the development of resource plays can also negatively impact demand for certain electric power infrastructure services performed in energy-reliant markets, including Canada and Australia. Our revenues and profitability can be negatively impacted if our customers encounter financial difficulties or file bankruptcy or disputes arise with our customers. Our contracts often require us to satisfy or achieve certain milestones in order to receive payment, or in the case of cost-reimbursable contracts, provide support for billings in advance of payment. As a result, we can incur significant costs or perform significant amounts of work prior to receipt of payment. We face difficulties collecting payment and sometimes fail to receive payment for such costs in circumstances where our customers do not proceed to project completion, terminate or cancel a contract, default on their payment obligations, or dispute the adequacy of our billing support. We have in the past brought, and may in the future bring, claims against our customers related to the payment terms of our contracts. For example, as discussed in further detail in Legal Proceedings within Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , we have filed certain international arbitration proceedings against the customer in connection with the terminated telecommunications project in Peru, which seeks to recover, among other things, amounts related to a net receivable position of approximately $120 million as of December 31, 2020. A failure to recover on these types of claims can have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and any such claims may harm our relationships with our customers. Slowing economic conditions in the industries we serve can also impair the financial condition of our customers and hinder their ability to pay us on a timely basis or at all. Further, to the extent a customer files bankruptcy, payment of amounts owed can be delayed and certain payments we receive prior to the filing of the bankruptcy petition may be avoided and returned to the customer’s bankruptcy estate. For example, in January 2019, PG&E Corporation and Pacific Gas and Electric Company (collectively, PG&E), one of our largest customers, filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, as amended, delaying our collection of approximately $165 million of our pre-petition receivables, which were ultimately collected or sold to a third party during the second half of 2019 and 2020. A customer within our Underground Utility and Infrastructure Solutions segment encountered financial difficulties during 2020 that resulted in nonpayment of certain receivables owed, and as a result of which we decided to foreclose our liens on the pipeline asset in order to recover the outstanding amounts. See Concentrations of Credit Risk in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information. Additionally, many of our customers for larger projects are project-specific entities that do not have significant assets other than their interests in the project and could be more likely to encounter financial difficulties relating to their businesses. We ultimately may be unable to collect amounts owed to us by customers experiencing financial difficulties or in bankruptcy, and accounts receivable from such customers may become uncollectible and ultimately have to be written off, which could have an adverse effect on our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business is highly competitive, and competitive pressures could negatively affect our business. We cannot be certain that we will maintain or enhance our competitive position or maintain our current customer base. The specialty contracting business is served by numerous companies, from small, owner-operated private companies to large multi-national, public companies. Relatively few barriers prevent entry into some areas of our business, and as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become one of our competitors. In addition, some of our competitors have significant financial, technical and marketing resources, and may have or develop expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services. Additionally, certain of our competitors may have lower overhead cost structures, and therefore may be able to provide services at lower rates than us. We also face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers, which are capable of performing, or acquiring businesses that perform, some of the same types of services we provide. These customers may also face pressure or be compelled by regulatory or other requirements to self-perform an increasing amount of the services we currently perform for them, thereby reducing the services they outsource to us in the future. Furthermore, a substantial portion of our revenues is directly or indirectly dependent upon obtaining new contracts, which is unpredictable and often involves complex and lengthy negotiations and bidding processes that are impacted by a wide variety of factors, including, among other things, price, governmental approvals, financing contingencies, commodity prices, environmental conditions, overall market and economic conditions, and a potential customer’s perception of our ability to perform the work or the technological advantages held by our competitors. The competitive environment we operate in can also affect the timing of contract awards and the commencement or progress of work under awarded contracts. For example, based on rapidly changing competition dynamics, we have recently experienced, and may in the future experience, more competitive 25 pricing for smaller scale projects Additionally, changing competitive pressures present difficulties in matching workforce size with available contract awards. As a result, the competitive environment we operate in can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Technological advancements and other market developments could negatively affect our business. Technological advancements, market developments and other factors may increase our costs or alter our customers’ existing operating models or the services they require, which could result in reduced demand for our services. For example, a reduction in demand for hydrocarbons or plastics or an increase in demand for renewable energy sources or otherwise, could negatively impact certain of our customers and reduce demand for our services. Additionally, a transition to a decentralized electric power grid, which relies on more dispersed and smaller-scale renewable energy sources, could reduce the need for large infrastructure projects and significant maintenance and rehabilitation programs, thereby reducing demand for, or profitability of, our services. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt to these and other potential changes in a cost-effective manner and to offer services that meet customer demands and evolving industry standards. If we fail to do so or incur significant expenditures in adapting to such change, our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, we view our portfolio of proprietary energized services tools and techniques and other process and design technologies as competitive strengths, which we believe differentiate our service offerings. If our intellectual property rights or work processes become obsolete, through technological advancements or otherwise, we may not be able to differentiate our service offerings and some of our competitors may be able to offer more attractive services to our customers, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Regulation and Compliance Regulatory requirements applicable to our industries and changes in current and potential legislative and regulatory initiatives may adversely affect demand for our services. Because the vast majority of our revenue is derived from a few industries, the federal, state, provincial and local regulations affecting those industries, including, among other things, environmental, safety, and permitting requirements, have a material effect on our business. In recent years, our customers have faced heightened regulatory requirements and increased regulatory enforcement, which have resulted in delays, reductions in scope and cancellations of projects. Furthermore, certain regulatory requirements applicable to our customers are also required of us when we contract with such customers, and our inability to meet those requirements could also result in decreased demand for our services. Concerns about climate-related issues could also potentially result in new legislation, regulation, regulatory actions or other requirements at the local, state or federal level, including as a result of the 2020 U.S. congressional and presidential elections. Such actions could negatively affect our customers and decrease demand for their services, result in increased costs associated with our operations, or impact the prices we charge our customers. For example, in January 2021, the new U.S. presidential administration issued an executive order directing all federal agencies to review and take action to address, among other things, any federal regulations, orders, guidance documents or policies promulgated during the prior presidential administration that may be inconsistent with the current administration’s policies. Any new requirements to reduce, or taxes on the production and/or consumption of, fossil fuels could negatively impact the hydrocarbon production volumes of our customers, which could in turn negatively impact demand for our services. New regulations addressing greenhouse gas emissions from mobile sources could also significantly increase costs for our large rolling-stock fleet, render portions of our fleet obsolete or reduce the availability of vehicles we need to perform our services. In addition, if our operations are perceived to result in high greenhouse gas emissions, our reputation could suffer. Increased regulatory requirements have negatively impacted us and our customers and decreased demand for our services in the past, and may do so in the future, which can adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, current and potential legislative or regulatory initiatives may not result in incremental increased demand for our services, including legislation and regulation that mandate percentages of power to be generated from renewable sources, require utilities to meet reliability standards, and encourage installation of new electric power transmission and renewable energy generation facilities. While these actions and initiatives have positively impacted demand for our services in the past, it is not certain whether they will continue to do so in the future. It is also uncertain as to whether proposed legislative initiatives that could be beneficial for our industries, including those designed to ease regulatory and permitting requirements, will be enacted. Our unionized workforce and related obligations may adversely affect our operations. As of December 31, 2020, approximately 34% of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. For a variety of reasons, our unionized workforce could adversely impact relationships with our customers and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For instance, although the majority of the collective 26 bargaining agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, certain of our unionized employees have participated in strikes and work stoppages in the past and strikes or work stoppages could occur in the future. Our ability to complete future acquisitions also could be adversely affected because of our union status, including because our union agreements may be incompatible with the union agreements of a business we want to acquire or because a business we want to acquire may not want to become affiliated with a union-based company. Additionally, certain of our customers require or prefer a non-union workforce, and they may reduce the amount of work assigned to us if our non-union labor crews become unionized. Our collective bargaining agreements generally require us to participate with other companies in multiemployer pension plans. To the extent a plan is underfunded, we may be subject to substantial liabilities if we withdraw or are deemed to withdraw from the plan or the plan is terminated or experiences a mass withdrawal. For example, we have been involved in several litigation matters associated with our withdrawal from the Central States, Southeast and Southwest Areas Pension Plan, certain of which were settled in 2017. Further, special funding and operational rules are generally applicable to multiemployer plans that are classified as “endangered,” “seriously endangered” or “critical” status based on multiple factors (including, for example, the plan’s funded percentage, cash flow position and a projected minimum funding deficiency). Plans in these classifications must adopt remedial measures, which may require additional contributions from employers (e.g., a surcharge on benefit contributions) and/or modifications to retiree benefits. Certain plans to which we contribute or may contribute in the future have these funding statuses, and we may be obligated to contribute material amounts to these plans in the future, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We could be adversely affected by our failure to comply with the laws applicable to our foreign activities. Applicable U.S. and non-U.S. anti-corruption laws, including but not limited to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), prohibit us from, among other things, corruptly making payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We pursue certain opportunities in countries that experience government corruption, and in certain circumstances, compliance with these laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Our policies mandate compliance with all applicable anti-corruption laws and our procedures and practices are designed to ensure that our employees and intermediaries comply with these laws. However, there can be no assurance that such policies, procedures and practices will protect us from liability under the FCPA or other similar laws for actions or inadvertences by our employees or intermediaries. Liability for such actions or inadvertences could result in severe criminal or civil fines, penalties, forfeitures, disgorgements or other sanctions, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged violations can be expensive and consume significant time and attention of our senior management, in-country management, and other personnel. Compliance with and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to extensive tax liabilities imposed by multiple jurisdictions, including income taxes, indirect taxes (excise/duty, sales/use, gross receipts, and value-added taxes), payroll taxes, franchise taxes, withholding taxes, and ad valorem taxes. New tax laws, treaties and regulations and changes in existing tax laws, treaties and regulations are continuously being enacted or proposed, and significant changes could result from the change in control of the U.S. Congress and presidency in 2021, all of which can result in significant changes to the tax rate on our earnings and have a material impact on our earnings and cash flows from operations. Furthermore, the Biden administration has provided informal guidance on certain tax law changes that it would support, which includes, among other things, raising tax rates on both domestic and foreign income and imposing a new alternative minimum tax on book income. Since future changes to federal and state tax legislation and regulations are unknown, we cannot predict the ultimate impact such changes may have on our business. In addition, significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities, and our tax estimates and tax positions could be materially affected by many factors, including the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation, the introduction of new tax accounting standards, legislation, regulations and related interpretations, our global mix of earnings, our ability to realize deferred tax assets and changes in uncertain tax positions. A significant increase in our tax rate can have a material adverse effect on our profitability and liquidity. Our failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could result in significant liabilities and increased costs. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those dealing with the handling and disposal of waste products, PCBs, fuel storage, water quality and air quality. We perform work in many different types of underground environments. If the field location maps supplied to us are not accurate, or if objects are present in the soil that are not indicated on the field location maps, our underground work could strike objects in the soil, some of which may contain pollutants. These objects may also rupture, resulting in the discharge of pollutants. In such circumstances, we may be liable for fines and damages, and we may be unable to obtain reimbursement from the parties providing the incorrect information. We also perform work, including directional drilling, in and around environmentally sensitive areas such as rivers, lakes and 27 wetlands. Due to the inconsistent nature of the terrain and water bodies, it is possible that such work may cause the release of subsurface materials that contain contaminants in excess of amounts permitted by law, potentially exposing us to remediation costs and fines. Additionally, we own and lease facilities that contain above- and below-ground fuel storage tanks, which could leak and cause us to be responsible for remediation costs and fines. The obligations, liabilities, fines and costs associated with these and other events can be material and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Moreover, new laws and regulations or the stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, including as a result of the change in control of the U.S. Congress and presidency in 2021, as well as the discovery of previously unknown contamination or leaks or the imposition of new clean-up requirements, could require us to incur significant costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities. In certain instances, we have obtained indemnification and other rights from third parties (including predecessors or lessors) for such obligations and liabilities; however, these indemnities may not cover all of our costs and indemnitors may not pay amounts owed to us. Further, in connection with an acquisition, we cannot be certain that we identify all potential environmental liabilities relating to any acquired business when we are negotiating an indemnification right. Certain regulatory requirements applicable to us and certain of our subsidiaries could materially impact our business. We are subject to various specific regulatory regimes and requirements that could result in significant compliance costs and liabilities. As a public company, we are subject to various corporate governance and financial reporting requirements, including requirements for management to report on our internal controls over financial reporting and for our independent registered public accounting firm to express an opinion on the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2020; however, there can be no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will be determined to be effective in future years. Failure to maintain effective internal controls or to identify significant internal control deficiencies in acquired businesses (both prior acquisitions and future acquisitions) could result in a decrease in the market value of our publicly traded securities, a reduced ability to obtain debt and equity financing, a loss of customers, fines or penalties, and/or additional expenditures to meet the requirements or remedy any deficiencies. Additionally, one of our subsidiaries has registered as an investment adviser with the SEC under the U.S. Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (the Advisers Act), which imposes substantive and material restrictions and requirements on the operations of this subsidiary, including certain fiduciary duties that apply to its relationships with its advisory clients. The SEC has broad administrative powers to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations of the Advisers Act, ranging from fines and censures to termination of an adviser’s registration. This subsidiary is also subject to periodic SEC examinations and other requirements, including, among other things, maintaining an effective compliance program, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements and complying with anti-fraud prohibitions. The failure of our subsidiary to comply with the requirements of the Advisers Act could result in fines, suspensions of individual employees or other sanctions against our subsidiary that could have a material adverse effect on us. Even if an investigation or proceeding does not result in a fine or sanction or if a fine or sanction imposed against our subsidiary or its employees were small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity relating to an investigation, proceeding or imposition of these fines or sanctions could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, our wholly-owned captive insurance company is a registered insurance company with the Texas Department of Insurance, and therefore is subject to various rules and regulations and required to meet certain capital requirements, which can result in additional use of our resources. Our postsecondary educational institution is subject to authorization and regulatory oversight in the various states in which it operates, and failure to comply with these requirements could result in significant monetary damages or subject these entities to fines, limitations on operations, injunctions or other penalties. The postsecondary educational institution is also accredited by the Accrediting Commission of Career Schools and Colleges, and loss of accreditation could result in reputational harm or student-initiated litigation or negatively impact our ability to train skilled personnel that can be utilized to support our business. We also collect and retain information about our customers, stockholders, vendors and employees. Legislation and regulatory requirements, as well as contractual commitments, affect how we must store, use, transfer and process the confidential information of our customers, stockholders, vendors and employees. These laws, as well as other new or changing legislative, regulatory or contractual requirements concerning data privacy and protection, could require us to expend significant additional compliance costs, and any failure to comply with such requirements can result in significant liability or harm to our reputation. Opportunities within the government arena could subject us to increased regulation and costs and may pose additional risks relating to future funding and compliance. Most government contracts are awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process, which can often be more time consuming than the bidding process for non-governmental projects. Additionally, involvement with government contracts could 28 require a significant amount of costs to be incurred before any revenues are realized. We are also subject to numerous procurement rules and other public sector regulations when we contract with certain governmental agencies, any deemed violation of which could lead to fines or penalties or a loss of business. Government agencies routinely audit and investigate government contractors and may review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. If a government agency determines that costs were improperly allocated to specific contracts, such costs will not be reimbursed or a refund of previously reimbursed costs may be required. If a government agency alleges or proves improper activity, civil and criminal penalties could be imposed and serious reputational harm could result. Many government contracts must be appropriated each year, and without re-appropriation we would not realize all of the potential revenues from any awarded contracts. Additionally, U.S. government shutdowns or any related under-staffing of the government departments or agencies that interact with our business could result in program cancellations, disruptions and/or stop work orders, could limit the government’s ability to effectively progress programs and make timely payments, and could limit our ability to perform on our existing U.S. government contracts and successfully compete for new work. Immigration laws, including our inability to verify employment eligibility and restrictions on movement of our foreign employees, could adversely affect our business or reputation. We employ a significant number of employees, and while we utilize processes to assist in verifying the employment eligibility of potential new employees so that we maintain compliance with applicable laws, it is possible some of our employees may be unauthorized workers. In addition, we utilize certain non-immigrant visas to allow us to temporarily transfer certain of our foreign employees to the United States. The employment of unauthorized workers or failure to comply with the requirements of these non-immigrant visas could subject us to fines, penalties and other costs, as well as result in adverse publicity that negatively impacts our reputation and brand and may make it more difficult to hire and retain qualified employees. Furthermore, to the extent we are subject to penalties or delays that prevent the future transfer of our foreign employees to the United States, we may incur additional costs to hire and train new employees. For example, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have experienced delays and restrictions due to immigration processes that have prevented certain foreign workers from entering and working in the United States. Immigration laws have also been an area of considerable political focus in recent years, and, from time-to-time, the U.S. government considers or implements changes to federal immigration laws, regulations or enforcement programs. Changes in immigration or work authorization laws may increase our obligations for compliance and oversight, which could subject us to additional costs and potential liability and make our hiring and employee transfer processes more cumbersome, or reduce the availability of potential employees. Risks Related to Financing Our Business We may not have access in the future to sufficient funding to finance desired growth and operations. If we cannot secure future funds or financing on acceptable terms or generate sufficient cash flow, we may be unable to support our future operations or growth strategy. The timing of our funding needs and the size of our operations and strategic initiatives that require capital cannot be readily predicted and may be substantial. We also rely on financing companies to fund the leasing of certain of our equipment, and credit market conditions may restrict access to capital for the leasing of additional equipment. A lack of available capital to fund the leasing of equipment could negatively impact our future operations. The credit agreement for our senior credit facility and the indenture for our 2.900% Senior Notes due October 1, 2030 contain certain restrictions, including financial covenants and other restrictions on our ability to borrow amounts under the credit agreement and limitations on our ability to incur additional debt or conduct certain types of preferred equity financings. Our ability to increase the current commitments under our senior credit facility is also dependent upon additional commitments from our lenders. Furthermore, if we seek additional debt or equity financings, we cannot be certain they will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all, as banks are often restrictive in their lending practices, and our ability to access capital markets for financing could be limited by, among other things, our existing capital structure, our credit ratings, the state of the economy, the health of our industries, and the liquidity of the capital markets. For example, fluctuations in economic, political and market conditions as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic impacted lenders and capital markets during portions of 2020. If we are unable to borrow under our senior credit facility or secure other financing or if our lenders become unable or unwilling to fund their commitments to us, we may not be able to access the capital needed to fund our growth and operations, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For additional information on the terms of our senior credit facility and senior notes due 2030, please read Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Debt Instruments. Additionally, the market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past, and may fluctuate significantly in the future, in response to various factors, including events beyond our control, which could impact our ability to utilize capital markets to obtain funds. A variety of events may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly, including overall market conditions or volatility, actual or perceived negative financial results or other unfavorable information relating to us or our market peers, and the other risks described in this Annual Report. 29 We have a significant amount of debt, and our significant indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under our other debt. We have a significant amount of debt and debt service requirements. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately $1.18 billion of outstanding long-term debt, and we had $2.01 billion of undrawn borrowing capacity under our senior credit facility. This level of debt could have significant consequences on our future operations, including: • making it more difficult for us to meet our payment and other obligations under our outstanding debt; • resulting in an event of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our debt agreements, which event of default could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable; • reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or strategic investments, dividends and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; • subjecting us to the risk of increasing interest expense on variable rate indebtedness, including borrowings under our senior credit facility; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to changes in our business, the industries in which we operate and the general economy; • limiting our ability to pursue business opportunities that become available to us; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged. Any of the above-listed factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations on our existing indebtedness. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our operations to pay our indebtedness. Our ability to generate cash in order to make scheduled payments on the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. In addition, our ability to borrow funds in the future to make payments on our debt will depend on the satisfaction of the covenants in our senior credit facility and our other financing and other agreements we may enter into in the future. Specifically, we will need to maintain certain financial ratios. Our business may not continue to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future and future borrowings may not be available to us under our senior credit facility or from other sources in an amount sufficient to service our indebtedness to make necessary capital expenditures or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to generate cash from our operations or through borrowings, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness or refinance our indebtedness will depend on factors including the state of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time, as well as the terms of our financing agreements. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk. Borrowings under our senior credit facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness will increase even if the amount borrowed remains the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. Our weighted average interest rate on our variable rate debt for the year ended December 31, 2020 was 2.1%. The annual effect on our pretax earnings of a hypothetical 50 basis point increase or decrease in variable interest rates would be approximately $0.7 million based on our December 31, 2020 balance of variable rate debt. Additionally, to address the transition in financial markets away from the London Interest Bank Offered Rate (LIBOR) by the end of 2021, our senior credit facility agreement includes provisions related to the replacement of LIBOR with a LIBOR Successor Rate (as defined in the credit agreement for such facility), which may be a rate based on the secured overnight financing rate published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. If no LIBOR Successor Rate has been determined at the time certain circumstances are present, the lenders’ obligation to make or maintain loans based on a Eurocurrency rate could be suspended, and loans in U.S. dollars would default to the Base Rate (as described in Senior Credit Facility within Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ) rather than a rate using the Eurocurrency Rate. Changing to an alternative interest rate or to the Base Rate may lead to additional volatility in interest rates and could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. If this were to occur, our available liquidity and cash flows could be negatively impacted. 30 We may be unable to compete for projects if we are not able to obtain surety bonds, letters of credit or bank guarantees. A portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety bonds, letters of credit, bank guarantees or other financial assurances. Current or future market conditions, including losses incurred in the construction industry or as a result of large corporate bankruptcies, as well as changes in our sureties’ assessment of our operating and financial risk, could cause our surety providers and lenders to decline to issue or renew, or substantially reduce the amount of, bid or performance bonds for our work and could increase our costs associated with collateral. These actions could be taken on short notice. If our surety providers or lenders were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, letters of credit or guarantees, our alternatives would include seeking capacity from other sureties and lenders or finding more business that does not require bonds or that allows for other forms of collateral for project performance, such as cash. We may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all, which could affect our ability to bid for or work on future projects requiring financial assurances. Under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue or continue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing bonds. If we were to experience an interruption or reduction in the availability of bonding capacity as a result of these or other reasons, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects that require bonding. A downgrade in our debt rating could restrict our ability to access the capital markets. The terms of our financings are, in part, dependent on the credit ratings assigned to our debt by independent credit rating agencies. We cannot provide assurance that our current credit rating will remain in effect for any given period of time or that it will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. Factors that may impact our credit rating include, among other things, our debt levels and liquidity, capital structure, financial performance, planned asset purchases or sales, near- and long-term growth opportunities, customer base and market position, geographic diversity, regulatory environment, project performance and risk profile. A downgrade in our credit rating, particularly to non-investment grade levels, could limit our ability to access the debt capital markets or refinance our existing debt or cause us to refinance or issue debt with less favorable terms and conditions. An increase in the level of our indebtedness and related interest costs may increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions and may affect our ability to obtain additional financing, as well as have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our sale or issuance of additional common stock or other equity-related securities could dilute each stockholder’s ownership interest or adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We often fund a significant portion of the consideration paid in connection with our acquisitions with the issuance of additional equity securities, including contingent consideration amounts payable if acquired businesses achieve certain performance objectives during specified post-acquisition periods. We also utilize stock-based compensation as a key component of our compensation program. We expect to issue additional equity securities in the future in connection with these and other practices. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that we may issue up to 600,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 138,300,191 shares were outstanding as of December 31, 2020. Any additional issuances of common stock would have the effect of diluting our earnings per share and our existing stockholders’ individual ownership percentages and lead to volatility in the market price of our common stock. We cannot predict the effect that future issuances of our common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our common stock. There can be no assurance that we will declare or pay future dividends on our common stock. The declaration, amount and timing of future dividends are subject to capital availability and determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all respective laws and applicable agreements. Our ability to declare and pay dividends will depend upon, among other factors, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, current and anticipated expansion plans, requirements under Delaware law and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. A reduction in or elimination of our dividend payments could have a material negative effect on our stock price . Certain provisions of our corporate governing documents could make an acquisition of our company more difficult. The following provisions of our charter documents, as currently in effect, and Delaware law could discourage potential proposals to acquire us, delay or prevent a change in control of us or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock: • our certificate of incorporation permits our Board of Directors to issue “blank check” preferred stock and to adopt amendments to our bylaws; 31 • our bylaws contain restrictions regarding the right of stockholders to nominate directors and to submit proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings; • our certificate of incorporation and bylaws restrict the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to act by written consent; and • we are subject to provisions of Delaware law which restrict us from engaging in any of a broad range of business transactions with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years following the date such stockholder became classified as an interested stockholder.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our historical consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data . The discussion below contains forward-looking statements that are based upon our current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to inaccurate assumptions and known or unknown risks and uncertainties, including those identified in Cautionary Statement About Forward-Looking Statements and Information above and Item 1A. Risk Factors . Overview We are a leading provider of specialty contracting services, delivering comprehensive infrastructure solutions for the electric and gas utility, communications, pipeline and energy industries in the United States, Canada, Australia and select other international markets. The performance of our business generally depends on our ability to obtain contracts with customers and to effectively deliver the services provided under those contracts. The services we provide include the design, engineering, new construction, upgrade and repair and maintenance of infrastructure within each of the industries we serve, such as electric power transmission and distribution networks; substation facilities; communications and cable multi-system operator networks; gas utility systems; and pipeline transmission systems and facilities. Our customers include many of the leading companies in the industries we serve, and we endeavor to develop and maintain strategic alliances and preferred service provider status with our customers. Our services are typically provided pursuant to master service agreements, repair and maintenance contracts and fixed price and non-fixed price new construction contracts. We report our results under two reportable segments: (1) Electric Power Infrastructure Solutions and (2) Underground Utility and Infrastructure Solutions, as further described in Item 1. Business – Reportable Segments . This structure is generally focused on broad end-user markets for our services. Included within the Electric Power Infrastructure Solutions segment are the results related to our communications infrastructure services. Current Year Financial Results and Significant Operational Trends and Events Key financial results for the year ended December 31, 2020 included: • Consolidated revenues decreased 7.5% to $11.20 billion as compared to $12.11 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019; • Operating income increased 10.2%, or $56.5 million, to $611.4 million as compared to $554.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2019; • Net income attributable to common stock increased 10.8%, or $43.6 million, to $445.6 million as compared to $402.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2019; • Diluted earnings per share increased 12.5%, or $0.34, to $3.07 as compared to $2.73 for the year ended December 31, 2019; • EBITDA (a non-GAAP measure) increased 10%, or $85.8 million, to $922.7 million as compared to $836.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, and adjusted EBITDA (a non-GAAP measure) increased 11%, or $108.1 million, to $1.05 billion as compared to $941.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2019; • Net cash provided by operating activities increased 111.9%, or $589.4 million, to $1.12 billion as compared to $526.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2019; • Remaining performance obligations decreased 24.8%, or $1.32 billion, to $3.99 billion as of December 31, 2020 as compared to $5.30 billion as of December 31, 2019; and • Total backlog (a non-GAAP measure) increased 0.8%, or $127.5 million, to $15.13 billion as of December 31, 2020 as compared to $15.00 billion as of December 31, 2019. For a reconciliation of EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA to net income attributable to common stock, their most comparable GAAP measure, and a reconciliation of backlog to remaining performance obligations, its most comparable GAAP measure, see Non-GAAP Reconciliations below. 36 During 2020, we were impacted by certain significant operational trends and events as compared to 2019 as described below. Electric Power Infrastructure Solutions Segment • Revenues increased by 9.1% to $7.77 billion, as compared to $7.12 billion. Overall, revenues increased as a result of continued favorable dynamics across our core utility market and increased demand for our electric power services, including a $220 million increase in emergency restoration services revenues and a $125 million increase in revenues from our North American communication operations. We also recognized approximately $175 million of incremental revenues from acquired businesses and increased revenues from larger transmission projects in Canada. • Operating income increased by 39.8% to $826.3 million, as compared to $591.2 million, and operating income as a percentage of revenues increased to 10.6% as compared to 8.3%. Operating income increased primarily due to improved performance across the segment and increased emergency restoration services and Canadian revenues, both of which contributed to improved equipment utilization and fixed cost absorption as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, which was negatively impacted by elevated levels of unabsorbed costs due to severe weather and other delays on certain larger transmission projects in Canada. • Operating income was negatively impacted in both periods by our Latin American operations, which have been adversely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic due to shelter-in-place restrictions and other work disruptions. As a result of these factors, we accelerated various contract terminations and other activities in order to expedite cessation of operations in the region. We substantially completed our exit of this market as of December 31, 2020. During the year ended December 31, 2020, these operations generated an operating loss of $74.0 million. During the year ended December 31, 2019, these operations generated an operating loss of $85.7 million, which included the recognition of a $79.2 million charge associated with a terminated telecommunications project in Peru, composed of a $48.8 million reversal of revenues and a $30.4 million increase in cost of services. See Business Environment below for additional information and discussion related to the exit of our Latin American operations. Underground Utility and Infrastructure Solutions Segment • Revenues decreased by 31.3% to $3.43 billion, as compared to $4.99 billion. • Revenues associated with larger pipeline projects decreased by approximately $830 million as a result of the industry entering the late-stage of the current construction cycle, as well as the next cycle of projects being delayed due to various factors, including among other things, permitting delays and worksite access limitations related to environmental regulations. • The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic contributed to the decline in revenues and operating income. Specifically, shelter-in-place and worksite access restrictions in major metropolitan areas caused short-term disruptions for our gas utility customers in the first half of 2020, and a lack of demand for refined products during 2020 resulted in project delays and deferrals that negatively impacted our high pressure and critical-path turn around services to the downstream and midstream energy markets. • Revenues were favorably impacted by approximately $230 million of incremental revenues from acquired businesses. • Operating income decreased by 48.8% to $170.1 million, as compared to $332.0 million, and operating income as a percentage of revenues decreased to 5.0%, as compared to 6.7%. Operating income and operating income as a percentage of revenues decreased primarily due to the decrease in revenues and the adverse effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and the overall challenged energy market on our operations. During 2019, our results were also impacted by the recognition of $60.3 million ($43.9 million net of tax) of previously deferred earnings as a result of the completion of a larger transmission project in Canada and the subsequent recognition of a $13.0 million gain ($20.7 million with favorable tax benefits) related to the sale of our interest in such project. The gross amounts related to which are recorded as equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates included in “Other income (expense), net” in our consolidated statements of operations. See COVID-19 Pandemic – Response and Impact, Results of Operations and Liquidity and Capital Resources below for additional information and discussion related to our consolidated and segment results. 37 Debt Issuance and Amendment and Extension of Senior Credit Facility On September 22, 2020, we issued $1.00 billion aggregate principal amount of 2.900% Senior Notes due October 1, 2030 (the senior notes) and received proceeds of $986.7 million, net of the original issue discount, underwriting discounts and debt issuance costs. We used the net proceeds, together with cash on hand, to voluntarily prepay $1.21 billion of term loans then-outstanding under our senior credit facility, which had a maturity date in October 2022. Additionally, we entered into an amendment to the credit agreement for our senior credit facility (the credit agreement) that, among other things, increased the aggregate revolving commitments from $2.14 billion to $2.51 billion, extended the maturity date from October 31, 2022 to September 22, 2025, released the liens on the collateral securing our obligations thereunder, released the subsidiary guarantors from their guarantees of such obligations and removed the collateral reinstatement provision that would have applied in the event our corporate credit rating were to fall below an investment grade rating. See Liquidity and Capital Resources – Debt Instruments for additional information on the senior notes issuance and the amendment to our credit agreement. Recent Acquisitions We continue to selectively evaluate acquisitions as part of our overall business strategy and acquired seven businesses in the year ended December 31, 2020. These acquired businesses enhanced and expanded, among other things, our services related electric power distribution, transmission and substation maintenance; our directional boring and emergency restoration services capabilities; our engineering and design services for electric utilities, gas utilities and communications services companies; our aviation services for the utility industry; our capabilities with respect to underground conduit services and short- and long-haul fiber optic cable and utilities; our services to provide heavy, civil, industrial and energy related services and construction and maintenance of pipelines and metering stations; and our industrial services business. During the year ended December 31, 2020, revenues were positively impacted by approximately $405 million from acquired businesses. Puerto Rico Joint Venture Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2020, a joint venture in which we own a 50% interest, LUMA Energy, LLC (LUMA), was selected for a 15-year operation and maintenance agreement to operate, maintain and modernize the approximately 18,000-mile electric transmission and distribution system in Puerto Rico. The 15-year operation and maintenance period is scheduled to begin following a transition period that is expected to end in mid-2021. During the transition period, LUMA will complete numerous steps necessary to transition operation and maintenance from the current operator and receives a fixed transition services fee, payable in monthly installments, and is reimbursed for costs and expenses. During the operation and maintenance period, LUMA will continue to be reimbursed for costs and expenses and will receive a fixed annual management fee, with the opportunity to receive additional annual performance-based incentive fees. LUMA will not assume ownership of any electric transmission and distribution system assets and will not be responsible for operation of the power generation assets. LUMA is operationally integral to our operations, and therefore our share of LUMA’s net income or losses is reported within operating income and reflected within the Electric Power Infrastructure Solutions segment. COVID-19 Pandemic – Response and Impact During 2020 and the first part of 2021, the COVID-19 pandemic has significantly impacted global economies, resulting in workforce and travel restrictions, supply chain and production disruptions and reduced demand and spending across many sectors. We continue to operate substantially all of our activities as a provider of essential services. In response to the pandemic, we have implemented proactive measures to protect the health and safety of our employees, such as the adoption of specialized training initiatives and the utilization of additional protective equipment for our employees operating in the field and additional sanitation measures for our offices, vehicles and equipment, as well as reduced non-essential business travel, applied work-from-home policies where appropriate and developed other human resource guidance to help employees. During 2020, our results were adversely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic as a result of disruptions in our operations created by shelter-in-place restrictions in certain service areas, primarily during the first and second quarters of 2020 and in major U.S. metropolitan markets that have been meaningfully impacted by the pandemic. While the significant adverse impacts resulting from these shelter-in-place restrictions subsided in the second half of 2020, the possibility of future restrictions remains. The COVID-19 pandemic has also compounded broader challenges in the energy market that are affecting portions of our Underground Utility and Infrastructure Solutions segment. In particular, demand for our midstream and industrial services operations has declined as customers are reducing and deferring regularly scheduled maintenance and capital projects due to lack of demand for refined products. This dynamic had a materially negative impact on segment results during 2020 and is expected to continue to negatively impact segment results in 2021. We have also experienced permitting and regulatory delays for projects due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and the pandemic has negatively impacted our Latin American operations due to shelter-in-place restrictions and other work disruptions in the region. We are focused on maintaining a strong balance sheet to help us navigate the challenges presented by the COVID-19 pandemic. As of December 31, 2020, we had $184.6 million of cash and cash equivalents and $2.01 billion of availability under 38 our senior credit facility. We generated $1.12 billion and $526.6 million in cash flow from operations in the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019. We continue to manage our costs through, among other things, reductions in discretionary spending, reductions in workforce at operations experiencing challenges, hiring and compensation increase deferrals, and deferrals of non-essential capital expenditures. Capital expenditures for 2020 were $260.1 million, which was $39.9 million less than our original estimate at the beginning of 2020. We plan to continue to maintain capital discipline and monitor rapidly changing market dynamics and adjust our costs and financing strategies accordingly, and we expect capital expenditures for 2021 to be approximately $325 million. As a result of the currently challenged energy market and recent oil price volatility, as well as the exacerbating effect of the COVID-19 pandemic, we assessed the expected negative impacts related to goodwill, intangible assets, long-lived assets, and investments as of the end of each quarter during 2020, including at December 31, 2020. We recognized $18.0 million of impairments related to investments during the first and second quarters of 2020, as described further in Results of Operations below, and concluded that the impact of these effects was not likely to result in any other impairments of such assets at this time. As described further in Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, we also performed our annual goodwill impairment test during the fourth quarter of 2020. We concluded that, although the fair value of certain reporting units within the Underground Utility and Infrastructure Solutions Division did not exceed their book value by 10% or more, no goodwill impairments had occurred as of December 31, 2020. We are continuing to monitor the actual and forecasted financial results of our reporting units, and the potential future impacts are uncertain and may change based on numerous factors. During 2020, the U.S. federal government also enacted the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the CARES Act), which provides for various tax relief and tax incentive measures. These measures are not expected to have a material impact on our results of operations. However, pursuant to the CARES Act , we deferred the payment of $108.9 million of the employer portion of payroll taxes during the year ended December 31, 2020, 50% of which are due by December 31, 2021 and the remainder of which are due by December 31, 2022. The broader and longer-term implications of the COVID-19 pandemic on our results of operations and overall financial performance and position remain highly uncertain and variable, and we expect continued operational challenges in 2021 for portions of our operations as we continue to operate during this unprecedented and unpredictable health and economic environment. The future impact that the pandemic, or any resulting market disruption and volatility, will have on our business, cash flows, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations will depend on future developments, including, among others, the ongoing spread of COVID-19 and the duration and severity of the pandemic; the development, availability and administration of effective treatments and vaccines; the actions taken by governmental authorities, customers, suppliers and other third parties and the consequences of those actions; our workforce availability in light of potential increased spread of COVID-19; and the timing and extent to which normal economic and operating conditions resume and continue. For additional discussion regarding risks associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, see Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report. Business Environment Despite the challenges presented by the COVID-19 pandemic, we believe there are long-term growth opportunities across our industries, and we continue to have a positive long-term outlook. Although not without risks and challenges, including those discussed in Overview and Cautionary Statement About Forward-Looking Statements and Information above and Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report, we believe, with our full-service operations, broad geographic reach, financial position and technical expertise, we are well positioned to capitalize on opportunities and trends in our industries. Electric Power Infrastructure Solutions Segment .  Utilities are investing significant capital in their electric power delivery systems, particularly transmission, substation and distribution infrastructure, through multi-year, multi-billion dollar grid modernization and reliability programs, which have provided, and are expected to continue to provide, demand for our services. Utilities are accommodating a changing fuel generation mix that is moving toward more sustainable sources such as renewables and natural gas and replacing aging infrastructure to support long-term economic growth. In order to reliably and efficiently deliver power, and in response to federal reliability standards, utilities are also integrating smart grid technologies into distribution systems in order to improve grid management and create efficiencies, and in preparation for emerging technologies such as electric vehicles. A number of utilities have and continue to implement system upgrades or hardening programs in response to recurring severe weather events, such as hurricanes and wildfires, and in particular there are significant system resiliency initiatives in California and other regions in the western U.S. underway that are designed to prevent and manage the impact of wildfires. These resiliency initiatives provide additional opportunities for our services; however, they also increase our potential exposure to significant liabilities attributable to those events. While the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in an overall decline in electricity usage in the near term, primarily related to commercial and industrial users, we expect demand for electricity in North America to grow over the long term and believe that certain segments of the North American electric power grid are not adequate to efficiently serve the power needs of the future. Furthermore, to the extent that electrification trends increase, including electric vehicle (EV) adoption, demand for electricity 39 could be greater than currently anticipated. As demand for power increases, we also expect an increase in new power generation facilities powered by renewable energy sources (e.g. solar and wind) and certain traditional energy sources (e.g., natural gas). To the extent this dynamic continues, we expect continued demand for new or expanded transmission and substation infrastructure to transport power and interconnect new generation facilities and the modification and reengineering of existing infrastructure as existing coal and nuclear generation facilities are retired or shut down. With respect to our communications service offerings, consumer and commercial demand for communication and data-intensive, high-bandwidth wireline and wireless services and applications is driving significant investment in infrastructure and the deployment of new technologies. In particular, communications providers in North America are in the early stages of developing new fifth generation wireless services (5G), which are intended to facilitate bandwidth-intensive services at high speeds for consumers and a wide range of commercial applications. Additionally, the Federal Communications Commission has enacted a program to deploy more than $20 billion in federal funds to bring high speed fixed broadband service to underserved rural homes and small businesses through the Rural Digital Opportunity Fund. As a result of these industry trends, we believe there will be meaningful demand for our engineering and construction services in that market. We have strategically focused our communications services on the North American market, and during 2019 and 2020 we have substantially completed the exit of our Latin American communications operations. While we have incurred costs related to exiting these operations, we anticipate this decision will result in improved profitability of our overall services offerings. Underground Utility and Infrastructure Solutions Segment. For several years we have focused on increasing our underground utility and infrastructure solutions related to specialty services and industries that we believe are driven by regulated utility spending, regulation, replacement and rehabilitation of aging infrastructure and safety and environmental initiatives, which we believe provide a greater level of business sustainability and predictability. These service offerings include gas utility services, pipeline integrity services and downstream industrial services, all of which we have expanded through organic growth, geographic expansion initiatives and select acquisitions. This strategy is also intended to mitigate the seasonality and cyclicality of our larger pipeline project activities, which we are not strategically investing in but continue to pursue to the extent they satisfy our margin and risk profiles and support the needs of our customers. As discussed in COVID-19 Pandemic - Response and Impact, though we experienced short-term disruptions in 2020 due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in certain metropolitan markets, we believe demand for our gas utility distribution services will increase as a result of customer desire to upgrade and replace aging infrastructure, lower natural gas prices, and increasing regulatory requirements. In particular, natural gas utilities have implemented multi-decade modernization programs to replace aging cast iron, bare steel, gas and plastic system infrastructure with modern materials for safety, reliability and environmental purposes. We believe there are also growth opportunities for our pipeline integrity, rehabilitation and replacement services, as regulatory measures have increased the frequency or stringency of pipeline integrity testing requirements. Regulatory requirements continue to mandate or require our customers to test, inspect, repair, maintain and replace pipeline infrastructure to ensure that it operates safely, reliably and in an environmentally conscious manner. Further, permitting challenges associated with construction of new pipelines can make existing pipeline infrastructure more valuable, motivating owners to extend the useful life of existing pipeline assets through integrity initiatives. Due to these dynamics, we expect demand to continue to grow for our pipeline integrity services. The COVID-19 pandemic and challenging overall energy market conditions have resulted in an overall decline in global demand for refined products during 2020 and thus far in 2021, which has negatively impacted our critical path services and related specialty services to refinery and chemical processing facilities that are primarily along the Gulf Coast of the United States and in other select markets in North America. While demand for our critical path catalyst services has remained solid, in the second half of 2020 customers began reducing onsite activity for our other services and have deferred maintenance and certain turnaround projects to late 2021 and 2022. We believe there are significant long-term opportunities for our services, including our high-pressure and critical-path turnaround services, as well as our capabilities with respect to instrumentation and electrical services, piping, fabrication and storage tanks services, and other industrial services, and that processing facilities located along the U.S. Gulf Coast region should have certain long-term strategic advantages due to their proximity to affordable hydrocarbon resources. However, these processing facilities can also be negatively impacted for short-term periods due to severe weather events, such as hurricanes, tropical storms and floods. The broader oil and gas industry is highly cyclical and subject to price volatility, such as the current low commodity price environment, which can impact demand for our services. For example, certain of our end markets where the price of oil is influential, such as Australia, the Canadian Oil Sands and certain oil-driven U.S. shale formations, have been materially impacted by the current challenged energy market. Furthermore, we have entered the late-stage of the current construction cycle of larger pipeline projects, as well as the next cycle of projects are being delayed due to various factors including, among other things, permitting delays and worksite access limitations related to environmental regulations. For example, during 2020 an approximately 600-mile natural gas pipeline under construction in the eastern United States, for which we had been contracted 40 to construct a portion of, was terminated due to, among other things, continued regulatory delay and risk. As such, our revenues related to larger pipeline projects have declined significantly over the last few years, including by approximately $830 million from 2019 to 2020. Due to its abundant supply and current low price, we believe natural gas will remain a fuel of choice for both primary power generation and backup power generation for renewable-driven power plants in North America. The favorable characteristics of natural gas also position North America as a leading competitor in the global LNG export market, which has the potential to continue to grow over the coming years as approved and proposed LNG export facilities are developed. In certain areas, the existing pipeline system infrastructure is insufficient to support these expected future developments, which could provide additional opportunities for our services. Regulatory Challenges and Opportunities . The regulatory environment creates both challenges and opportunities for our business, and in recent years electric power and underground utility infrastructure margins have been impacted by regulatory and permitting delays in certain periods, particularly with respect to larger electric transmission and larger pipeline projects. Regulatory and environmental permitting processes continue to create uncertainty for projects and negatively impact customer spending, and delays have increased as the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted regulatory agency operations. For example, during 2020 a federal district court ruling vacated the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Clean Water Act Section 404 Nationwide Permit 12, which has impacted certain projects and could result in increased costs and project interruptions or delays if we or our customers are forced to seek individual permits from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. However, we believe that there are also several existing, pending or proposed legislative or regulatory actions that may alleviate certain regulatory and permitting issues and positively impact long-term demand, particularly in connection with electric power infrastructure and renewable energy spending. For example, regulatory changes affecting siting and right-of-way processes could potentially accelerate construction for transmission projects, and state and federal reliability standards are creating incentives for system investment and maintenance. We also consider renewable energy, including solar and wind generation facilities, to be an ongoing opportunity for our engineering, project management and installation services; however, the economic feasibility of some of these projects remains subject to the continued availability of tax incentive programs. Labor Resource Availability . In addition to the health and safety measures we are taking to ensure labor resource availability during the COVID-19 pandemic, we continue to address the longer-term need for additional labor resources in our markets. Our customers continue to seek additional specialized labor resources to address an aging utility workforce and longer-term labor availability issues, increasing pressure to reduce costs and improve reliability, and increasing duration and complexity of their capital programs. We believe these trends will continue, possibly to the point where demand for labor resources will outpace supply. Furthermore, the cyclical nature of the natural gas and oil industry can create shortages of qualified labor in those markets during periods of high demand. Our ability to capitalize on available opportunities is limited by our ability to employ, train and retain the necessary skilled personnel, and we are taking proactive steps to develop our workforce, including through strategic relationships with universities, the military and unions and the expansion and development of our training facility and postsecondary educational institution. Although we believe these initiatives will help address workforce needs, meeting our customers’ demand for labor resources could remain challenging. Acquisitions and Investments. We believe potential acquisition and investment opportunities exist in our industries and adjacent industries, primarily due to the highly fragmented and evolving nature of those industries and inability of many companies to expand due to capital or liquidity constraints. We continue to evaluate opportunities that are expected to, among other things, broaden our customer base, expand our geographic area of operations, and grow and diversify our portfolio of services. Significant Factors Impacting Results Our revenues, margins and other results of operations can be influenced by a variety of factors in any given period, including those described in Cautionary Statement About Forward-Looking Statements and Information above and Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report, and those factors have caused fluctuations in our results in the past and are expected to cause fluctuations in our results in the future. Additional information with respect to certain of those factors is provided below. Seasonality. Typically, our revenues are lowest in the first quarter of the year because cold, snowy or wet conditions can create challenging working environments that are more costly for our customers or cause delays on projects. In addition, infrastructure projects often do not begin in a meaningful way until our customers finalize their capital budgets, which typically occurs during the first quarter. Second quarter revenues are typically higher than those in the first quarter, as some projects begin, but continued cold and wet weather can often impact productivity. Third quarter revenues are typically the highest of the year, as a greater number of projects are underway and operating conditions, including weather, are normally more accommodating. Generally, revenues during the fourth quarter are lower than the third quarter but higher than the second quarter, as many projects are completed and customers often seek to spend their capital budgets before year end. However, the holiday season and inclement weather can sometimes cause delays during the fourth quarter, reducing revenues and increasing 41 costs. These seasonal impacts are typical for our U.S. operations, but seasonality for our international operations may differ. For example, revenues in Canada are typically higher in the first quarter because projects are often accelerated in order to complete work while the ground is frozen and prior to the break up, or seasonal thaw, as productivity is adversely affected by wet ground conditions during warmer months. Additionally, as referenced above in COVID-19 Pandemic – Response and Impact , portions of our operations experienced significant challenges during the second quarter of 2020 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, which impacted typical seasonality, and we believe that the ongoing impact of the pandemic could impact our typical seasonality in 2021. Weather, natural disasters and emergencies. The results of our business in a given period can be impacted by adverse weather conditions, severe weather events, natural disasters or other emergencies, which include, among other things, heavy or prolonged snowfall or rainfall, hurricanes, tropical storms, tornadoes, floods, blizzards, extreme temperatures, wildfires, pandemics (including the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic) and earthquakes. These conditions and events can negatively impact our financial results due to, among other things, the termination, deferral or delay of projects, reduced productivity and exposure to significant liabilities. See COVID-19 Pandemic – Response and Impact above for further discussion regarding the current and expected impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, in some cases, severe weather events can increase our emergency restoration services, which typically yield higher margins due in part to higher equipment utilization and absorption of fixed costs. Demand for services . We perform the majority of our services under existing contracts, such as master service agreements (MSAs) and/or strategic alliances, pursuant to which our customers assign work to us over the term of the agreement. Typically under our MSAs and similar agreements, our customers are not committed to specific volumes of our services. Therefore, our volume of business can be positively or negatively affected by fluctuations in demand for our services, which may vary by geographic region. For example, to the extent our customers accelerate grid modernization or hardening programs or face deadlines to meet regulatory requirements for rehabilitation, reliability or efficiency, our volume of work could increase under existing agreements. Also, as described above in COVID 19 Pandemic – Response and Impact, we have experienced reductions in demand for certain of our services as a result of disruptions due to shelter-in-place and worksite access restrictions and delays in regulatory agency operations due to the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as the decline in commodity prices and decreased demand for refined products. Examples of other items that may cause demand for our services to fluctuate materially from quarter to quarter include: the financial condition of our customers, their capital spending and their access to capital; economic and political conditions on a regional, national or global scale, including interest rates, governmental regulations affecting the sourcing of certain materials and equipment, and other changes in U.S. and global trade relationships; and project deferrals and cancellations. Revenue mix and impact on margins. The mix of revenues based on the types of services we provide in a given period will impact margins, as certain industries and services provide higher-margin opportunities. Larger or more complex projects with higher voltage capacities; larger-diameter throughput capacities; increased engineering, design or construction complexities; more difficult terrain or geographical requirements; or longer distance requirements typically yield opportunities for higher margins than our recurring services described above, as we assume a greater degree of performance risk and there is greater utilization of our resources for longer construction timeframes. However, larger projects are subject to additional risk of regulatory delay and cyclicality. For example, our revenues with respect to larger electric transmission and pipeline projects have declined significantly in recent years, and a significant number of larger projects have been delayed or cancelled during that same period. Project schedules also fluctuate, particularly in connection with larger, more complex or longer-term projects, which can affect the amount of work performed in a given period. Furthermore, smaller or less complex projects typically have a greater number of companies competing for them, and competitors at times may more aggressively pursue available work. A greater percentage of smaller scale or less complex work also could negatively impact margins due to the inefficiency of transitioning between a larger number of smaller projects versus continuous production on fewer larger projects. As a result, at times we may choose to maintain a portion of our workforce and equipment in an underutilized capacity to ensure we are strategically positioned to deliver on larger projects when they move forward. Project variability and performance. Margins for a single project may fluctuate period to period due to changes in the volume or type of work performed, the pricing structure under the project contract or job productivity. Additionally, our productivity and performance on a project can vary period to period based on a number of factors, including unexpected project difficulties or site conditions (including in connection with difficult geographic characteristics); project location, including locations with challenging operating conditions; whether the work is on an open or encumbered right of way; inclement weather or severe weather events; environmental restrictions or regulatory delays; protests, other political activity or legal challenges related to a project; and the performance of third parties. Moreover, we currently generate, and expect to continue generating, a significant portion of our revenues under fixed price contracts, and fixed price contracts are more common in connection with our larger and more complex projects that typically involve greater performance risk. Under these contracts, we assume risks related to project estimates and execution, and project revenues can vary, sometimes substantially, from our original projections due to a variety of factors, including the additional complexity, timing uncertainty or extended bidding, regulatory and 42 permitting processes associated with these projects. These variations can result in a reduction in expected profit or the incurrence of losses on a project, and as discussed in further detail in Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplemental Data of this Annual Report, we have experienced significant project losses in connection with fixed price contracts that have impacted our results. Subcontract work and provision of materials. Work that is subcontracted to other service providers generally yields lower margins, and therefore an increase in subcontract work in a given period can decrease margins. In recent years, we have subcontracted approximately 15% to 20% of our work to other service providers. Our customers are usually responsible for supplying the materials for their projects; however, under some contracts we agree to procure all or part of the required materials. Margins may be lower on projects where we furnish a significant amount of materials, including projects where we provide engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) services, as our markup on materials is generally lower than our markup on labor costs. Furthermore, fluctuations in the price or availability of materials and equipment we or our customers procure, including as a result of changes in U.S. or global trade relationships, governmental regulations affecting the sourcing of certain materials and equipment or other economic or political conditions, may impact our margins or cause delays. In a given period, an increase in the percentage of work with higher materials procurement requirements may decrease our overall margins. Foreign currency risk. Our financial performance is reported on a U.S. dollar-denominated basis but is partially subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Fluctuations in exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar, primarily Canadian and Australian dollars, can materially impact margins and comparisons of our results of operations between periods. Results of Operations The results of acquired businesses have been included in the following results of operations beginning on their respective acquisition dates. A discussion of results of operations changes between the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 is included in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, which was filed with the SEC on February 28, 2020. The following table sets forth selected statements of operations data, such data as a percentage of revenues for the years indicated as well as the dollar and percentage change from the prior year (dollars in thousands): Consolidated Results * The percentage change is not meaningful. 43 Revenues. Revenues decreased primarily due to a reduction in services related to larger pipeline transmission projects and the challenged energy market conditions, exacerbated by the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, which resulted in a $1.56 billion decrease in revenues from our Underground Utility and Infrastructure Solutions segment. This decrease was partially offset by a $651.5 million increase in revenues from our Electric Power Infrastructure Solutions segment due to strong demand for our electric power services, including an increase in emergency restoration services revenues. See Segment Results below for additional information and discussion related to segment revenues. Gross profit. The increase in gross profit was primarily due to increased earnings from electric power infrastructure solutions, partially offset by lower earnings from underground utility and infrastructure solutions primarily due to the decrease in revenues. See Segment Results below for additional information and discussion related to segment results. Equity in earnings of integral unconsolidated affiliates . The amount for the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily relates to the commencement of transition services under the agreement awarded to LUMA in June 2020 for the operation and maintenance of the electric transmission and distribution system in Puerto Rico. Selling, general and administrative expenses. Contributing to the increase was a $30.9 million increase in expenses associated with acquired businesses and a $39.3 million increase in compensation expenses. The increase in compensation expense was largely associated with increased non-cash stock-based compensation expense, including a $14.0 million correction of prior period amounts related to the valuation of and accounting for certain performance-based equity awards that were awarded during the years 2017 to 2019. Included in the correction was $7.2 million of non-cash stock-based compensation related to 2019. Also contributing to the increase in non-cash stock-based compensation in 2020 was higher achievement under performance-based awards, as well as an increase in the amount of equity-based awards due to acquisitions and business growth. Partially offsetting these increases were decreases in certain expenses related to our cost containment measures in the current operating environment, including a $22.1 million decrease in travel and related expenses. Also partially offsetting the increases were a $17.2 million decrease in costs associated with legal and other contracted services and a $7.6 million decrease in provision for credit losses. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues increased to 8.7% for the year ended December 31, 2020 from 7.9% for the year ended December 31, 2019, primarily due to the decrease in revenues described above. Amortization of intangible assets. The increase was primarily due to increased amortization of intangible assets associated with recently acquired businesses, partially offset by reduced amortization expense from previously acquired intangible assets, as certain of those assets became fully amortized. Asset impairment charges. Management reviews long-lived assets for potential impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate the carrying amount may not be realizable, which may arise in connection with regular evaluations as to whether business operations have the ability to contribute long-term strategic value. As part of such evaluations during the fourth quarter of 2020, we recognized $8.3 million of asset impairment charges, $7.0 million of which related to our Latin American operations and $1.3 million of which related to the planned sale of certain equipment. During the fourth quarter of 2019, we recognized $13.9 million of asset impairments primarily related to the winding down and exit of certain oil-influenced operations and assets, the replacement of an internally-developed software application and the planned sale of certain foreign operations and assets. Change in fair value of contingent consideration liabilities. The overall changes were primarily due to changes in performance in post-acquisition periods by certain acquired businesses and the effect of present value accretion on fair value calculations. Further changes in fair value are expected to be recorded periodically until contingent consideration liabilities are settled. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for more information. Interest expense. Interest expense decreased primarily due to a lower weighted average interest rate associated with our senior credit facility. Other income (expense), net . The net other income for the year ended December 31, 2020 was primarily related to the receipt of an $8.9 million favorable legal settlement, the favorable impact of $5.2 million related to foreign currency transactions and a $2.3 million dividend related to an investment in a water and gas pipeline infrastructure contractor located in Australia. Other income was partially offset by a $9.3 million impairment associated with our investment in the same water and gas pipeline infrastructure contractor and $8.7 million of impairments associated with two non-integral equity investments that have been negatively impacted by the recent decline in demand for refined petroleum products. The net other income for the year ended December 31, 2019 was primarily due to the recognition of earnings previously deferred in 2018 and 2017 on a large electric transmission project in Canada that was substantially completed and placed into commercial operation during the three months ended March 31, 2019. As a result of the project completion, we recognized $60.3 million of earnings that were deferred in prior periods. Additionally, during the three months ended December 31, 2019, we recognized a gain of $13.0 million related to the sale of our equity interest in the limited partnership that owned the project. 44 Provision for income taxes. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 were 20.9% and 28.9%. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2020 was favorably impacted by a $45.1 million reduction in our deferred tax asset valuation allowance related to foreign tax credits and $8.2 million of tax benefits related to a decrease in reserves for uncertain tax positions, which resulted from the expiration of certain federal and state statutes of limitations periods. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 include the impact of taxable losses of $60.8 million and $86.2 million associated with our Latin American operations, for which no income tax benefit was recognized. The effective tax rate for 2019 was also impacted by $7.8 million of favorable tax benefits associated with the sale of our interest in the limited partnership referenced above and $10.7 million of tax benefits related to decreases in reserves for uncertain tax positions, which primarily resulted from the expiration of certain federal and state statutes of limitations periods and the settlement of tax audits. Absent these items, the effective tax rates for December 31, 2020 and 2019 would have been 27.3% and 27.9%. We expect our effective tax rate to be approximately 26.5% to 27.0% for 2021. Other comprehensive income (loss), net of taxes. Other comprehensive income (loss) results from translation of the balance sheets of our foreign operating units, which are primarily located in Canada and Australia and have functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and therefore are affected by the strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar against such currencies. The gain in the year ended December 31, 2020 was impacted primarily by the weakening of the U.S. dollar against both the Australian and Canadian dollars as of December 31, 2020 when compared to December 31, 2019. The gain in the year ended December 31, 2019 was impacted primarily by the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the Canadian dollar as of December 31, 2019 when compared to December 31, 2018. Segment Results Reportable segment information, including revenues and operating income by type of work, is gathered from each operating unit for the purpose of evaluating segment performance. Classification of our operating unit revenues by type of work for segment reporting purposes can at times require judgment on the part of management. Our operating units may perform joint projects for customers in multiple industries, deliver multiple types of services under a single customer contract or provide service offerings to various industries. For example, we perform joint trenching projects to install distribution lines for electric power and natural gas customers. Our integrated operations and common administrative support for operating units require that certain allocations be made to determine segment profitability, including allocations of shared and indirect costs (e.g., facility costs), indirect operating expenses (e.g., depreciation), and general and administrative costs. Certain corporate costs are not allocated, including payroll and benefits, employee travel expenses, facility costs, professional fees, acquisition costs, non-cash stock-based compensation, amortization related to intangible assets, asset impairment related to goodwill and intangible assets and change in fair value of contingent consideration liabilities. 45 The following table sets forth segment revenues, segment operating income (loss) and operating margins for the periods indicated, as well as the dollar and percentage change from the prior period. Operating margins are calculated by dividing operating income by revenues. Management utilizes operating margins as a measure of profitability, which can be helpful for monitoring how effectively we are performing under our contracts. Management also believes operating margins are a useful metric for investors to utilize in evaluating our performance. The following table shows dollars in thousands. * The percentage change is not meaningful. Electric Power Infrastructure Solutions Segment Results Overall, revenues increased as a result of continued favorable dynamics across our core utility market and increased demand for our electric power services, including a $220 million increase in emergency restoration services revenues and a $125 million increase in revenues from our North American communication operations. We also recognized approximately $175 million of incremental revenues attributable to acquired businesses and increased revenues on larger transmission projects in Canada. These increases were partially offset by decreased revenues associated fire hardening programs in the western United States as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. We have substantially completed the exit of our Latin American operations as of December 31, 2020. These operations have been adversely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic due to shelter-in-place restrictions and other work disruptions that resulted in our acceleration of various contract terminations and other activities during 2020 in order to expedite cessation of operations in the region. As a result of these factors, during the year ended December 31, 2020, our Latin American operations generated an operating loss of $74.0 million, including  $7.0 million of asset impairment charges and $2.7 million of regulatory required severance payments. During the year ended December 31, 2019, our Latin American operations generated an operating loss of $85.7 million, which included a $79.2 million charge associated with the termination of a telecommunications project in Peru, composed of a $48.8 million reversal of revenues and a $30.4 million increase in cost of services. The charge included a reduction of previously recognized earnings on the project, a reserve against a portion of the project costs incurred through the project termination date, a reserve against a portion of alleged liquidated damages and recognition of estimated costs to complete the project turnover and close out the project. See Legal Proceedings in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplemental Data of this Annual Report for additional information regarding this project. Operating income and operating income as a percentage of revenues were positively impacted during the year ended December 31, 2020 by increased revenues from larger transmission projects in Canada and emergency restoration services revenues, both of which contributed to improved equipment utilization and fixed cost absorption. The year ended December 31, 2019 was negatively impacted by severe weather and other delays on certain larger transmission projects in Canada that resulted in elevated levels of unabsorbed costs. Partially offsetting these increases between periods was a reduction in fire 46 hardening services in the western United States during the year ended December 31, 2020. The equity in earnings of integral unconsolidated affiliates primarily relates to the commencement of transition services under the operation and maintenance agreement awarded to LUMA in June 2020. Underground Utility and Infrastructure Solutions Segment Results During the year ended December 31, 2020, reduced revenues associated with larger pipeline projects of approximately $830 million significantly contributed to the overall decrease in segment revenues. Revenues associated with larger pipeline projects declined as a result of the industry entering the late-stage of the current construction cycle as well as the next cycle of projects being delayed due to various factors, including among other things, permitting delays and worksite access limitations related to environmental regulations. Revenues also declined due to lower demand for our services in end-markets where the price of oil is influential. Lastly, the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in reduced capital spending and deferred regularly scheduled maintenance by our midstream and industrial customers, and shelter-in-place and worksite access restrictions in major metropolitan areas caused short-term disruptions for our gas distribution customers. These decreases were partially offset by approximately $230 million in incremental revenues from acquired businesses during 2020. The decreases in operating income and operating income as a percentage of revenues were primarily due to the reduction of revenues, including revenues related to larger pipeline projects, which generally yield higher margins. Performance on contracts, including on larger pipeline projects, can vary based on several factors. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2020, adverse weather conditions across our Canadian larger pipeline projects negatively impacted operating income. However, the negative impact on these projects was offset by favorable factors on certain larger pipeline projects in the United States, including a contract termination that resulted in the recognition of previously deferred suspension and milestone payments. Also contributing to the decrease in segment operating income were adverse impacts related to the COVID-19 pandemic and the overall challenged energy market, including lower revenues associated with industrial services, which negatively impacted margins and the ability to cover fixed and overhead costs, as discussed further above in COVID-19 – Response and Impact. Partially offsetting these adverse impacts were proactive cost management activities across the impacted operations. Operating income and operating income as a percentage of segment revenues in 2020 were also negatively impacted by $4.1 million of severance and restructuring charges related to the exit of certain ancillary pipeline operations and $1.3 million of asset impairment charges related to the planned sale of certain equipment. Operating income and operating income as a percentage of segment revenues for the year ended December 31, 2019 were negatively impacted by $28.3 million of project losses associated with engineering and production delays on a processing facility project, which was completed as of December 31, 2020, and $10.2 million of asset impairment charges from the winding down and exit of certain oil-influenced operations and assets. Corporate and Non-allocated Costs The increase in corporate and non-allocated costs was primarily due to a $40.2 million increase in non-cash stock-based compensation, including a $14.0 million correction of prior period amounts related to the valuation of and accounting for certain performance-based equity awards that were awarded during the years 2017 to 2019. Included in the correction was $7.2 million of non-cash stock-based compensation related to 2019. Also contributing to higher non-cash stock-based compensation in 2020 was higher achievement under performance-based equity awards, as well as an increase in the amount of equity-based awards due to acquisitions and business growth. Additionally, the increase in corporate and non-allocated costs included a $14.6 million increase in intangible asset amortization. Partially offsetting these increases were decreases in certain expenses related to our cost containment measures in the current operating environment, including a $6.3 million decrease in travel and related expenses and a $6.1 million decrease in costs associated with legal and other contracted services. Also partially offsetting the increases were a $5.0 million decrease in acquisition and integration costs and. with respect to contingent consideration liabilities, a $0.7 million increase in the fair value recognized during the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to a $13.4 million increase in the fair value recognized during the year ended December 31, 2019. Non-GAAP Reconciliations EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, measures not recognized under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP), when used in connection with net income attributable to common stock, are intended to provide useful information to investors and analysts as they evaluate our performance. EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, equity in (earnings) losses of non-integral unconsolidated affiliates and interest, taxes depreciation and amortization of integral unconsolidated affiliates, and adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA adjusted for certain other items as described below. These measures should not be considered as an alternative to net income attributable to common stock or other measures of performance that are derived in accordance with GAAP. Management believes that the exclusion of 47 these items from net income attributable to common stock enables it to more effectively evaluate our operations period over period and to identify operating trends that might not be apparent when including the excluded items. As to certain of the items below, (i) equity in (earnings) losses of non-integral unconsolidated affiliates varies from period to period depending on the activity and financial performance of non-integral unconsolidated affiliates, including deferral and subsequent recognition upon completion of construction of earnings on contracts performed for entities in which Quanta has an equity interest and gain or loss on sales of investments accounted for using the equity method of accounting; (ii) non-cash stock-based compensation expense varies from period to period due to acquisition activity, changes in the estimated fair value of performance-based awards, forfeiture rates, accelerated vesting and amounts granted; (iii) acquisition and integration costs vary from period to period depending on the level of our acquisition activity; (iv) asset impairment charges can vary from period to period depending on economic and other factors; (v) restructuring and severance charges vary from period to period depending on restructuring activities; (vi) bargain purchase gains can vary from period to period depending on our acquisition activity and the valuation of acquired businesses; (vii) change in fair value of contingent consideration liabilities varies from period to period depending on the performance in post-acquisition periods of certain acquired businesses; and (viii) tax settlements and adjustments to related indemnification assets can vary from period to period depending on the status and resolution of pending matters. Because EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, as defined, exclude some, but not all, items that affect net income attributable to common stock, such measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. The most comparable GAAP financial measure, net income attributable to common stock, and information reconciling the GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, are included below. The following table shows dollars in thousands. (a) The amount for the year ended December 31, 2020 includes a $14.0 million correction of prior period amounts related to the valuation of and accounting for certain performance-based equity awards that were awarded during the years 2017 to 2019. Included in the correction was $7.2 million of non-cash stock-based compensation related to 2019. (b) The amount for the year ended December 31, 2020 reflects asset impairment charges related to the exit of the Latin American operations and the planned sale of certain equipment. The amount for the year ended December 31, 2019 reflects asset impairment charges related to the winding down and exit of certain oil-influenced operations and assets, the replacement of an internally developed software application and the planned sale of certain foreign operations and assets. (c) The amount for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2020 relates to severance and restructuring charges related to the exit of certain ancillary pipeline operations and our Latin American operations. (d) The amount for the year ended December 31, 2019 reflects a bargain purchase gain related to the acquisition of an electrical infrastructure solutions business. (e) The amount for the year ended December 31, 2019 reflects an expense associated with the reduction of an indemnification asset related to the favorable settlement of certain non-U.S. income tax obligations associated with an acquired business. 48 Remaining Performance Obligations and Backlog A performance obligation is a promise in a contract with a customer to transfer a distinct good or service. Our remaining performance obligations represent management’s estimate of consolidated revenues that are expected to be realized from the remaining portion of firm orders under fixed price contracts not yet completed or for which work has not yet begun, which includes estimated revenues attributable to consolidated joint ventures and variable interest entities (VIEs), revenues from funded and unfunded portions of government contracts to the extent they are reasonably expected to be realized, and revenues from change orders and claims to the extent management believes they will be earned and are probable of collection. We have also historically disclosed our backlog, a measure commonly used in our industry but not recognized under GAAP. We believe this measure enables management to more effectively forecast our future capital needs and results and better identify future operating trends that may not otherwise be apparent. We believe this measure is also useful for investors in forecasting our future results and comparing us to our competitors. Our remaining performance obligations are a component of backlog, which also includes estimated orders under MSAs, including estimated renewals, and non-fixed price contracts expected to be completed within one year. Our methodology for determining backlog may not be comparable to the methodologies used by other companies. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, MSAs accounted for 63% and 53% of our estimated 12-month backlog and 70% and 61% of total backlog. The increase in MSA backlog resulted from our entry into several new multiyear MSAs with electric and gas utility customers during the three months ended September 30, 2020. Generally, our customers are not contractually committed to specific volumes of services under our MSAs, and most of our contracts can be terminated on short notice even if we are not in default. We determine the estimated backlog for these MSAs using recurring historical trends, factoring in seasonal demand and projected customer needs based upon ongoing communications. In addition, many of our MSAs are subject to renewal, and these potential renewals are considered in determining estimated backlog. As a result, estimates for remaining performance obligations and backlog are subject to change based on, among other things, project accelerations; project cancellations or delays, including but not limited to those caused by commercial issues, regulatory requirements, natural disasters, emergencies (including the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic) and adverse weather conditions; and final acceptance of change orders by customers. These factors can cause revenues to be realized in periods and at levels that are different than originally projected. The following table reconciles total remaining performance obligations to our backlog (a non-GAAP measure) by reportable segment, along with estimates of amounts expected to be realized within 12 months (in thousands): The decrease in remaining performance obligations from December 31, 2019 to December 31, 2020 was primarily due to a reduction in larger pipeline projects. Total backlog increased due to the increase in MSA backlog related to expanding base business activities. 49 Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Requirements Management monitors financial markets and national and global economic conditions for factors that may affect our liquidity and capital resources. We consider our investment policies related to cash and cash equivalents to be conservative in that we maintain a diverse portfolio of what we believe to be high-quality cash and cash equivalent investments with short-term maturities. While the extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our future operational and financial performance will depend on future developments and remains uncertain, based on our current business forecast for 2021, including revenue and earnings prospects and other cost management actions taken in response to market conditions, we anticipate that our cash and cash equivalents on hand, future cash flows from operations and existing borrowing capacity under our senior credit facility, which we increased and extended the maturity of during the three months ended September 30, 2020, as well as other available financing alternatives, will provide sufficient funds to enable us to meet our interest payment obligations, fund ongoing operating needs, facilitate our ability to repurchase stock and pay any future dividends we declare, fund acquisitions or strategic investments that facilitate the long-term growth and sustainability of our business and fund essential capital expenditures and lease payments during 2021. Our industry is capital intensive, and we expect substantial capital expenditures and commitments under equipment lease and rental arrangements to be needed into the foreseeable future in order to meet anticipated demand for our services. We expect capital expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2021 to be approximately $325 million. Additionally, refer to Contractual Obligations below for a summary of our future contractual obligations and a description of other contingencies as of December 31, 2020 and Off-Balance Sheet Transactions below for a description of certain contingent obligations that are not recorded on our consolidated balance sheets. Although any of these contingent obligations could require the use of cash in future periods, certain contingent obligations are excluded from the Contractual Obligations table because we are unable to accurately predict the timing and amount of any such obligations as of December 31, 2020 as described below. Our available commitments under our senior credit facility and cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2020 were as follows (in thousands): Our financial strategy and consistent performance has earned us an investment grade credit rating from S&P Global Ratings and Moody’s Investors Service. However, our ability to access the capital markets in the future depends on a number of factors, including our financial performance and financial position, our credit rating, industry conditions, general economic conditions, our backlog, capital expenditure commitments, market conditions and market perceptions of us and our industry. We may seek to access the capital markets from time to time to raise additional capital, increase liquidity as necessary, refinance or extend the term of our existing indebtedness or otherwise fund our capital needs. For example, on September 22, 2020, we issued $1.00 billion aggregate principal amount of our senior notes, receiving proceeds of $986.7 million, net of the original issue discount, underwriting discounts and debt issuance costs. We utilized those proceeds, together with cash on hand, to voluntarily prepay $1.21 billion of outstanding term loans under our senior credit facility, which had a maturity date in October 2022. Additionally, we entered into an amendment to our senior credit facility that, among other things, increased the aggregate revolving commitments from $2.14 billion to $2.51 billion and extended the maturity date from October 31, 2022 to September 22, 2025. 50 Sources and Uses of Cash In summary, our cash flows for each period were as follows (in thousands): Operating Activities Cash flow from operating activities is primarily influenced by demand for our services and operating margins but is also influenced by working capital needs associated with the various types of services that we provide. Our working capital needs may increase when we commence large volumes of work under circumstances where project costs, primarily labor, equipment and subcontractors, are required to be paid before the associated receivables are billed and collected. Accordingly, changes within working capital in accounts receivable, contract assets and contract liabilities are normally related and are typically affected on a collective basis by changes in revenue due to the timing and volume of work performed and variability in the timing of customer billings and payments. Additionally, working capital needs are generally higher during the summer and fall due to increased demand for our services when favorable weather conditions exist in many of our operating regions. Conversely, working capital assets are typically converted to cash during the winter. These seasonal trends can be offset by changes in project timing due to delays or accelerations and other economic factors that may affect customer spending, including the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Net cash provided by operating activities during 2020 was favorably impacted by lower working capital requirements resulting from a decrease in revenues, as well as increased earnings as compared to 2019. Also favorably impacting cash provided by operating activities during 2020 was the deferral of $108.9 million of the employer portion of payroll tax payments under the CARES Act, 50% of which are due by December 31, 2021 and the remainder of which are due by December 31, 2022. The CARES Act permitted deferral of the employer portion of payroll taxes through December 31, 2020. Net cash provided by operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2020 also included the receipt of $82.0 million of insurance proceeds associated with the settlement of two pipeline project claims in the fourth quarter of 2019. Net cash provided by operating activities during 2019 was lower due to the payment of $112 million as a result of the exercise of on-demand advance payment and performance bonds in connection with the termination of the large telecommunications project in Peru, which is described in further detail in Legal Proceedings in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data . Net cash used in operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2019 was also impacted by higher working capital requirements, including mobilization and tooling costs, to support business growth and extended billing and collection cycles for certain utility customers. Days sales outstanding (DSO) represents the average number of days it takes revenues to be converted into cash, which management believes is an important metric for assessing liquidity. A decrease in DSO has a favorable impact on cash flow from operating activities, while an increase in DSO has a negative impact on cash flow from operating activities. DSO is calculated by using the sum of current accounts receivable, net of allowance (which includes retainage and unbilled balances), plus contract assets less contract liabilities, divided by average revenues per day during the quarter. DSO for the quarter ended December 31, 2020 was 83 days, which compares to our historical average over the last five years of 80 days and our DSO for the quarter ended December 31, 2019. which was 81 days. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities during 2020 included $292.6 million used for acquisitions, $260.1 million of capital expenditures and $14.9 million of cash paid for investments in unconsolidated affiliates and other entities, partially offset by $35.4 million of proceeds from the sale of property and equipment, $18.8 million of proceeds from the disposition of businesses and $14.0 million of cash received from investments in unconsolidated affiliates and other entities. Net cash used in investing activities during 2019 included $388.0 million used for acquisitions, $261.8 million of capital expenditures and $47.1 million of cash paid for investments in unconsolidated affiliates and other entities, which were partially offset by $46.6 million of cash received from investments in unconsolidated affiliates and other entities related to the sale of our equity interest in the limited partnership that built, owned and operated the large electric transmission project in Canada and $31.1 million of proceeds from the sale of property and equipment. 51 Our industry is capital intensive, and we expect substantial capital expenditures and commitments under equipment lease and rental arrangements to be needed into the foreseeable future. We also have various other capital commitments that are detailed in Contractual Obligations below. In addition, we expect to continue to pursue strategic acquisitions and investments, although we cannot predict the timing or amount of the cash needed for these initiatives. Financing Activities On September 22, 2020, we received proceeds from the issuance of the senior notes of $990.1 million, which is net of the original issue discount and underwriting discounts, as described further in Debt Instruments – 2.900% Senior Notes due October 2030 . These proceeds, together with cash on hand, were used to voluntarily prepay the then-outstanding term loans under the credit agreement, which is reflected in the $1.20 billion of net repayments under our senior credit facility. Net cash used in financing activities in 2020 also included $247.2 million of cash payments for common stock repurchases, $61.5 million of payments to settle certain contingent consideration liabilities, $28.9 million of cash dividends and dividend equivalents, $25.4 million of cash payments to satisfy tax withholding obligations associated with stock-based compensation, and $11.1 million of debt issuance and amendment costs related to the senior notes issuance and the September 2020 amendment to our credit agreement. Net cash provided by financing activities in 2019 included $272.5 million of net borrowings under our senior credit facility, partially offset by $28.3 million of net short-term repayments, $23.2 million of cash payments for dividends and cash dividend equivalents, $20.1 million of cash payments for common stock repurchases and $16.1 million of payments to satisfy tax withholding obligations associated with stock-based compensation. Stock Repurchases We repurchased the following shares of common stock in the open market under our stock repurchase programs (in thousands): Our policy is to record a stock repurchase as of the trade date; however, the payment of cash related to a repurchase is made on the settlement date of the trade. During the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, cash payments related to stock repurchases were $247.2 million, $20.1 million and $443.2 million. As of December 31, 2020, $36.8 million remained authorized under our stock repurchase program approved during the third quarter of 2018, which permits us to repurchase outstanding common stock from time to time through June 30, 2021. In August 2020, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase, from time to time through June 30, 2023, up to an additional $500.0 million in shares of our outstanding common stock under a new stock repurchase program, for an aggregate of $536.8 million remaining under the stock repurchase programs as of December 31, 2020. We are not obligated to acquire any specific amount of common stock and the repurchase programs may be modified or terminated by our Board of Directors at any time at its sole discretion and without notice. For additional detail regarding the terms of stock repurchase programs, refer to Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data . 52 Dividends We declared and paid the following cash dividends and cash dividend equivalents during 2020, 2019 and 2018 (in thousands, except per share amounts): A significant majority of dividends declared were paid on the corresponding payment dates. Holders of restricted stock units (RSUs) awarded under the Quanta Services, Inc. 2011 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan (the 2011 Plan) generally received cash dividend equivalent payments equal to the cash dividend payable on account of the underlying Quanta common stock. Holders of RSUs awarded under the Quanta Services, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan (the 2019 Plan) and holders of unearned and unvested performance stock units (PSUs) awarded under the 2011 Plan and the 2019 Plan receive cash dividend equivalent payments only to the extent such RSUs and PSUs become earned and/or vest. Additionally, cash dividend equivalent payments related to certain stock-based awards that have been deferred pursuant to the terms of a deferred compensation plan maintained by us are recorded as liabilities in such plans until the deferred awards are settled. The declaration, payment and amount of future cash dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows from operations; current and anticipated capital requirements and expansion plans; the current and potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and other market, industry, economic and political conditions; income tax laws then in effect; and the requirements of Delaware law. In addition, as discussed below , our credit agreement restricts the payment of cash dividends unless certain conditions are met. Debt Instruments 2.900% Senior Notes due October 2030 On September 22, 2020, we issued $1.00 billion aggregate principal amount of the senior notes and received proceeds of $986.7 million from the offering, net of the original issue discount, underwriting discounts and debt issuance costs. We used the net proceeds, together with cash on hand, to voluntarily prepay the $1.21 billion of term loans then-outstanding under the credit agreement. Interest on the senior notes, in the amount of $14.5 million, is payable semi-annually in arrears on April 1 and October 1 of each year, commencing April 1, 2021. The maturity date for the senior notes is October 1, 2030. We may redeem all or a portion of the senior notes at any time prior to July 1, 2030 at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount plus a make-whole premium and accrued and unpaid interest, and at any time on or after July 1, 2030 at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, in each case as further specified by terms of the senior notes and the indenture and supplemental indenture governing the senior notes (together, the indenture). Additionally, upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event (as defined in the indenture), unless we have exercised our right to redeem the senior notes in full by giving irrevocable notice to the trustee, each noteholder will have the right to require us to purchase all or a portion of such holder’s senior notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof plus any accrued and unpaid interest. The indenture also contains customary events of default and covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to incur liens securing indebtedness, to engage in certain sale and leaseback transactions with respect to certain properties and to sell all or substantially all of our assets or merge or consolidate with or into other companies. 53 Senior Credit Facility On September 22, 2020, we entered into an amendment to the credit agreement for our senior credit facility that, among other things, increased the aggregate revolving commitments from $2.14 billion to $2.51 billion and extended the maturity date for the revolving commitments from October 31, 2022 to September 22, 2025. Pursuant to the amendment, the pledge of capital stock of certain of our subsidiaries and the liens on the collateral that secured the obligations under the credit agreement were released and all of our subsidiaries that were guarantors of the obligations under the credit agreement were released from their guarantees of such obligations. In addition, the amendment removed the collateral reinstatement provision that would have applied in the event our corporate credit rating were to fall below an investment grade rating. As referenced above, we also used the net proceeds from the offering of our senior notes, together with cash on hand, to voluntarily prepay all the term loans then-outstanding under the credit agreement in the aggregate principal amount of $1.21 billion. Additionally, subject to the conditions specified in the credit agreement, we have the option to increase the capacity of the credit facility, in the form of an increase in the revolving commitments, term loans or a combination thereof, from time to time, upon receipt of additional commitments from new or existing lenders by up to an additional (i) $400.0 million plus (ii) additional amounts so long as the Incremental Leverage Ratio Requirement (as defined in the credit agreement) is satisfied at the time of such increase. The Incremental Leverage Ratio Requirement requires, among other things, after giving pro forma effect to such increase and the use of proceeds therefrom, compliance with the credit agreement’s financial covenants as of the most recent fiscal quarter end for which financial statements were required to be delivered. Borrowings under the credit agreement are to be used to refinance existing indebtedness and for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, stock repurchases and other general corporate purposes. The maturity date for the senior credit facility is September 22, 2025. During the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, our weighted average interest rates associated with our senior credit facility were 2.1% and 3.8%. As of December 31, 2020, we had $148.5 million of outstanding revolving loans under the credit agreement and $348.3 million of letters of credit issued under our senior credit facility. As of December 31, 2020, we also had $18.2 million of letters of credit issued by a financial institution that ceased to be a lender under the senior credit facility subsequent to the September 2020 amendment to the credit agreement, which are collateralized by a $19.1 million letter of credit issued by a lender under our senior credit facility. As of December 31, 2020, subject to the applicable sublimits, the remaining $2.01 billion of available commitments under the senior credit facility was available for additional revolving loans or letters of credit in U.S. dollars and certain alternative currencies. As of December 31, 2020, we were in compliance with all of the financial covenants under the credit agreement, which are further described in Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data . The credit agreement provides for customary events of default and generally contains cross-default provisions with other debt instruments exceeding $150.0 million in borrowings or availability. The credit agreement also limits certain acquisitions, mergers and consolidations, indebtedness, asset sales and prepayments of indebtedness and, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits liens on our assets. The credit agreement allows cash payments for dividends and stock repurchases subject to compliance with the following requirements (including after giving effect to the dividend or stock repurchase): (i) no default or event of default under the credit agreement; (ii) continued compliance with the financial covenants in the credit agreement; and (iii) at least $100.0 million of availability under the senior credit facility and/or cash and cash equivalents on hand. To address the transition in financial markets away from the London Interest Bank Offered Rate (LIBOR) by the end of 2021, our senior credit facility agreement includes provisions related to the replacement of LIBOR with a LIBOR Successor Rate (as defined in the credit agreement for such facility), which may be a rate based on the secured overnight financing rate published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. If no LIBOR Successor Rate has been determined at the time certain circumstances are present, the lenders’ obligation to make or maintain loans based on a Eurocurrency rate could be suspended, and loans in U.S. dollars would default to the Base Rate (as described in Senior Credit Facility within Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ) rather than a rate using the Eurocurrency Rate. Changing to an alternative interest rate or to the Base Rate may lead to additional volatility in interest rates and could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. 54 Contractual Obligations and Contingencies The following table summarizes our future contractual obligations as of December 31, 2020, excluding certain amounts discussed below (in thousands): _______________________________________ (1) Amount represents the principal amount of our long-term debt. The cash interest obligations related to the fixed-rate portion of our long-term debt are included in Long-term debt - cash interest; however, our $148.5 million of outstanding revolving loans under our senior credit facility bear interest at variable market rates. Assuming the principal amount outstanding and interest rate in effect at December 31, 2020 remained the same, the annual cash interest expense would be approximately $3.1 million, payable until September 22, 2025, the maturity date of the facility. (2) Amount represents cash interest expense associated with our fixed-rate, long-term debt, which primarily includes our senior notes and financing transactions arising from the exercise of our equipment rental purchase options. (3) Amount represents short-term borrowings recorded on our December 31, 2020 consolidated balance sheet. (4) Amounts represent undiscounted operating lease obligations at December 31, 2020 for our real estate and equipment leases. The operating lease obligations recorded on our December 31, 2020 consolidated balance sheet represent the present value of these amounts. (5) Amounts represent undiscounted operating lease obligations that had not commenced as of December 31, 2020. The operating lease obligations will be recorded on our consolidated balance sheet beginning on the commencement date of each lease. (6) Amounts represent undiscounted finance lease obligations at December 31, 2020. The finance lease obligations recorded on our December 31, 2020 consolidated balance sheet represent the present value of these amounts. (7) Amounts represent short-term lease obligations that are not recorded on our December 31, 2020 consolidated balance sheet due to our accounting policy election. Month-to-month rental expense associated primarily with certain equipment rentals is excluded from these amounts because we are unable to accurately predict future rental amounts. (8) Amounts represent deferral of $108.9 million of the employer portion of payroll tax payments, 50% of which are due by December 31, 2021 and the remainder of which are due by December 31, 2022. The CARES Act permitted deferral of the employer portion of payroll taxes through December 31, 2020. (9) Amount represents capital committed for the expansion of our vehicle fleet. Although we have committed to the purchase of these vehicles at the time of their delivery, we expect that these orders will be assigned to third-party leasing companies and made available to us under certain of our master equipment lease agreements. 55 We have various contingencies and commitments that may require the use of cash in future periods, including those set forth below. The Contractual Obligations table excludes the contingencies described below, as we are unable to accurately predict the timing and amount of any of the following contingent obligations. Uncollectible accounts receivable - We grant credit under normal payment terms, generally without collateral, to our customers. While we generally have certain statutory lien rights with respect to services provided, we are subject to potential credit risk related to business, economic and financial market conditions that affect these customers and locations, which has been heightened as a result of the unfavorable and uncertain economic and financial market conditions resulting from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and the significant decline in commodity prices and volatility in commodity production volumes. Some of our customers have experienced significant financial difficulties (including bankruptcy), and customers may experience financial difficulties in the future. These difficulties expose us to increased risk related to collectability of billed and unbilled receivables and contract assets for services we have performed. See Concentration of Credit Risk in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further discussion related to these potential contingencies. Lawsuits and other legal proceedings - We are from time to time party to various lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business, which typically seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, breach of contract, negligence or gross negligence and/or property damage, environmental liabilities, wage and hour and other employment-related damages, punitive damages, consequential damages, civil penalties or other losses, or injunctive or declaratory relief. With respect to all such lawsuits, claims and proceedings, we record a reserve when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. In addition, we disclose matters for which management believes a material loss is at least reasonably possible. For additional information regarding litigation, claims and other legal proceedings see Legal Proceedings in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. In all instances, management has assessed the matter based on current information and made a judgment concerning its potential outcome, giving due consideration to the nature of the claim, the amount and nature of damages sought and the probability of success. Management’s judgment may prove materially inaccurate, and such judgment is made subject to the known uncertainties of litigation. Collective bargaining agreements and multiemployer pension plan liabilities - Certain of our operating units are parties to collective bargaining agreements with unions that represent certain of their employees, and from time to time, we are a party to grievance and arbitration actions based on claims arising out of the collective bargaining agreements, which specify that we pay certain wages, provide certain benefits to union employees and contribute certain amounts to multiemployer pension plans and employee benefit trusts. The location and number of union employees that we employ at any given time and the plans in which they may participate vary depending on our need for union resources in connection with our ongoing projects, and therefore we are unable to accurately predict our union employee payroll and the resulting contribution obligations for future periods. Furthermore, we may be required to make additional contributions to our multiemployer pension plans if they become underfunded or if we withdraw or are deemed to have withdrawn from a plan or a plan is terminated or experiences a mass withdrawal. For additional information on these obligations and potential contingencies, see Collective Bargaining Agreements and Multiemployer Pension Plans in Notes 13 and 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Bonds and parent guarantees - Many customers, particularly in connection with new construction, require us to post performance and payment bonds, which provide a guarantee that we will perform under the terms of a contract and pay subcontractors and vendors. In certain circumstances, the customer may demand that our surety make payments or provide services under the bond, and we must reimburse the surety for any expenses or outlays it incurs. Additionally, from time to time, we guarantee certain obligations and liabilities of our subsidiaries that may arise in connection with, among other things, contracts with customers, equipment lease obligations, joint venture arrangements and contractor licenses, and may cover all of the subsidiary’s unperformed, undischarged and unreleased obligations and liabilities under or in connection with the relevant agreement. See Bonds and Parent Guarantees in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further discussion related to these obligations and potential contingencies; Insurance liabilities - Due to the nature of our operations, at any given time we have a significant amount of accrued insurance claims. Additionally, we renew our insurance policies on an annual basis, and therefore deductibles and levels of insurance coverage may change in future periods. In addition, insurers may cancel our coverage or determine to exclude certain items from coverage, or we may elect not to obtain certain types or incremental levels of insurance based on the potential benefits considered relative to the cost of such insurance, or coverage may not be available at reasonable and competitive rates. See Insurance in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further discussion related to these obligations and potential contingencies. Indemnities and assumed liabilities - In connection with our acquisition transactions, we assume certain liabilities and obtain rights to indemnification from the sellers or former owners of acquired businesses for certain risks, liabilities and 56 obligations arising from their prior operations, such as performance, operational, safety, workforce or tax issues. However, we may not have discovered certain liabilities during due diligence and our indemnities may not cover all of our exposure for such pre-acquisition matters or the indemnitors may be unwilling or unable to pay amounts owed to us. Accordingly, we may incur expenses that are not reimbursed, and such amounts could be material. See Indemnities in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further discussion related to these potential contingencies. Contingent consideration liabilities prior to their resolution - We have incurred liabilities related to contingent consideration associated with certain acquisitions, payable in the event certain performance objectives are achieved by the acquired businesses during designated post-acquisition periods. The aggregate amount of these liabilities can change due to additional business acquisitions, settlement of outstanding liabilities, changes in the fair value of amounts owed based on performance in post-acquisition periods and accretion in present value. See Fair Value Measurements - Contingent Consideration Liabilities in Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further discussion related to these potential contingencies. Liabilities related to our deferred compensation plans - We maintain non-qualified deferred compensation plans pursuant to which non-employee directors and certain key employees may defer receipt of some or all of their compensation. These plans are unfunded and unsecured compensation arrangements, and the amount of the obligations can fluctuate based on the market value of participants’ investment elections under the plan. See Deferred Compensation Plans in Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further discussion related to these plans. Undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries - We generally do not provide for taxes related to undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries and we could be subject to additional foreign withholding taxes if we were to repatriate cash that is indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. See Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further discussion related to these potential contingencies; Unrecognized tax benefits - We remain under examination by various U.S. state, Canadian and other foreign tax authorities for multiple periods and believe it is reasonably possible that within the next 12 months unrecognized tax benefits may decrease by up to $11.9 million as a result of settlement of these examinations or the expiration of certain statute of limitations periods. See Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further discussion related to these potential contingencies. Commitment fees under our senior credit facility - Fees associated with letters of credit under our senior credit facility and other letters of credit and commitment fees under our senior credit facility are variable because they depend on the amount of outstanding letters of credit, availability and applicable fees. Assuming that the amount of letters of credit outstanding and the fees as of December 31, 2020 remained the same, the annual cash expense for our letters of credit would be approximately $4.7 million. See Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further discussion related to these obligations and potential contingencies. Off-Balance Sheet Transactions As is common in our industry, we have entered into certain off-balance sheet arrangements in the ordinary course of business that result in risks not directly reflected in our balance sheets. Our significant off-balance sheet transactions include certain obligations relating to our investments and joint venture arrangements; short-term, non-cancelable leases and leases that have not yet commenced; letters of credit obligations; surety guarantees related to bonds; committed expenditures for the purchase of equipment; and certain multiemployer pension plan liabilities. See Contractual Obligations above and Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for a description of these arrangements. Critical Accounting Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities known to exist as of the date the consolidated financial statements are published and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses recognized during the periods presented. We review all significant estimates affecting our consolidated financial statements on a recurring basis and record the effect of any necessary adjustments prior to their publication. Judgments and estimates are based on our beliefs and assumptions derived from information available at the time such judgments and estimates are made. Uncertainties with respect to such estimates and assumptions are inherent in the preparation of financial statements. There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ from those estimates. Management has reviewed its development and selection of critical accounting estimates with the audit committee of our Board 57 of Directors. Our accounting policies are primarily described in Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data and should be read in conjunction with the accounting policies identified below that we believe affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition - The estimation of contract revenues and costs, including changes in estimates; progress on construction projects; variable consideration; and collectability of accounts receivable, long-term accounts receivable, unbilled receivables, retainage and contract assets, including amounts related to unapproved change orders in the process of being negotiated. Property and Equipment - The valuation methods and assumptions used in assessing impairment, useful life determination and the related timing of depreciation and the determination of asset groupings. Goodwill - The valuation methods and assumptions used in assessing impairment, including determination of whether to perform a qualitative assessment on some or all of the reporting units, weighting of various methods of determining the fair value of each reporting unit, number of years of cash flows utilized before applying a terminal value, the weighted average cost of capital, transaction multiples, guideline public company multiples and five-year compounded annual growth rates. Other Intangible Assets - The valuation methods and assumptions used in assessing impairment. Income Taxes - The identification and measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities; the measurement of valuation allowances on deferred tax assets including estimates of future taxable income; estimates associated with tax liabilities in that tax laws and regulations are voluminous and often ambiguous; and benefits from uncertain tax positions (also refer to Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). Insurance - The estimation of liabilities and related recoveries. Litigation Costs and Reserves and Loss Contingencies - The estimation of when a loss is probable or reasonably possible and whether any such loss is reasonably estimable or any range of possible loss is estimable, as well as uncertainties related to the outcome of litigation or other legal proceedings (also refer to Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). Acquisitions - The assumptions used to determine the fair value of consideration transferred and to allocate this consideration to assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with our acquisitions, including the estimated useful lives of other intangible assets subject to amortization (also refer to Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ) .