********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

You should carefully review this section in addition to the other information appearing in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, for important information regarding risks and uncertainties that affect us. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. CYBERSECURITY AND TECHNOLOGY RISKS Cyberattacks and security vulnerabilities could result in serious harm to our reputation, business, and financial condition. The techniques used to attempt to obtain unauthorized or illegal access to systems and information (including customers’ personal data), disable or degrade service, exploit vulnerabilities, or sabotage systems are constantly evolving, and in some circumstances may not be recognized or detected until after they have been launched against a target. Unauthorized parties have attempted, and we expect that they will continue to attempt, to gain access to our systems or facilities through various means, including, but not limited to, hacking into our systems or facilities or those of our customers, partners, or vendors, and attempting to fraudulently induce users of our systems (including employees and customers) into disclosing user names, passwords, payment card information, or other sensitive information used to gain access to such systems or facilities. This information may in turn be used to access our customers’ personal or proprietary information and payment card data that are stored on or accessible through our information technology systems and those of third parties with whom we partner. Numerous and evolving cybersecurity threats, including advanced and persisting cyberattacks, cyberextortion, distributed denial-of-service attacks, ransomware, spear phishing and social engineering schemes, the introduction of computer viruses or other malware, and the physical destruction of all or portions of our information technology and infrastructure and those of third parties with whom we partner could compromise the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of the data in our systems. We have experienced from time to time, and may experience in the future, breaches of our security measures due to human error, malfeasance, insider threats, system errors or vulnerabilities, or other irregularities. We believe that PayPal is a particularly attractive target for cybercriminals due to our name, brand recognition, types of data (including payments-related data) that customers provide to us, and the widespread adoption and use of our products and services. Any cyberattacks or data security breaches affecting the information technology or infrastructure of companies we acquire or of our customers, partners, or vendors (including data center and cloud computing providers) could have similar negative effects. For example, in November 2017, we suspended the operations of TIO Networks (“TIO”) (acquired in July 2017) as part of an investigation of security vulnerabilities of the TIO platform. In December 2017, we announced that we had identified evidence of unauthorized access to TIO’s network and the potential compromise of personally identifiable information for approximately 1.6 million TIO customers. This incident resulted in governmental inquiries and civil claims against us and may lead to additional inquiries and claims in the future. Under payment card network rules and our contracts with our payment processors, if there is a breach of payment card information that we store, or that is stored by our direct payment card processing vendors, we could be liable to the payment card issuing banks for their cost of issuing new cards and related expenses. Cybersecurity breaches and other exploited security vulnerabilities could subject us to significant costs and liabilities, result in improper disclosure of data and violations of applicable privacy and other laws, require us to change our business practices, cause us to incur significant remediation costs, lead to loss of customer confidence in, or decreased use of, our products and services, damage our reputation and brands, divert the attention of management from the operation of our business, result in significant compensation or contractual penalties from us to our customers and their business partners as a result of losses to or claims by them, or expose us to regulatory penalties and fines. While we maintain insurance policies intended to offset the financial impact we may experience from these risks, our coverage may be insufficient to compensate us for all losses caused by security breaches and other damage to or unavailability of our systems. Business interruptions or systems failures may impair the availability of our websites, applications, products or services, or otherwise harm our business. Our systems and operations and those of our service providers and partners have experienced from time to time, and may experience in the future, business interruptions or degradation because of distributed denial-of-service and other cyberattacks, insider threats, hardware and software defects or malfunctions, human error, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, and other natural disasters, public health crises (including pandemics), power losses, disruptions in telecommunications services, fraud, military or political conflicts, terrorist attacks, computer viruses or other malware, or other events. The frequency and intensity of weather events related to climate change are increasing, which could increase the likelihood and severity of such disasters as well as related damage and business interruption. Our corporate headquarters are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, a seismically active region in California. A catastrophic event that results in a disruption or failure of our systems or operations could result in significant losses and require substantial recovery time and significant expenditures to resume or maintain operations, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Additionally, some of our systems, including those of companies we have acquired, are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all possible outcomes or events. As a provider of payments solutions, we are subject to heightened scrutiny by regulators that may require specific business continuity, resiliency and disaster recovery plans, and rigorous testing of such plans, which may be costly and time-consuming to implement, and may divert our resources from other business priorities. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, system failures, cyberattacks, unplanned outages, and other events or conditions from time to time that have and may interrupt the availability, or reduce or adversely affect the speed or functionality, of our products and services. These events have resulted and likely will continue to result in loss of revenue. A prolonged interruption in the availability or reduction in the availability, speed, or functionality of our products and services could materially harm our business. Frequent or persistent interruptions in our services could permanently harm our relationship with our customers and partners and our reputation. Moreover, if any system failure or similar event results in damage to our customers or their business partners, they could seek significant compensation or contractual penalties from us for their losses, and those claims, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly for us to address, and could have other consequences described in this “Risk Factors” section under the caption “ Cyberattacks and security vulnerabilities could result in serious harm to our reputation, business, and financial condition .” We have undertaken and continue to undertake certain system upgrades and re-platforming efforts designed to improve the availability, reliability, resiliency, and speed of our platform. These efforts are costly and time-consuming, involve significant technical risk, and may divert our resources from new features and products, and there can be no guarantee that these efforts will be effective. Frequent or persistent site interruptions could lead to regulatory scrutiny, significant fines and penalties, and mandatory and costly changes to our business practices, and ultimately could cause us to lose existing licenses that we need to operate or prevent or delay us from obtaining additional licenses that may be required for our business. We also rely on facilities, components, applications, and services supplied by third parties, including data center facilities and cloud data storage and processing services. From time to time, we have experienced interruptions in the provision of such facilities and services provided by these third parties. If these third parties experience operational interference or disruptions (including a cybersecurity incident), breach their agreements with us, or fail to perform their obligations and meet our expectations, our operations could be disrupted or otherwise negatively affected, which could result in customer dissatisfaction, regulatory scrutiny, and damage to our reputation and brands, and materially and adversely affect our business. While we maintain insurance policies intended to offset the financial impact we may experience from these risks, our coverage may be insufficient to compensate us for all losses caused by interruptions in our service as a result of systems failures and similar events. In addition, any failure to successfully implement new information systems and technologies, or improvements or upgrades to existing information systems and technologies in a timely manner could have an adverse impact on our business, internal controls (including internal controls over financial reporting), results of operations, and financial condition. If we cannot keep pace with rapid technological developments to provide new and innovative products and services, the use of our products and services and, consequently, our revenues, could decline. Rapid, significant, and disruptive technological changes impact the industries in which we operate, for example, payment technologies (including real-time payments, payment card tokenization, virtual currencies, distributed ledger and blockchain technologies, and proximity payment technology such as Near Field Communication and other contactless payments); internet browser technologies, that enable users to easily store their payment card information for use on any retail or e-commerce website; artificial intelligence and machine learning; developments in technologies supporting our regulatory and compliance obligations; and in-store, digital, and social commerce. We expect new services and technologies to continue to emerge and evolve. We cannot predict the effects of technological changes on our business, which technological developments or innovations will become widely adopted, and how those technologies may be regulated. We rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors, for the development of and access to new or evolving technologies. These third parties may restrict or prevent our access to, or utilization of, those technologies, as well as their platforms or products. We expect that new services and technologies applicable to the industries in which we operate will continue to emerge and may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our products and services. Developing and incorporating new technologies into our products and services may require significant investment, take considerable time, and ultimately may not be successful. Our ability to adopt new products and services and to develop new technologies may be limited or restricted by industry-wide standards, platform providers, payments networks, changes to laws and regulations, changing expectations of consumers or merchants, third-party intellectual property rights, and other factors. Our success will depend on our ability to develop and incorporate new technologies and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. If we are unable to do so in a timely or cost-effective manner, our business could be harmed. LEGAL, REGULATORY AND COMPLIANCE RISKS Our business is subject to extensive government regulation and oversight. Our failure to comply with extensive, complex, overlapping, and frequently changing rules, regulations, and legal interpretations could materially harm our business. Our business is subject to complex and changing laws, rules, regulations, policies, and legal interpretations in the markets in which we offer services directly or through partners, including, but not limited to, those governing: banking, credit, deposit taking, cross-border and domestic money transmission, prepaid access, foreign currency exchange, privacy, data protection, data governance, cybersecurity, banking secrecy, digital payments, cryptocurrency, payment services (including payment processing and settlement services), fraud detection, consumer protection, antitrust and competition, economic and trade sanctions, anti-money laundering, and counter-terrorist financing. Regulators globally have been establishing and increasing their regulatory authority, oversight, and enforcement in a manner that impacts our business. As we introduce new products and services and expand into new markets, including through acquisitions, we expect to become subject to additional regulations, restrictions, and licensing requirements. As we expand and localize our international activities, we expect that our obligations in the markets in which we operate will continue to increase. In addition, because we facilitate sales of goods and provide services to customers worldwide, one or more jurisdictions may claim that we or our customers are required to comply with their laws, which may impose different, more specific, or conflicting obligations on us, as well as broader liability. Any failure or perceived failure to comply with existing or new laws, regulations, or orders of any government authority (including changes to or expansion of their interpretation) may subject us to significant fines, penalties, criminal and civil lawsuits, forfeiture of significant assets, and enforcement actions in one or more jurisdictions; result in additional compliance and licensure requirements; cause us to lose existing licenses or prevent or delay us from obtaining additional licenses that may be required for our business; increase regulatory scrutiny of our business; divert management’s time and attention from our business; restrict our operations; lead to increased friction for customers; force us to make changes to our business practices, products or operations; require us to engage in remediation activities; or delay planned transactions, product launches or improvements. Any of the foregoing could, individually or in the aggregate, harm our reputation, damage our brands and business, and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The complexity of United States (“U.S.”) federal and state and international regulatory and enforcement regimes, coupled with the global scope of our operations and the evolving global regulatory environment, could result in a single event prompting a large number of overlapping investigations and legal and regulatory proceedings by multiple government authorities in different jurisdictions. While we have implemented policies and procedures designed to help ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, and agents will not violate such laws and regulations. Payments Regulation In the U.S., PayPal, Inc. (a wholly-owned subsidiary) holds licenses to operate as a money transmitter (or its equivalent) in the states where such licenses are required, as well as in the District of Columbia and certain territories. If we violate the laws or regulations covered under our licenses, we could be subject to liability and/or additional restrictions, forced to cease doing business with residents of certain states or territories, forced to change our business practices, or required to obtain additional licenses or regulatory approvals, which could impose substantial costs and harm our business. While we currently allow our customers to send payments from approximately 200 markets, we allow customers in only approximately half of those markets (including the U.S.) to also receive payments, in some cases with significant restrictions on the manner in which customers can hold balances or withdraw funds. These limitations may adversely affect our ability to grow our business. We principally provide our services to customers in the European Economic Area (“EEA”) and the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) through PayPal (Europe), our wholly-owned subsidiary that is licensed and subject to regulation as a credit institution in Luxembourg. PayPal (Europe) is potentially subject to significant fines or other enforcement action if it violates applicable requirements. Additionally, compliance with applicable laws and regulations could become more costly and operationally difficult to manage due to potentially inconsistent interpretations and domestic regulations by various countries in the region. European regulation, such as the Revised Payment Services Directive (“PSD2”) enabling payment and account information sharing by regulated payment providers, could subject us to data security and other legal and financial risks. If the business activities of PayPal (Europe) exceed certain thresholds, or if the European Central Bank (“ECB”) determines, PayPal (Europe) may be deemed a significant supervised entity and certain activity of PayPal (Europe) would become directly supervised by the ECB, rather than by the Luxembourg Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier, which could subject us to additional requirements and would likely increase compliance costs. In many of the other markets outside the U.S. in which we do business, we serve our customers through PayPal Pte. Ltd., our wholly-owned subsidiary based in Singapore. PayPal Pte. Ltd. is supervised by the Monetary Authority of Singapore (“MAS”), but does not hold a remittance license. As a result, PayPal Pte. Ltd. is not able to offer outbound remittance payments to PayPal customers from Singapore. In many of the markets (other than Singapore) served by PayPal Pte. Ltd., it is unclear and uncertain whether our Singapore-based service is subject only to Singapore law or, if it is subject to the application of local laws, whether such local laws would require a payment processor like us to be licensed as a payments service, bank, financial institution, or otherwise. The Payment Services Act came into effect in Singapore in January 2020. PayPal Pte. Ltd. has submitted an application for a Major Payment Institution license to the MAS to continue to provide payments services, and is operating under an exemption from holding a license within a statutory transition period while the application is pending. Once PayPal Pte. Ltd. obtains its license, we will be required to comply with new regulatory requirements, which will result in increased operational complexity and costs for our Singapore and international operations. In addition, in certain markets outside of the U.S., we provide our services to customers through PayPal Pte. Ltd. or, if required by local regulations, a local branch of PayPal Pte. Ltd. or a local subsidiary subject to local regulatory supervision or oversight. From time to time, we may also acquire entities subject to local payments regulatory supervision or oversight. There are substantial costs and potential product and operational changes involved in maintaining and renewing licenses, certifications, and approvals, and we could be subject to fines, other enforcement actions, and litigation if we are found to violate any of these requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to (or decide to) continue to apply for or obtain any licenses, renewals, certifications, and approvals in any jurisdictions. In certain markets, we may rely on local banks or other partners to process payments and conduct foreign currency exchange transactions in local currency, and local regulators may use their authority over such local partners to prohibit, restrict, or limit us from doing business. The need to obtain or maintain licenses, certifications, or other regulatory approvals could impose substantial additional costs, delay or preclude planned transactions, product launches or improvements, require significant and costly operational changes, impose restrictions, limitations, or additional requirements on our business, products and services, or prevent us from providing our products or services in a given market. Cryptocurrency Regulation Our current and planned cryptocurrency offerings could subject us to additional regulations, licensing requirements, or other obligations. The rapidly evolving regulatory landscape with respect to cryptocurrency may subject us to inquiries or investigations from regulators and governmental authorities, require us to make product changes, restrict or discontinue product offerings, and implement additional and potentially costly controls. If we fail to comply with regulations, requirements, prohibitions or other obligations applicable to us, we could face regulatory or other enforcement actions and potential fines and other consequences. In addition, financial and third party risks related to our cryptocurrency offerings, such as inappropriate access to or theft or destruction of cryptocurrency assets held by our custodian, insufficient insurance coverage by the custodian to reimburse us for all such losses, the custodian’s failure to maintain effective controls over the custody and settlement services provided to us, the custodian’s inability to purchase or liquidate cryptocurrency holdings, and defaults on financial or performance obligations by counterparty financial institutions, could materially and adversely affect our financial performance and significantly harm our business. Lending Regulation We hold a number of U.S. state lending licenses for our U.S. consumer short-term installment loan product, which is subject to federal and state laws governing consumer credit and debt collection. While our non-U.S. consumer short-term installment loan products which are available in the U.K., France, Germany, Spain, Italy and Australia are generally exempt from primary consumer credit legislation, certain consumer lending laws, consumer protection or banking transparency regulations continue to apply to these products. Increased global regulatory focus on short-term installment products and consumer credit more broadly could result in laws or regulations requiring changes to our policies, procedures, operations, and product offerings, and restrict or limit our ability to offer credit products. We could be subject to fines, other enforcement action, and litigation if we are found to violate any aspects of applicable law or regulations. Consumer Protection Violations of federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations, including the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (“EFTA”) and Regulation E as implemented by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”), could result in the assessment of significant actual damages or statutory damages or penalties (including treble damages in some instances) and plaintiffs’ attorneys’ fees. We are subject to, and have paid amounts in settlement of, lawsuits containing allegations that our business violated the EFTA and Regulation E or otherwise advance claims for relief relating to our business practices (e.g., that we improperly held consumer funds or otherwise improperly limited consumer accounts). In October 2021, the CFPB issued an order pursuant to its market-monitoring authority requiring us to provide extensive information on our payment products, including with respect to the collection, use of, and access to data and consumer protections, among other items. In December 2021, the CFPB issued a separate order pursuant to its market-monitoring authority requiring us to provide information on our Buy Now, Pay Later offerings. PayPal principally offers its services in the EEA countries through a “passport” notification process through PayPal Europe's Luxembourg regulator to regulators in other EEA member states in accordance with EU regulations, as well as in the UK through the Temporary Permissions Regime. Regulators in these countries could notify us of and seek to enforce local consumer protection laws that apply to our business, in addition to Luxembourg consumer protection laws, and could also seek to persuade the local regulator to order PayPal to conduct its activities in the local country directly or through a branch office. These or similar actions by these regulators could increase the cost of, or delay, our ability to expand our business in Europe. Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorist Financing; Economic and Trade Sanctions Regulators in the U.S. and around the world continue to increase standards and expectations regarding anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing, and to expand the scope of existing laws and regulations to emerging products and markets, which may require us to further revise or expand our compliance program globally and/or in specific jurisdictions, including the procedures we use to verify the identity of our customers and to monitor international and domestic transactions. Such changes could have the effect of making compliance more costly and operationally difficult to manage, lead to increased friction for customers, and result in a decrease in business. Regulators regularly re-examine the transaction volume thresholds at which we must obtain and keep applicable records or verify identities of customers and any change in such thresholds could result in greater compliance costs and impact our business. In addition, we are required to comply with economic and trade sanctions administered by the U.S., the EU, relevant EU member states, and other jurisdictions in which we operate. Non-compliance with anti-money laundering laws and regulations or economic and trade sanctions may subject us to significant fines, penalties, lawsuits, and enforcement actions, result in regulatory sanctions and additional compliance requirements, increase regulatory scrutiny of our business, restrict our operations, and damage our reputation and brands. See “Note 13—Commitments and Contingencies” to our consolidated financial statements for disclosure relating to possible violations arising from our sanctions compliance program. Privacy and Protection of Customer Data The legal and regulatory environment relating to privacy and data protection laws continues to develop and evolve in ways we cannot predict, including with respect to technologies such as cloud computing, artificial intelligence, cryptocurrency, and blockchain technology. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our privacy policies as communicated to customers or with privacy and data protection laws could result in proceedings or actions against us by data protection authorities, government entities, or others. Such proceedings or actions could subject us to significant fines, penalties, judgments, and negative publicity, require us to change our business practices, increase the costs and complexity of compliance, result in reputational harm, and materially harm our business. In addition, compliance with inconsistent privacy and data protection laws may restrict or limit our ability to provide products and services to our customers. PayPal relies on a variety of compliance methods to transfer personal data of EEA individuals to the U.S., including Binding Corporate Rules for internal transfers of certain types of personal data and Standard Contractual Clauses (“SCCs”) as approved by the European Commission for transfers to and from third parties. In June 2021, the European Commission imposed new SCC requirements which impose certain contract and operational requirements on PayPal, its merchants, and vendors in order to adhere to certain affirmative duties, including requirements related to government access transparency, enhanced data subject rights, and broader third party assessments to ensure safeguards necessary to protect personal data exported from PayPal’s EEA customers and/or employees to countries outside the EEA. To the extent PayPal relies on SCCs, such engagements will require new contractual arrangements under the updated requirements to avoid limitations on PayPal’s ability to process EEA data in countries outside of the EEA. In the wake of the California Consumer Privacy Act passed in 2018, multiple U.S. states have adopted or proposed similar legislation to protect consumers in their states. California passed the Consumer Privacy Rights Act of 2020, and Virginia and Colorado have passed similar privacy and data protection laws. The continued increase in state-level privacy laws is likely to result in a disparate array of privacy rules with unaligned or conflicting provisions, accountability requirements, individual rights, and state enforcement powers and may subject us to increased regulatory scrutiny and business costs, and lead to unintended consumer confusion. We are subject to regulatory scrutiny and may be subject to legal proceedings under antitrust and competition laws. We are subject to scrutiny by various government agencies regarding antitrust and competition laws and regulations in the U.S. and internationally, including in connection with proposed or implemented business combinations, acquisitions, investments, partnerships, commercial agreements and business practices. Some jurisdictions also provide private rights of action for competitors or consumers to assert claims of anticompetitive conduct. Other companies and government agencies have in the past and may in the future allege that our actions violate the antitrust or competition laws of the U.S., individual states, other countries, or the EU, or otherwise constitute unfair competition. Some regulators and legislators, particularly those outside of the U.S., may perceive that our products and services are used so broadly that otherwise uncontroversial business practices could be deemed anticompetitive. Any claims or investigations, even if without merit, may be very expensive to defend or respond to, involve negative publicity, and substantial diversion of management time and effort, and could result in reputational harm, significant judgments, fines and remedial actions against us, or require us to change our business practices, make product or operational changes, or delay or preclude planned transactions, product launches or improvements. We are regularly subject to general litigation, regulatory scrutiny, and government inquiries. We are regularly subject to claims, individual and class action lawsuits, arbitration proceedings, government and regulatory investigations, inquiries, actions or requests, and other proceedings alleging violations of laws, rules, and regulations with respect to competition, antitrust, intellectual property, privacy, data protection, information security, anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist financing, sanctions, anti-bribery, anti-corruption, consumer protection, fraud, accessibility, securities, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes, services, charitable fundraising, contract disputes, escheatment of unclaimed or abandoned property, product liability, use of our services for illegal purposes, the matters described in “Note 13—Commitments and Contingencies—Litigation and Regulatory Matters—General Matters” to our consolidated financial statements, and other matters. The number and significance of these disputes and inquiries has increased and is expected to continue to increase as our products, services, and business expand in complexity, scale, scope, and geographic reach, including through acquisitions of businesses and technology. Investigations and legal proceedings are inherently uncertain, expensive and disruptive to our operations, and could result in substantial payments to satisfy judgments, fines, penalties or settlements, negative publicity, substantial diversion of management time and effort, reputational harm, criminal sanctions, or orders that prevent or limit us from offering certain products or services; require us to change our business practices in costly ways, develop non-infringing or otherwise altered products or technologies, or pay substantial royalty or licensing fees; or delay or preclude planned transactions, product launches or improvements. Determining legal reserves or possible losses from such matters involves judgment and may not reflect the full range of uncertainties and unpredictable outcomes. We may be exposed to losses in excess of the amount recorded, and such amounts could be material. If any of our estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Third parties may allege that we are infringing their patents and other intellectual property rights. We are frequently subject to litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. At any given time, we are typically a defendant in a number of patent lawsuits and subject to intellectual property infringement claims. Intellectual property infringement claims against us may result from, among other things, our expansion into new business areas, including through acquisitions of businesses and technology, and new or expanded products and services and their convergence with technologies not previously associated with areas related to our business, products, and services. The ultimate outcome of any allegation or claim is often uncertain and any such claim, with or without merit, may be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management’s time and attention from our business, result in reputational harm, and require us to, among other things, redesign or stop providing our products or services, pay substantial amounts to settle claims or lawsuits, satisfy judgments, or pay substantial royalty or licensing fees. We may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. The protection of our intellectual property, including our trademarks, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, patents and trade secrets, is important to the success of our business. Effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every jurisdiction in which we offer our products and services. Although we have generally taken measures to protect our intellectual property rights, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in protecting or enforcing our rights in every jurisdiction, or that our contractual arrangements will prevent or deter third parties from infringing or misappropriating our intellectual property, or that third parties may independently develop equivalent or superior intellectual property rights. We may be required to expend significant time and resources to prevent third party infringement and enforce our rights, and we may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of our proprietary rights. If we are unable to prevent third parties from using or offering technologies that infringe our patent or trade secret rights, the uniqueness and value of our products and services could be adversely affected. If we are unable to prevent third parties from adopting, registering, or using trademarks and trade dress that infringe, dilute, or otherwise violate our trademark rights, the value of our brands could be diminished and our business could be adversely affected. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to others. These licensees may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation. Any failure to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, or significant costs incurred in doing so, could diminish the value of our intangible assets and materially harm our business. BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS RISKS The continuing effects of the novel coronavirus (“COVID-19”) pandemic could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The ultimate extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts our business, financial condition, and results of operations will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain, difficult to predict, and subject to change, including, but not limited to, the duration, scope, severity, proliferation of variants and increase in the transmissibility of the virus, its impact on the global economy, actions taken to contain or limit the impact of COVID-19, such as the availability of an effective vaccine or treatment, geographic variation in how countries and states are handling the pandemic, and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions may potentially resume. The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely impacted and is likely to further adversely impact the operations of our customers, suppliers, vendors and other business partners, and may adversely impact our results of operations in the future. Cross-border and domestic commerce may be adversely impacted by measures taken by government authorities and businesses globally to contain and limit the spread of COVID-19, including travel restrictions, border closures, quarantines, shelter in place and lock down orders, mask and social distancing requirements, and business limitations and shutdowns. To the extent that such mitigation measures remain in place or are reinstated for significant periods of time, they may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Actions that we have taken or may take in the future intended to assist customers impacted by COVID-19 may negatively impact our results of operations. In particular, we have experienced and may continue to experience adverse financial impacts from a number of operational factors, including, but not limited to: increased liability under our buyer protection program or chargebacks on payment cards resulting from merchants’ selling goods or services in advance of the delivery date or experiencing bankruptcy, insolvency or other business interruption; customer defaults on payment obligations under PayPal branded credit products; increased cybersecurity and payment fraud risk; challenges to the availability and reliability of our products and services; and supply chain disruptions impacting our business. While our business has benefited from the shift from in-store shopping and traditional payment methods towards e-commerce and digital payments, to the extent that customer preferences revert to pre-COVID-19 behaviors as the pandemic-related restrictions lessen, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely impacted. The significant increase in the number of our employees who are working remotely as a result of the pandemic, and an extended period of remote work arrangements and subsequent reintroduction into the workplace could introduce operational risk, increase cybersecurity risk, strain our business continuity plans, negatively impact productivity, and give rise to claims by employees or otherwise adversely affect our business. Additionally, COVID-19 could require new or modified processes, procedures, and controls to respond to changes in our business environment. We may take further actions as may be required by government authorities or that we determine are in the best interests of our employees, customers, and business partners. There is no certainty that such measures will be sufficient to mitigate the risks posed by COVID-19 or will otherwise be satisfactory to government authorities. The impacts of COVID-19, individually or collectively, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and have the effect of heightening or exacerbating many of the other risks described in this “Risk Factors” section. We face substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the global payments industry. The global payments industry is highly competitive, continuously changing, highly innovative, and increasingly subject to regulatory scrutiny and oversight. Many of the areas in which we compete evolve rapidly with innovative and disruptive technologies, shifting user preferences and needs, price sensitivity of merchants and consumers, and frequent introductions of new products and services. Competition also may intensify as new competitors emerge, businesses enter into business combinations and partnerships, and established companies in other segments expand to become competitive with various aspects of our business. We compete with a wide range of businesses in every aspect of our business. Some of our current and potential competitors are larger than we are, have larger customer bases, greater brand recognition, longer operating histories, a dominant or more secure position, broader geographic scope, volume, scale, resources, and market share than we do, or offer products and services that we do not offer. Other competitors are smaller or younger companies that may be more agile in responding quickly to regulatory and technological changes. Our competitors may devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of products and services, and/or offer lower prices or more effectively offer their own innovative programs, products, and services. We often partner with many of these businesses and we consider the ability to continue establishing these partnerships to be important to our business. Competition for relationships with these partners is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to establish, grow, or maintain these partner relationships. If we are not able to differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors, drive value for our customers, or effectively and efficiently align our resources with our goals and objectives, we may not be able to compete effectively. See “Item 1. Business—Competition” of this Form 10-K for further discussion of the competitive environment in the markets where we operate. Changes to payment card networks or bank fees, rules, or practices could harm our business. To process certain transactions, we must comply with applicable payment card, bank or other network (collectively, “network”) rules. The rules govern all aspects of a transaction on the networks, including fees and other practices. From time to time, the networks have increased the fees and assessments that they charge for transactions that access their networks. Certain networks have also imposed special fees or assessments for transactions that are executed through a digital wallet such as the one that PayPal offers. Our payment processors may have the right to pass any increases in fees and assessments on to us as well as increase their own fees for processing. Any increase in interchange fees, special fees, or assessments for transactions that we pay to the networks or our payment processors could make our pricing less competitive, increase our operating costs, and reduce our operating income, which could materially harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In some jurisdictions, government regulations have required the payment card networks to reduce or cap interchange fees. Any changes in interchange fee rates or limitations, or their applicability to PayPal, could adversely affect our competitive position against payment card service providers and the revenue we earn from our branded card programs, require us to change our business practices, and harm our business. We may also be subject to fines assessed by the networks resulting from any rule violations by us or our merchants. The networks set and interpret their rules and have alleged from time to time that various aspects of our business model violate these operating rules. Such allegations may result in significant fines and penalties or require changes in our business practices that may be costly and adversely affect our business. The network rules may also increase the cost of, impose restrictions on, or otherwise impact the development of, our products which may negatively affect their deployment and adoption. The networks could adopt new operating rules or interpret or re-interpret existing rules that we or our payment processors might find difficult or even impossible to follow, or costly to implement, which could require us to make significant changes to our products. If we become unable or limited in our ability to accept certain payment types such as debit or credit cards, our business would be adversely affected. Changes in how consumers fund their PayPal transactions could harm our business. We pay transaction fees when consumers fund payment transactions using credit cards, lower fees when consumers fund payments with debit cards, and nominal fees when consumers fund payment transactions by electronic transfer of funds from bank accounts, from an existing PayPal account balance or Venmo account balance, or through our PayPal branded consumer credit products. Our financial performance is sensitive to changes in the rate at which our consumers fund payments using payment cards, which can significantly increase our costs. Although we provide consumers in certain markets with the opportunity to use their existing PayPal account balance or Venmo account balance to fund payment transactions, some of our consumers may prefer to use payment cards, which may offer features and benefits not provided as part of their PayPal accounts. An increase in the portion of our payment volume funded using payment cards or in fees associated with our funding mix, or other events or developments that make it more difficult or costly for us to fund transactions with lower-cost funding options, could materially and adversely affect our financial performance and significantly harm our business. Our ability to receive the benefit of U.S. merchant financing offerings may be subject to challenge. Merchant loans under our U.S. PayPal Working Capital (“PPWC”) and PayPal Business Loan (“PPBL”) products are provided by a state chartered industrial bank under a program agreement with us, and we acquire the receivables generated by those loans after origination. In June 2020, largely in response to the Madden v. Midland Funding, LLC case decided in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) approved a final rule clarifying that loans originated by state-chartered non-member banks remain valid throughout the lifetime of the loan, reflecting a similar rule finalized by the Office of the Comptroller of Currency (“OCC”) in May 2020. The final rule reaffirms and codifies in regulation the so-called “valid-when-made doctrine,” which provides that the interest rate for a loan is determined when the loan is made and will not be affected by subsequent events such as sale, assignment, or other transfer. A number of state attorneys general have challenged these FDIC and OCC rules, and there remains some uncertainty whether non-bank entities purchasing loan receivables originated by FDIC-insured, state chartered industrial banks may rely on federal preemption of state usury laws and other state laws. An adverse outcome of these or similar challenges, or changes to applicable laws and regulations or regulatory policy, could materially impact our U.S. PPWC and PPBL products and our business. Our credit products expose us to additional risks. We offer credit products to a wide range of consumers and merchants in the U.S. and various international markets. The financial success of these products depends on the effective management of related risk. The credit decision-making process for our consumer credit products uses proprietary methodologies and credit algorithms and other analytical techniques designed to analyze the credit risk of specific consumers based on, among other factors, their past purchase and transaction history with PayPal or Venmo and their credit scores. Similarly, proprietary risk models and other indicators are applied to assess merchants who desire to use our merchant financing offerings to help predict their ability to repay. These risk models may not accurately predict the creditworthiness of a consumer or merchant due to inaccurate assumptions, including those related to the particular consumer or merchant, market conditions, economic environment, or limited transaction history or other data. The accuracy of these risk models and the ability to manage credit risk related to our credit products may also be affected by legal or regulatory requirements, changes in consumer behavior, changes in the economic environment, issuing bank policies, and other factors. We generally rely on third-party chartered financial institutions to provide PayPal and Venmo branded consumer credit and merchant financing offerings to our U.S. customers. As a service provider to these third-party chartered financial institutions, which are federally supervised U.S. financial institutions, we are subject from time to time to examination by their federal banking regulators. In the event of any termination or interruption in a partner bank’s ability or willingness to lend, our ability to offer consumer credit and merchant financing products could be interrupted or limited, which could materially and adversely affect our business. We may be unable to reach a similar arrangement with another chartered financial institution on favorable terms or at all. Obtaining licenses to originate such loans would be a costly, time-consuming and uncertain process, and would subject us to additional laws and regulatory requirements, which could significantly increase our costs and compliance obligations and require us to change our business practices. We are subject to the risk that account holders who use our credit products will default on their payment obligations, creating the risk of potential charge-offs or negative impact to revenue share arrangement with Synchrony Bank with respect to our U.S. consumer credit product. The non-payment rate among account holders may increase due to, among other factors, changes to underwriting standards, risk models not accurately predicting the creditworthiness of a user, worsening economic conditions, such as a recession or government austerity programs, increases in prevailing interest rates, and high unemployment rates. Account holders who miss payments often fail to repay their loans, and account holders who file for protection under the bankruptcy laws generally do not repay their loans. We currently purchase receivables related to our PayPal branded merchant financing offerings in the U.S. and extend credit for our consumer and merchants products outside the U.S. through our international subsidiaries. If we are unable to fund our credit products, or the purchase of the receivables related to our merchant financing offerings in the U.S. adequately or in a cost-effective manner, or if we are unable to efficiently manage the cash resources utilized for these purposes, the growth of our credit products could be negatively impacted. For information on lending regulations that impact our business, see “ Our business is subject to extensive government regulation and oversight. Our failure to comply with extensive, complex, overlapping, and frequently changing rules, regulations, and legal interpretations could materially harm our business — Lending Regulation ” in this risk factor section. We rely on third parties in many aspects of our business, which creates additional risk. We rely on third parties in many aspects of our business, including, but not limited to: networks, banks, payment processors, and payment gateways that link us to the payment card and bank clearing networks to process transactions; unaffiliated third-party lenders to originate our U.S. credit products to consumers, U.S. merchant financing, and branded credit card products; PayPal-branded debit card products issued by an unaffiliated bank; cryptocurrency custodial service providers; and external business partners and contractors who provide key functions (e.g., outsourced customer support and product development functions; facilities; information technology, data center facilities and cloud computing). These risks include legal, regulatory, information security, reputational, operational, or any other risks inherent in engaging and relying upon a third-party. If we are unable to effectively manage our third-party relationships, these third parties are unable to meet their obligations to us, or we experience substantial disruptions in these relationships, our operations, results of operations, and financial results could be adversely impacted. Additionally, while we have policies and procedures for managing these relationships, they inherently involve a lesser degree of control over business operations, governance, and compliance, thereby potentially increasing our financial, legal, reputational, and operational risk. Any factors that reduce cross-border trade or make such trade more difficult could harm our business. Cross-border trade (i.e., transactions where the merchant and consumer are in different countries) is an important source of our revenues and profits. Cross-border transactions generally provide higher revenues and operating income than similar transactions that take place within a single country or market. In certain markets, cross-border trade represents our primary (and in some instances our only) presence. Cross-border trade may be negatively impacted by various factors including, but not limited to, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and the interpretation and application of laws of multiple jurisdictions in the context of cross-border trade and foreign exchange. Any factors that increase the costs of cross-border trade for us or our customers or that restrict, delay, or make cross-border trade more difficult or impractical, such as trade policy, higher tariffs, or localization requirements, could reduce our cross-border transactions and volume, negatively impact our revenues and profits, and harm our business. Failure to deal effectively with fraud, abusive behaviors, bad transactions, and negative customer experiences would increase our loss rate and could negatively impact our business and severely diminish merchant and consumer confidence in and use of our services. Third parties have attempted, and we expect that they will likely continue to attempt, to abuse access to and misuse our payment services to commit fraud by, among other things, creating fictitious PayPal accounts using stolen or synthetic identities or personal information, making transactions with stolen financial instruments, abusing or misusing our services for financial gain, or fraudulently inducing users of our systems into engaging in bad transactions. Due to the nature of PayPal’s digital payments services, third parties may seek to engage in abusive schemes or fraud attacks that are often difficult to detect and may be deployed at a scale that would otherwise not be possible in physical transactions. Measures to detect and reduce the risk of fraud and abusive behavior are complex, require continuous improvement, and may not be effective in detecting and preventing fraud, particularly new and continually evolving forms of fraud or in connection with new or expanded product offerings. If these measures do not succeed, our business could be negatively impacted. We also incur substantial losses from erroneous transactions and situations where funding instruments used for legitimate transactions are closed or have insufficient funds to satisfy payments, or the payment is made to an unintended recipient in error. Numerous and evolving fraud schemes and misuse of our payments service could subject us to significant costs and liabilities, require us to change our business practices, cause us to incur significant remediation costs, lead to loss of customer confidence in, or decreased use of, our products and services, damage our reputation and brands, divert the attention of management from the operation of our business, and result in significant compensation or contractual penalties from us to our customers and their business partners as a result of losses to or claims by them. Our buyer and seller protection programs are intended to reduce the likelihood of losses for consumers and merchants from fraudulent transactions. The buyer protection program also, protects consumers if they do not receive the item ordered or if the item received is significantly different from its description. We incur substantial losses from our buyer and seller protection programs as a result of disputes filed by our customers. We seek to recover losses from our buyer and seller protection programs from the merchant, but may not be able to fully recover them if the merchant is unwilling or unable to pay, the transaction involves a fraudulent merchant, or the merchant provides sufficient evidence that the item was delivered. In addition, consumers who pay through PayPal or Venmo may have reimbursement rights from their payment card issuer, which in turn will seek recovery from us. If losses incurred by us related to payment card transactions become excessive, we could lose the ability to accept payment cards for payment, which would negatively impact our business. Regulators and card networks may also adapt error resolution and chargeback requirements to account for evolving forms of fraud, which could increase PayPal’s exposure to fraud losses and impact the scope of coverage of our buyer and seller protection programs. Increases in our loss rate, including as a result of changes to the scope of transactions covered by our buyer and seller protection programs, could negatively impact our business. See “Note 13—Commitments and Contingencies—Protection Programs” to our consolidated financial statements. Failure to effectively monitor and evaluate the financial condition of our merchants may also expose PayPal to losses. In the event of the bankruptcy, insolvency, business failure, or other business interruption of a merchant that sells goods or services in advance of the date of their delivery or use (e.g., airline, cruise, or concert tickets, custom-made goods, and subscriptions), we could be liable to the buyers of such goods or services, including through our buyer protection program or through chargebacks on payment cards used by customers to fund their payments. Allowances for transaction losses that we have established may be insufficient to cover incurred losses. Use of our payments services for illegal activities or improper purposes could harm our business. Users have attempted, and may attempt in the future, to use our payments platform for illegal activities or improper uses, such as money laundering, terrorist financing, sanctions evasion, illegal online gambling, fraudulent sales of goods or services, illegal telemarketing activities, illegal sales of prescription medications or controlled substances, piracy of software, movies, music, and other copyrighted or trademarked goods (in particular, digital goods), bank fraud, child pornography, human trafficking, prohibited sales of alcoholic beverages or tobacco products, securities fraud, pyramid or ponzi schemes, or the facilitation of other illegal or improper activity. Moreover, certain activity that may be legal in one jurisdiction may be illegal in another jurisdiction, and a merchant may be found responsible for intentionally or inadvertently importing or exporting illegal goods, resulting in liability for us. Owners of intellectual property rights or government authorities may seek to bring legal action against providers of payments solutions, including PayPal, that are peripherally involved in the sale of infringing or allegedly infringing items. While we invest in measures intended to prevent and detect illegal activities that may occur within our payments platform, these measures require continuous improvement and may not be effective in detecting and preventing illegal activity or improper uses. Any illegal or improper uses of our payments platform by our users may subject us to claims, individual and class action lawsuits, and government and regulatory requests, inquiries, or investigations that could result in liability, restrict our operations, require us to change our business practices, harm our reputation, increase our costs, and negatively impact our business. For example, government enforcement or regulatory authorities could seek to impose additional restrictions or liability on us arising from the use of our payments platform for illegal or improper activity, and our failure to detect or prevent such use. Acquisitions, strategic investments, and other strategic transactions could result in operating difficulties and could harm our business. We expect to continue to consider and evaluate a wide array of potential strategic transactions as part of our overall business strategy, including, but not limited to, business combinations, acquisitions, and dispositions of certain businesses, technologies, services, products, and other assets; strategic investments; and commercial and strategic partnerships (collectively, “strategic transactions”). At any given time, we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more strategic transactions, any of which could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to our financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, negotiating, consummating and integrating favorable transaction opportunities. Strategic transactions may involve additional significant challenges, uncertainties, and risks, including, but not limited to, challenges of integrating new employees, products, systems, technologies, operations, and business cultures; challenges associated with operating acquired businesses in markets in which we may have limited or no experience; failure to develop the acquired business adequately; disruption of our ongoing operations and diversion of our management’s attention; inadequate data security, cybersecurity and operational and information technology resilience; failure to identify, or our underestimation of, commitments, liabilities, deficiencies and other risks associated with acquired businesses or assets; potential exposure to new risks associated with acquired businesses and entities, including potential new or increased regulatory oversight and uncertain or evolving legal, regulatory, and compliance requirements; potential reputational risks that could arise from transactions with, or investments in, companies, particularly those involved in new or developing businesses or industries, which may be subject to uncertain or evolving legal, regulatory, and compliance requirements; failure of the transaction to advance our business strategy and of its anticipated benefits to materialize; potential impairment of goodwill or other acquisition-related intangible assets; and the potential for our acquisitions to result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities or significant additional debt. Strategic transactions may also heighten many of the risks described in this “Risk Factors” section. These transactions are inherently risky, may not be successful, and may harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Strategic investments in which we have a minority ownership stake inherently involve a lesser degree of influence over business operations. We may be dependent on controlling shareholders, management, or other persons or entities who control them and who may have business interests, strategies, or goals that are inconsistent with ours. Business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling shareholders, management, or other persons or entities who control companies in which we invest may adversely affect the value of our investment, result in litigation or regulatory action against us, and damage our reputation and brand. Our international operations subject us to increased risks, which could harm our business. Our international operations generate approximately one-half of our net revenues. Our international operations, including any expansion in international markets, subject us to significant challenges, uncertainties, and risks, including, but not limited to: local regulatory, licensing, reporting, and legal obligations; costs and challenges associated with operating in markets in which we may have limited or no experience, including effectively localizing our products and services and adapting them to local preferences; difficulties in developing, staffing, and simultaneously managing a large number of varying foreign operations as a result of distance, language, and cultural differences and in light of varying laws, regulations, and customs; differing employment practices and the existence of works councils; difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified employees and maintaining our company culture; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; exchange control regulations; profit repatriation restrictions; potential tariffs, sanctions, fines, or other trade barriers or restrictions; import or export regulations; compliance with U.S. and foreign anti-bribery, anti-corruption, sanctions, anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations; the interpretation and application of laws of multiple jurisdictions; and national or regional political, economic, or social instability. Our international operations also may heighten many of the other risks described in this “Risk Factors” section. Any violations of the complex foreign and U.S. laws, rules and regulations that may apply to our international operations may result in fines, criminal actions, or sanctions against us and, our directors, officers, and employees; prohibit or require us to change our business practices; and damage our reputation. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies. These risks are inherent in our international operations, may increase our costs of doing business internationally, and could materially and adversely affect our business. Brexit: The U.K.’s departure from the EU could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Following the departure of the U.K. from the EU and the EEA on January 31, 2020 (commonly referred to as “Brexit”) and the expiration of the transition period on December 31, 2020, there continues to be uncertainty over the practical consequences of Brexit including the potential for Brexit to contribute to long-term instability in financial, stock and currency exchange markets, greater restrictions on the supply and availability of goods and services between the U.K. and EEA region, and a general deterioration in consumer sentiment and credit conditions leading to overall negative economic growth and increased risk of merchant default. The consequences of Brexit have brought legal uncertainty and increased complexity for financial services firms, which could continue as national laws and regulations in the U.K. differ from EU laws and regulations and additional authorization requirements come into effect. These developments have led and could lead in the future to additional regulatory costs and challenges for us, including, but not limited to, the following: • PayPal (Europe) operates in the U.K. within the scope of its passport permissions (as they existed at the end of the transition period) pursuant to the Temporary Permissions Regime pending the grant of new U.K. authorizations by the U.K. financial regulators. If we are unable to obtain the required authorizations before the expiry of the longstop dates set by the U.K. regulators under the Temporary Permissions Regime, our European operations could lose their ability to offer services into the U.K. market on a cross-border basis; and • our European operations being required to comply with new legal and regulatory requirements in the U.K. that may be in addition to, or inconsistent with, those of the EEA, in each case, leading to increased complexity and costs. Global and regional economic conditions could harm our business. Adverse global and regional economic conditions such as turmoil affecting the banking system or financial markets, including, but not limited to, tightening in the credit markets, extreme volatility or distress in the financial markets (including the fixed income, credit, currency, equity, and commodity markets), higher unemployment, high consumer debt levels, recessionary or inflationary pressures, supply chain issues, reduced consumer confidence or economic activity, government fiscal and tax policies, U.S. and international trade relationships, agreements, treaties, tariffs and restrictive actions, the inability of a government to enact a budget in a fiscal year, government shutdowns, government austerity programs, and other negative financial news or macroeconomic developments could have a material adverse impact on the demand for our products and services, including a reduction in the volume and size of transactions on our payments platform. Additionally, any inability to access the capital markets when needed due to volatility or illiquidity in the markets and increased regulatory liquidity and capital requirements may strain our liquidity position. Such conditions may also expose us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates that could materially and adversely affect our financial results. See “Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Impact of Foreign Currency Exchange Rates and Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for additional information on our financial risks. Real or perceived inaccuracies in our metrics may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. Our key metrics are calculated using internal company data based on the activity we measure on our platform and may be compiled from multiple systems, including systems that are organically developed or acquired through business combinations. While the measurement of our key metrics is based on what we believe to be reasonable methodologies and estimates, there are inherent challenges and limitations in measuring our key metrics globally at scale. The methodologies used to calculate our key metrics require judgment. We regularly review our processes for calculating these key metrics, and from time to time we may make adjustments to improve their accuracy or relevance. For example, we continuously apply models, processes and practices designed to detect and prevent fraudulent account creation on our platforms, and work to improve and enhance those capabilities. When we detect a significant volume of illegitimate activity, we generally remove the activity identified from our key metrics. Although such adjustments may impact key metrics reported in prior periods, we generally do not update previously reported key metrics to reflect these subsequent adjustments unless the retrospective impact of process improvements or enhancements is determined by management to be material. Further, as our business develops, we may revise or cease reporting metrics if we determine that such metrics are no longer appropriate measures of our performance. If investors, analysts, or customers do not consider our reported measures to be sufficient or to accurately reflect our business, we may receive negative publicity, our reputation may be harmed, and our business may be adversely impacted. Environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) issues may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and damage our reputation. Customers, investors, employees and other stakeholders are increasingly focused on ESG practices, including our efforts with respect to global talent, cybersecurity, data privacy and protection and climate change. If we do not adapt to and comply with new laws and regulations or changes to legal or regulatory requirements concerning ESG matters, or fail to meet rapidly evolving investor, industry or stakeholder expectations and standards, or if the Company is perceived to have not responded appropriately to growing concerns with respect to ESG issues, our reputation may be harmed, customers may choose to refrain from using our products and services, and our business or financial condition may be adversely affected. We specifically recognize the inherent physical climate-related risks wherever business is conducted. Our primary locations may be vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change. For example, California, where our headquarters is located, has historically experienced, and is projected to continue to experience, climate-related events more frequently, including drought, water scarcity, heat waves, wildfires and resultant air quality impacts, and power shutoffs associated with wildfire prevention. These extreme weather conditions may disrupt our business and may cause us to experience additional costs to maintain or resume operations and higher attrition. In addition, current and emerging legal and regulatory requirements with respect to climate change (e.g., carbon pricing) and other aspects of ESG (e.g., disclosure requirements) may result in increased compliance requirements on our business and supply chain, which may increase our operating costs and cause disruptions in our operations. If one or more of our counterparty financial institutions default on their financial or performance obligations to us or fail, we may incur significant losses. We have significant amounts of cash, cash equivalents, receivables outstanding, and other investments on deposit or in accounts with banks or other financial institutions in the U.S. and international jurisdictions. As part of our currency hedging activities, we enter into transactions involving derivative financial instruments with various financial institutions. Certain banks and financial institutions are also lenders under our credit facilities. We regularly monitor our exposure to counterparty credit risk, and actively manage this exposure to mitigate the associated risk. Despite these efforts, we may be exposed to the risk of default by, or deteriorating operating results or financial condition or failure of, these counterparty financial institutions. If one of our counterparties were to become insolvent or file for bankruptcy, our ability to recover losses incurred as a result of default or to access or recover our assets that are deposited, held in accounts with, or otherwise due from, such counterparty may be limited by the counterparty’s liquidity or the applicable laws governing the insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings. In the event of default or failure of one or more of our counterparties, we could incur significant losses, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. There are risks associated with our indebtedness. We have incurred indebtedness, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our ability to pay interest and repay the principal for our indebtedness is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations and generate sufficient cash flows to service such debt. Our outstanding indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we incur may have significant consequences, including, without limitation: requiring us to use a significant portion of our cash flow from operations and other available cash to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes, including capital expenditures, acquisitions, strategic investments, and share repurchases; reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business, competition pressures and market conditions; and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, strategic investments, share repurchases, or other general corporate and other purposes. Our revolving credit facilities and the indentures for our senior unsecured notes pursuant to which certain of our outstanding debt securities were issued contain financial and other covenants that restrict or could restrict, among other things, our business and operations. If we fail to pay amounts due under a debt instrument or breach any of its covenants, the lenders would typically have the right to demand immediate repayment of all borrowings thereunder (subject in certain cases to a grace or cure period). Moreover, any such acceleration and required repayment of, or default in respect of, our indebtedness could, in turn, constitute an event of default under other debt instruments, thereby resulting in the acceleration and required repayment of our indebtedness. Any of these events could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. Changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could negatively affect the value of both our debt and equity securities and increase our borrowing costs. If our credit ratings are downgraded or other negative action is taken, the interest rates payable by us under our indebtedness may increase, and our ability to obtain additional financing in the future on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected. Changes in tax laws, exposure to unanticipated additional tax liabilities, or implementation of record-keeping obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business. An increasing number of U.S. states, the U.S. federal government, and foreign jurisdictions, as well as international organizations, such as the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development and the EU Commission, are focused on tax reform and other legislative or regulatory action to increase tax revenue. Various countries have proposed or enacted digital services taxes. These actions may materially affect our effective tax rate. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation and significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are currently undergoing a number of investigations, audits, and reviews by tax authorities in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Any adverse outcome of any such audit or review could result in unforeseen tax-related liabilities that differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements, which may, individually or in the aggregate, materially affect our financial results in the periods for which such determination is made. While we have established reserves based on assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonable to cover such eventualities, these reserves may prove to be insufficient. In addition, our future income taxes could be adversely affected by the incurrence of losses or earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates, and earnings being higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, including as a result of gains on our foreign currency exchange risk management program; by changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles; or by certain discrete items. A number of U.S. states, the U.S. federal government, and foreign jurisdictions have implemented and may impose reporting or record-keeping obligations on companies that engage in or facilitate e-commerce to improve tax compliance. A number of jurisdictions are also reviewing whether payment service providers and other intermediaries could be deemed to be the legal agent of merchants for certain tax purposes. We have modified our systems to meet applicable requirements and expect that further modifications will be required to comply with future requirements, which may negatively impact our customer experience and increase operational costs. Any failure by us to comply with these and similar reporting and record-keeping obligations could result in substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions, adversely impact our ability to do business in certain jurisdictions, and harm our business. We may be unable to attract, retain, and develop the highly skilled employees we need to support our business. Competition for key and other highly skilled personnel is intense, especially for executive talent, software engineers, and other technology talent. We may be limited in our ability to recruit or hire internationally, including due to restrictive laws or policies on immigration, travel, or availability of visas for skilled workers. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our inability to attract, hire, develop, motivate and retain key and other highly qualified and diverse talent, whether in a remote or in-office environment, or address the safety, health and productivity of our workforce could harm our overall business and results of operations. We are subject to risks associated with information disseminated through our products and services. We may be subject to claims relating to information disseminated through our online services, including claims alleging defamation, libel, harassment, hate speech, breach of contract, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials disseminated through the services, among other things. We invest in measures intended to detect and block activities that may occur within our payments platform in violation of our policies. These measures require continuous improvement and may not be effective in detecting and preventing the exchange of information in violation of our policies. If these measures are not effective, our business could be negatively impacted. If the laws or regulations that provide protections for online dissemination of information are invalidated or are modified to reduce protections available to us and we become liable for information provided by our customers and carried on our products and services, we could be directly harmed and we may be forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure, including expending substantial resources or discontinuing certain product or service offerings, which could harm our business.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including statements that involve expectations, plans, or intentions (such as those relating to future business, future results of operations or financial condition, new or planned features or services, mergers or acquisitions, or management strategies). Additionally, our forward-looking statements include expectations related to anticipated impacts of the coronavirus pandemic. These forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as “may,” “will,” “would,” “should,” “could,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “intend,” “strategy,” “future,” “opportunity,” “plan,” “project,” “forecast,” and other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results and financial condition to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, among others, those discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Form 10-K, as well as in our consolidated financial statements, related notes, and the other information appearing in this report and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). We do not intend, and undertake no obligation except as required by law, to update any of our forward-looking statements after the date of this report to reflect actual results or future events or circumstances. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. You should read the following “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear in this report. Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context otherwise requires, references to “we,” “our,” “us,” “the Company,” and “PayPal” refer to PayPal Holdings, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations focuses on discussion of 2021 results as compared to 2020 results. For discussion of 2020 results as compared to 2019 results, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” within our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 filed with the SEC on February 5, 2021. BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT THE COMPANY We are a leading technology platform that enables digital payments and simplifies commerce experiences on behalf of merchants and consumers worldwide. PayPal is committed to democratizing financial services to help improve the financial health of individuals and to increase economic opportunity for entrepreneurs and businesses of all sizes around the world. Our goal is to enable our merchants and consumers to manage and move their money anywhere in the world in the markets we serve, anytime, on any platform, and using any device when sending payments or getting paid, including person-to-person payments. Regulatory environment We operate globally and in a rapidly evolving regulatory environment characterized by a heightened focus by regulators globally on all aspects of the payments industry, including countering terrorist financing, anti-money laundering, privacy, cybersecurity, and consumer protection. The laws and regulations applicable to us, including those enacted prior to the advent of digital payments, are continuing to evolve through legislative and regulatory action and judicial interpretation. New or changing laws and regulations, including changes to their interpretation and implementation, as well as increased penalties and enforcement actions related to non-compliance, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We monitor these areas closely and are focused on designing compliant solutions for our customers. Information security Information security risks for global payments and technology companies like us have increased significantly in recent years. Although we have developed systems and processes designed to protect the data we manage, prevent data loss and other security incidents and effectively respond to known and potential risks, and expect to continue to expend significant resources to bolster these protections, we remain subject to these risks and there can be no assurance that our security measures will provide sufficient security or prevent breaches or attacks. For additional information regarding our information security risks, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors— Cyberattacks and security vulnerabilities could result in serious harm to our reputation, business, and financial condition. ” COVID-19 The coronavirus (“COVID-19”) pandemic has resulted in government authorities and businesses throughout the world implementing numerous measures intended to contain and limit the spread of COVID-19, including travel restrictions, border closures, quarantines, shelter-in-place and lock-down orders, mask and social distancing requirements, and business limitations and shutdowns. The spread of COVID-19 and increased variants has caused, and may continue to cause us to make significant modifications to our business practices, including enabling most of our workforce to work from home, establishing strict health and safety protocols for our offices, restricting physical participation in meetings, events, and conferences, and imposing restrictions on employee travel. We will continue to actively monitor the situation and may take further actions that alter our business practices as may be required by federal, state, or local authorities or that we determine are in the best interests of our employees, customers, or business partners. The spread of COVID-19 has also accelerated the shift from in-store shopping and traditional in-store payment methods (e.g., cash) towards e-commerce and digital payments and resulted in increased customer demand for safer payment and delivery solutions (e.g., contactless payment methods, buy online and pick up in store) and significant increases in online spending in certain verticals that have historically had a strong in-store presence. On balance, our business has benefited from these behavioral shifts. To the extent that consumers revert to pre-COVID-19 behaviors as the pandemic-related restrictions lessen, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely impacted. The rapidly changing global market and economic conditions as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic have impacted, and are expected to continue to impact, our operations and business. The broader implications of the COVID-19 pandemic and related global economic unpredictability on our business, financial condition, and results of operations remain uncertain. For additional information on how the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted and could continue to negatively impact our business, see below for specific discussion in the respective areas, and also refer to “Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K. BREXIT The United Kingdom (“U.K.”) formally exited the European Union (“EU”) and the European Economic Area (“EEA”) on January 31, 2020 (commonly referred to as “Brexit”) with the expiration of the transition period on December 31, 2020. PayPal (Europe) S.à.r.l. et Cie, SCA (“PayPal (Europe)”) operates in the U.K. within the scope of its passport permissions (as they stood at the end of the transition period) under the Temporary Permissions Regime pending the grant of new U.K. authorizations by the U.K. financial regulators. We are currently unable to determine the longer-term impact that Brexit will have on our business, which will depend, in part, on the implications of new tariff, trade, and regulatory frameworks that now govern the provision of cross-border goods and services between the U.K. and the EEA, as well as the financial and operational consequences of the requirement for PayPal (Europe) to obtain new U.K. authorizations to operate its business longer-term within the U.K. market. For additional information on how Brexit could affect our business, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors— Brexit: The U.K.'s departure from the EU could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations .” Brexit may contribute to instability in financial, stock, and foreign currency exchange markets, including volatility in the value of the British Pound and Euro. We have foreign currency exchange exposure management programs designed to help reduce the impact from foreign currency exchange rate movements.  The tables below provide the percentage of our total net revenues and gross loans and interest receivable from the U.K. and EU (excluding the U.K.) for the periods presented: The change in the percentage of gross loans and interest receivable due from customers in the U.K. and EU year-over-year was primarily attributable to expansion of our installment credit products in the EU. OVERVIEW OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table provides a summary of our consolidated financial results for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019: All amounts in tables are rounded to the nearest million, except as otherwise noted. As a result, certain amounts may not recalculate using the rounded amounts provided. ** Not Meaningful Net revenues increased $3.9 billion, or 18%, in 2021 compared to 2020 driven primarily by growth in total payment volume (“TPV”, as defined below under “Key Metrics”) of 33%. Total operating expenses increased $2.9 billion, or 16%, in 2021 compared to 2020 due primarily to an increase in transaction expense, and to a lesser extent, increases in sales and marketing expenses, technology and development expenses, and customer support and operations expenses, partially offset by a decline in transaction and credit losses. Operating income increased $973 million, or 30%, in 2021 compared to 2020 due to growth in net revenues, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses. Our operating margin was 17% and 15% in 2021 and 2020, respectively. Operating margin for 2021 was positively impacted primarily by the decrease in transaction and credit losses. Net income decreased by $33 million, or 1%, in 2021 as compared to 2020 due to a decrease in other income (expense), net of $1.9 billion, driven primarily by lower net gains on strategic investments in 2021 compared to the prior year, partially offset by the previously discussed increase in operating income of $973 million and a decrease in income tax expense of $933 million  associated with lower net gains on strategic investments, higher benefits associated with stock-based compensation deductions, and lower expense related to intra-group transfers of intellectual property. IMPACT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES We have significant international operations that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the British Pound, Euro, Australian dollar, and Canadian dollar, subjecting us to foreign currency exchange risk which may adversely impact our financial results. The strengthening or weakening of the United States (“U.S.”) dollar versus the British Pound, Euro, Australian dollar, and Canadian dollar, as well as other currencies in which we conduct our international operations, impacts the translation of our net revenues and expenses generated in these foreign currencies into the U.S. dollar. In 2021, 2020, and 2019, we generated approximately 46%, 49%, and 47% of our net revenues from customers domiciled outside of the United States, respectively. Because we generate substantial net revenues internationally, we are subject to the risks of doing business outside of the U.S., including those discussed under “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” We calculate the year-over-year impact of foreign currency exchange movements on our business using prior period foreign currency exchange rates applied to current period transactional currency amounts. While changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect our reported results, we have a foreign currency exchange exposure management program in which we designate certain foreign currency exchange contracts as cash flow hedges intended to reduce the impact on earnings from foreign currency exchange rate movements. Gains and losses from these foreign currency exchange contracts are recognized as a component of transaction revenues in the same period the forecasted transactions impact earnings. In the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, the year-over-year foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar had the following impact on our reported results: While we enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to help reduce the impact on earnings from foreign currency exchange rate movements, it is impossible to predict or eliminate the total effects of this exposure. We also used a foreign currency exchange contract, designated as a net investment hedge, to reduce the foreign currency exchange risk related to our investment in a foreign subsidiary. This contract matured in 2020. Gains and losses associated with this instrument will remain in accumulated other comprehensive income until the foreign subsidiary is sold or substantially liquidated. Additionally, in connection with transactions occurring in multiple currencies on our payments platform, we generally set our foreign currency exchange rates daily and may face financial exposure if we incorrectly set our foreign currency exchange rates or as a result of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates between the times that we set our foreign currency exchange rates and when transactions occur. Given that we also have foreign currency exchange risk on our assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries, we have an additional foreign currency exchange exposure management program in which we use foreign currency exchange contracts to offset the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our assets and liabilities. The foreign currency exchange gains and losses on our assets and liabilities are recorded in other income (expense), net, and are offset by the gains and losses on the foreign currency exchange contracts. These foreign currency exchange contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our assets and liabilities. KEY METRICS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS KEY METRICS Active accounts, number of payment transactions, number of payment transactions per active account, and TPV are key non-financial performance metrics (“key metrics”) that management uses to measure the performance of our business, and are defined as follows: • An active account is an account registered directly with PayPal or a platform access partner that has completed a transaction on our platform, not including gateway-exclusive transactions, within the past 12 months. A platform access partner is a third party whose customers are provided access to PayPal’s platform or services through such third party’s login credentials, including entities that utilize Hyperwallet’s payout capabilities. A user may register on our platform to access different products and may register more than one account to access a product. Accordingly, a user may have more than one active account. The number of active accounts provides management with additional perspective on the growth and overall scale of our platform. • Number of payment transactions are the total number of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed on our payments platform or enabled by PayPal via a partner payment solution, not including gateway-exclusive transactions. • Number of payment transactions per active account reflects the total number of payment transactions within the previous 12-month period, divided by active accounts at the end of the period. The number of payment transactions per active account provides management with insight into the average number of times a customer account engages in payments activity on our payments platform in a given period. • TPV is the value of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed on our payments platform or enabled by PayPal via a partner payment solution, not including gateway-exclusive transactions. As our transaction revenue is typically correlated with TPV growth and the number of payment transactions completed on our payments platform, management uses these metrics to gain insights into the scale and strength of our payments platform, the engagement level of our customers, and underlying activity and trends which are indicators of current and future performance. We present these key metrics to enhance investors’ evaluation of the performance of our business and operating results. Our key metrics are calculated using internal company data based on the activity we measure on our platform and may be compiled from multiple systems, including systems that are organically developed or acquired through business combinations. While the measurement of our key metrics is based on what we believe to be reasonable methodologies and estimates, there are inherent challenges and limitations in measuring our key metrics globally at our scale. The methodologies used to calculate our key metrics require judgment. We regularly review our processes for calculating these key metrics, and from time to time we may make adjustments to improve their accuracy or relevance. For example, we continuously apply models, processes and practices designed to detect and prevent fraudulent account creation on our platforms, and work to improve and enhance those capabilities. When we detect a significant volume of illegitimate activity, we generally remove the activity identified from our key metrics. Although such adjustments may impact key metrics reported in prior periods, we generally do not update previously reported key metrics to reflect these subsequent adjustments unless the retrospective impact of process improvements or enhancements is determined by management to be material. NET REVENUES Our revenues are classified into the following two categories: • Transaction revenues : Net transaction fees primarily charged to merchants on a transaction basis based on the TPV completed on our payments platform. Growth in TPV is directly impacted by the number of payment transactions that we enable on our payments platform. We earn additional fees from merchants and consumers on transactions where we perform currency conversion, where we enable cross-border transactions (i.e., transactions where the merchant and consumer are in different countries), to facilitate the instant transfer of funds for our customers from their PayPal or Venmo account to their debit card or bank account, to facilitate the purchase and sale of cryptocurrencies, and other miscellaneous fees. • Revenues from other value added services: Net revenues derived primarily from revenue earned through partnerships, referral fees, subscription fees, gateway fees, and other services we provide to our merchants and consumers. We also earn revenues from interest and fees earned on our portfolio of loans receivable, and interest earned on certain assets underlying customer balances. Our revenues can be significantly impacted by, but not limited to, the following: • The mix of merchants, products, and services; • The mix between domestic and cross-border transactions; • The geographic region or country in which a transaction occurs; and • The amount of our loans receivable outstanding with merchants and consumers. Refer to “Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K for further discussion on factors that impact our revenue. Net revenues analysis The components of our net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019 were as follows (in millions): Transaction revenues Transaction revenues grew by $3.5 billion, or 17%, in 2021 compared to 2020 mainly attributable to our Braintree and core PayPal products and services, and to a lesser extent, Venmo products and services driven by strong growth in TPV and the number of payment transactions on our payments platform. In the year ended December 31, 2021, we benefited from the recovery of travel and events verticals, which were adversely impacted in the prior year as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. These factors favorably impacting growth in transaction revenues in 2021 were partially offset by a decline in TPV and revenue we generate from eBay’s marketplace platform, which we expect to continue, to a lesser extent, to negatively impact revenue growth trends in the first half of 2022. In the first quarter of 2020, we experienced an adverse impact on our TPV and transaction revenues due to the initial impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. In the second quarter of 2020, we benefited from a shift from in-store payment methods to digital payments (as described above) which was sustained throughout the remainder of 2020 and in 2021. The graphs below present the respective key metrics (in millions) for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019: *Reflects active accounts at the end of the applicable period. Active accounts as of December 31, 2021 and 2020 include 3.2 million active accounts contributed by Paidy, Inc. (“Paidy”) on the date of acquisition in October 2021 and 10.2 million active accounts contributed by Honey on the date of acquisition in January 2020, respectively. The following table provides a summary of related metrics: ** Not meaningful We had active accounts of 426 million and 377 million as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, an increase of 13%. Number of payment transactions were 19.3 billion and 15.4 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, an increase of 25%. TPV was $1.25 trillion and $936 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, an increase of 33%. Transaction revenues grew more slowly than TPV and the number of payment transactions in 2021 due primarily to a decline in eBay’s marketplace platform TPV where we had historically earned higher rates, lower growth in foreign exchange fees, a higher portion of TPV generated through Braintree by bill pay partners, large merchants, and other marketplaces which generally pay lower rates with higher transaction volumes, and an unfavorable impact from hedging. Changes in prices charged to our customers did not significantly impact transaction revenue growth in 2021. Revenues from other value added services Revenues from other value added services increased by $433 million, or 28%, in 2021 compared to 2020 due primarily to increases in our revenue share with Synchrony Bank (“Synchrony”) and fee revenue from the servicing of loans under the U.S government’s Paycheck Protection Program (“PPP”) administered by the U.S. Small Business Administration (“SBA”) and enacted in March 2020 under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. We do not own the receivables associated with loans originated through the PPP. The fee revenue associated with the PPP loans in the year ended December 31, 2021 was $157 million, which included revenue recognized upon loan forgiveness and the extinguishment of our servicing obligations for a portion of the outstanding loans. At December 31, 2021, the remaining unearned fee revenue associated with the PPP loans was not material. The growth in revenue from other value added services in the year ended December 31, 2021 was also attributable to an increase in interest and fee revenue on our consumer loans receivable portfolio driven primarily by growth in international markets, partially offset by a decline in interest and fee revenue on our merchant loans receivable portfolio due to a decrease in average outstanding loans year-over-year and a decline in interest earned on certain assets underlying customer account balances resulting from lower interest rates. The total gross consumer and merchant loans receivable balance as of December 31, 2021 and 2020 was $5.3 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively, reflecting a year-over-year increase of 48% driven primarily by growth in our consumer receivable portfolio due to the expansion of our installment credit products, including the entry into new markets. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we took both proactive and reactive measures during 2020 to support our merchants and consumers that had loans and interest receivables due to us under our credit product offerings. These measures were intended to help reduce financial difficulties experienced by our customers and included providing payment holidays to grant payment deferrals to certain borrowers for varying periods of time, and amended payment terms through loan modifications in certain cases. Given the uncertainty surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic, including its duration and severity, related global economic conditions and the ultimate impact it may have on the financial condition of our merchants and consumers, the extent of these types of actions and their prospective impact on our interest and fee income is not determinable. In addition, consumers that have outstanding loans and interest receivable due to Synchrony may experience similar hardships that result in increased losses recognized by Synchrony, which may result in a decrease in our revenue share earned from Synchrony in future periods. In the event the overall return on the PayPal branded credit programs funded by Synchrony does not meet a minimum rate of return (“minimum return threshold”) in a particular quarter, our revenue share for that period would be zero. Further, in the event the overall return on the PayPal branded credit programs managed by Synchrony does not meet the minimum return threshold as measured over four consecutive quarters and in the following quarter, we would be required to make a payment to Synchrony, subject to certain limitations. Through December 31, 2021, the overall return on the PayPal branded credit programs funded by Synchrony exceeded the minimum return threshold. Seasonality The Company does not experience meaningful seasonality with respect to net revenues. No individual quarter in 2021, 2020, or 2019 accounted for more than 30% of annual net revenue. OPERATING EXPENSES The following table summarizes our operating expenses and related metrics we use to assess the trends in each: (1) Transaction expense rate is calculated by dividing transaction expense by TPV. (2) Transaction and credit loss rate is calculated by dividing transaction and credit losses by TPV. ** Not meaningful. Transaction expense Transaction expense is primarily composed of the costs we incur to accept a customer’s funding source of payment. These costs include fees paid to payment processors and other financial institutions when we draw funds from a customer’s credit or debit card, bank account, or other funding source they have stored in their digital wallet. We refer to the allocation of funding sources used by our consumers as our “funding mix.” The cost of funding a transaction with a credit or debit card is generally higher than the cost of funding a transaction from a bank or through internal sources such as a PayPal or Venmo account balance or our consumer credit products. As we expand the availability and presentation of alternative funding sources to our customers, our funding mix may change, which could increase or decrease our transaction expense rate. The cost of funding a transaction is also impacted by the geographic region or country in which a transaction occurs, as we generally pay lower rates for transactions funded with credit or debit cards outside the U.S. Our transaction expense rate is impacted by changes in product mix, merchant mix, regional mix, funding mix, and fees paid to payment processors and other financial institutions. Macroeconomic environment changes may also result in behavioral shifts in consumer spending patterns affecting the type of funding source they use, which also impacts the funding mix. Transaction expense increased by $2.4 billion, or 30%, in 2021 compared to 2020 due primarily to an increase in TPV of 33%. The decrease in transaction expense rate in 2021 compared to 2020 was due primarily to a decline in transaction expense rates associated with both our core PayPal and Braintree products, offset by an increase in the share of volume associated with our Braintree products. For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019, approximately 39%, 40%, and 41% of TPV, respectively, was generated outside of the U.S. Transaction and credit losses Transaction losses include the expense associated with our buyer and seller protection programs, fraud, and chargebacks. Credit losses include the losses associated with our merchant and consumer loans receivable portfolio. Beginning in 2020, these losses are based on current expected credit losses. Our transaction and credit losses fluctuate depending on many factors, including TPV, product mix, current and projected macroeconomic conditions including unemployment rates, merchant insolvency events, changes to and usage of our customer protection programs, the impact of regulatory changes, and the credit quality of loans receivable arising from transactions funded with our credit products for consumers and loans and advances to merchants. The components of our transaction and credit losses (in millions) for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019 were as follows: Transaction and credit losses decreased by $681 million, or 39%, in 2021 compared to 2020. Transaction losses were $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, reflecting an increase of $18 million, or 2%, year-over-year. Transaction loss rate (transaction losses divided by TPV) was 0.09%, 0.12%, and 0.15% for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively. The increase in transaction losses was due primarily to growth in TPV, partially offset by benefits realized from continued risk mitigation strategies, which also contributed to a decrease in our transaction loss rate over the same period. The duration and severity of the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and related global economic conditions remain unknown. Any negative impacts on macroeconomic conditions could increase the risk of merchant bankruptcy, insolvency, business failure, or other business interruption, which may adversely impact our transaction losses, particularly for merchants that sell goods or services in advance of the date of their delivery or use. Credit losses decreased by $699 million, or 115%, in 2021 compared to 2020. The components of credit losses for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019 were as follows (in millions): (1) Credit losses for the year end December 31, 2019 were based on accounting guidance which was superseded by the adoption of Accounting Standards Update 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments (“CECL”), effective January 1, 2020. (2) Net charge-offs includes the principal charge-offs partially offset by recoveries for consumer and merchant receivables. (3) Reserve build (release) represents change in allowance for principal receivables excluding foreign currency remeasurement and, for 2020, impact of adoption of  CECL. The benefit in the year ended December 31, 2021 was attributable to the net release of reserves for loans receivable due to improvements in both current and projected macroeconomic conditions, including lower projected unemployment rates, as well as improvements in the credit quality of loans outstanding, partially offset by provisions for originations during the period.  Allowances for our merchant and consumer portfolios included qualitative adjustments which took into account continued volatility with respect to macroeconomic conditions, as well as uncertainty around the financial health of our merchant borrowers, including uncertainty around the effectiveness of loan modification programs made available to merchants. The credit losses in the year ended December 31, 2020 were primarily associated with an increase in provisions for our loans receivable portfolio resulting from a reserve build driven by a sharp deterioration in macroeconomic projections reflecting the anticipated impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and provisions associated with originations, both of which significantly increased our then current expected credit losses, and to a lesser extent, changes in credit quality during the period. The increase in provisions associated with macroeconomic projections in the year ended December 31, 2020 included qualitative adjustments to account for the impact of limitations in our expected credit loss models resulting from the extreme fluctuations in both the actual and projected macroeconomic conditions during the period as well as to incorporate varying degrees of merchant performance in the current environment and expected performance in future periods. The consumer loans and interest receivable balance as of December 31, 2021 and 2020 was $3.8 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively, representing a year-over-year increase of 77% driven by growth of our installment credit products in international markets and the U.S. and, to a lesser extent, growth of PayPal Credit in international markets. Approximately 53% and 77% of our consumer loans receivable outstanding as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, were due from consumers in the U.K. The decline in the percentage of consumer loans receivable outstanding in the U.K. at December 31, 2021 compared to December 31, 2020 was due to overall growth in the consumer loan portfolio, particularly from installment credit products in other markets. The following table provides information regarding the credit quality of our consumer loans and interest receivable balance: (1) Represents percentage of balances which are 90 days past the billing date or contractual repayment date, as applicable. (2) Net charge-off rate is the annual ratio of net credit losses, excluding fraud losses, on consumer loans receivable as a percentage of the average daily amount of consumer loans and interest receivable balance during the period. The net charge-off rate at December 31, 2020 benefited from payment holidays provided by the Company as a part of our COVID-19 payment relief initiatives. We offer access to merchant finance products for certain small and medium-sized businesses, which we refer to as our merchant finance offerings. Total merchant loans, advances, and interest and fees receivable outstanding, net of participation interest sold, as of both December 31, 2021 and 2020 were approximately $1.4 billion. Approximately 82% and 8% of our merchant receivables outstanding as of December 31, 2021 were due from merchants in the U.S. and U.K., as compared to approximately 81% and 10% as of December 31, 2020, respectively. The following table provides information regarding the credit quality of our merchant loans, advances, and interest and fees receivable balance: (1) Net charge-off rate is the annual ratio of net credit losses, excluding fraud losses, on merchant loans and advances as a percentage of the average daily amount of merchant loans, advances, and interest and fees receivable balance during the period. The increase in the percent of current merchant receivables, decrease in percent of merchant receivables greater than 90 days outstanding, and decrease in the net charge-off rate for merchant receivables at December 31, 2021 as compared to December 31, 2020 were primarily due to the charge-off of accounts that experienced financial difficulties as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic in the prior year as well as improved performance in the current year partially attributable to the below mentioned modifications to the acceptable risk parameters including tightening of eligibility terms. Beginning in the third quarter of 2020, we granted certain merchants loan modifications intended to provide them with financial relief and help enable us to mitigate losses. The associated loans and interest receivable have been treated as troubled debt restructurings due to the borrowers experiencing financial difficulty and significant changes in their loan structure, including repayment terms and/or fee and rate structure. Modifications to the acceptable risk parameters of our credit products in 2020 in response to the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in the implementation of a number of risk mitigation strategies, including reduction of maximum loan size, tightening eligibility terms, and a shift from automated to manual underwriting of loans and advances. These changes in acceptable risk parameters resulted in a decrease in originations in 2020 as compared to pre-pandemic levels. We continue to evaluate and modify our acceptable risk parameters in response to the changing macroeconomic environment and such changes in 2021 have resulted in a gradual increase in originations over the past nine months. While the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the economic environment remains uncertain, the longer and more severe the pandemic, the more likely it may have a material adverse impact on our borrowing base, which is primarily comprised of small and medium-sized merchants. For additional information, see “Note 11—Loans and Interest Receivable” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements, and “Item 1A. Risk Factors— Our credit products expose us to additional risks ” included in this Form 10-K. Customer support and operations Customer support and operations includes costs incurred in our global customer operations centers, including costs to provide call support to our customers, costs to support our trust and security programs protecting our merchants and consumers, and other costs incurred related to the delivery of our products, including payment devices, card production, and customer onboarding and compliance costs. Customer support and operations costs increased $297 million, or 17%, in 2021 compared to 2020. The increase in 2021 was primarily attributable to increases in employee-related expenses, customer onboarding and compliance costs, and contractors and consulting costs that support the growth of our active accounts and payment transactions. Sales and marketing Sales and marketing includes costs incurred for customer acquisition, business development, advertising, and marketing programs. Sales and marketing expenses increased $584 million, or 31%, in 2021 compared to 2020 due primarily to higher spending on marketing programs, including targeted user incentives to promote increased user engagement and new user acquisition, and, to a lesser extent, an increase in employee-related expenses. Technology and development Technology and development includes costs incurred in connection with the development of our payments platform, new products, and the improvement of our existing products, including the amortization of software and website development costs incurred in developing our payments platform, which are capitalized. It also includes acquired developed technology and our site operations and other infrastructure costs incurred to support our payments platform. Technology and development expenses increased $396 million, or 15%, in 2021 compared to 2020 due primarily to increases in cloud computing services utilized in delivering our products, costs related to contractors and consultants, and, to a lesser extent, amortization expense associated with internally developed software. General and administrative General and administrative includes costs incurred to provide support to our business, including legal, human resources, finance, risk and compliance, executive, and other support operations. General and administrative expenses increased $44 million, or 2%, in 2021 compared to 2020 due primarily to increases in employee-related expenses and costs associated with enterprise software services, partially offset by a decline in professional services expenses. Restructuring and other charges Restructuring and other charges primarily consist of restructuring expenses. Restructuring and other charges decreased by $77 million in 2021 compared to 2020. During the first quarter of 2020, management approved a strategic reduction of the existing global workforce as part of a multiphase process to reorganize our workforce concurrently with the redesign of our operating structure, which spanned multiple quarters. During the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, the associated restructuring changes were $27 million and $109 million, respectively. We primarily incurred employee severance and benefits costs, as well as other associated consulting costs under the 2020 strategic reduction, substantially all of which have been accrued as of the second quarter of 2021. For information on the associated restructuring liability, see “Note 17—Restructuring and Other Charges” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K. Additionally, in 2021 and 2020, we incurred asset impairment charges of $26 million and $30 million, respectively, due to exiting certain leased properties which resulted in a reduction of certain right-of-use lease assets and related leasehold improvements. Other income (expense), net Other income (expense), net decreased $1.9 billion, or 109%, in 2021 compared to 2020 due primarily to lower net gains on strategic investments of $46 million in 2021 compared to $1.9 billion in 2020. Income tax (benefit) expense Our effective tax rate was (2)% in 2021 and 17% in 2020. The decrease in our effective tax rate in 2021 was primarily the result of a decrease in tax expense related to the intra-group transfers of intellectual property, an increase in tax benefits associated with stock-based compensation deductions, and a decrease in tax expense associated with lower net gains on strategic investments. See “Note 16—Income Taxes” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K for more information on our effective tax rate. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES We require liquidity and access to capital to fund our global operations, including customer protection programs, our credit products, capital expenditures, investments in our business, potential acquisitions and strategic investments, working capital, and other cash needs. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, and investments, cash expected to be generated from operations, and our expected access to capital markets, together with potential external funding through third party sources, will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements within the next twelve months and beyond. SOURCES OF LIQUIDITY Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash The following table summarizes our cash, cash equivalents, and investments as of December 31, 2021 and 2020: (1) Excludes assets related to funds receivable and customer accounts of $36.1 billion and $33.4 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. (2) Excludes total restricted cash of $109 million and $88 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, and strategic investments of $3.2 billion as of both December 31, 2021 and 2020. Cash, cash equivalents, and investments held by our foreign subsidiaries were $7.4 billion at December 31, 2021 and $7.0 billion at December 31, 2020, or 57% and 44%, of our total cash, cash equivalents, and investments as of those respective dates. At December 31, 2021, all of our cash, cash equivalents, and investments held by foreign subsidiaries were subject to U.S. taxation under Subpart F, Global Intangible Low Taxed Income (“GILTI”), or the one-time transition tax under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (“Tax Act”). Subsequent repatriations to the U.S. will not be taxable from a U.S. federal tax perspective, but may be subject to state income or foreign withholding tax. A significant aspect of our global cash management activities involves meeting our customers’ requirements to access their cash while simultaneously meeting our regulatory financial ratio commitments in various jurisdictions. Our global cash balances are required not only to provide operational liquidity to our businesses, but also to support our global regulatory requirements across our regulated subsidiaries. Accordingly, not all of our cash is available for general corporate purposes. Cash flows The following table summarizes our consolidated statements of cash flows: Operating activities Cash flows from operating activities includes net income adjusted for certain non-cash expenses, timing differences between expenses recognized for provision for transaction and credit losses and actual cash transaction losses incurred, and changes in other assets and liabilities. Significant non-cash expenses for the period include depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation. The cash impact from actual transaction losses incurred during a period is reflected as changes in other assets and liabilities. The expenses recognized during the period for provision for credit losses are estimates of current expected credit losses on our merchant and consumer credit products. Actual charge-offs of receivables related to our merchants and consumer credit products have no impact on cash from operating activities. We generated cash from operating activities of $6.3 billion in 2021 due primarily to operating income of $4.3 billion, as well as adjustments for non-cash expenses including stock-based compensation of $1.4 billion, depreciation and amortization of $1.3 billion, and provision for transaction and credit losses of $1.1 billion. Net income was also adjusted for deferred income taxes of $482 million, an increase in accounts receivable of $222 million, and changes in other assets and liabilities primarily related to actual cash transaction losses incurred during the period of $1.2 billion, partially offset by an increase in other liabilities of $406 million. We generated cash from operating activities of $5.9 billion in 2020 due primarily to operating income of $3.3 billion, as well as adjustments for non-cash expenses including provision for transaction and credit losses of $1.7 billion, stock-based compensation of $1.4 billion, and depreciation and amortization of $1.2 billion. Net income was also adjusted for net gains on our strategic investments of $1.9 billion, changes in other assets and liabilities primarily related to actual cash transaction losses incurred during the period of $1.1 billion, and an increase in other assets of $498 million, partially offset by an increase in other liabilities of $1.0 billion. Cash paid for income taxes, net in 2021, 2020, and 2019 was $474 million, $565 million, and $665 million, respectively. Investing activities Cash flows from investing activities includes purchases, maturities and sales of investments, cash paid for acquisitions and strategic investments, purchases and sales of property and equipment, changes in principal loans receivable, and funds receivable. The net cash used in investing activities of $5.5 billion in 2021 was due primarily to purchases of investments of $40.1 billion, acquisitions (net of cash acquired) of $2.8 billion, changes in principal loans receivable, net of $1.6 billion, and purchases of property and equipment of $908 million. These cash outflows were partially offset by maturities and sales of investments of $39.7 billion and changes in funds receivable from customers of $193 million. The net cash used in investing activities of $16.2 billion in 2020 was due primarily to purchases of investments of $41.5 billion,  acquisitions (net of cash acquired) of $3.6 billion, changes in funds receivable from customers of $1.6 billion, and purchases of property and equipment of $866 million. These cash outflows were partially offset by maturities and sales of investments of $30.9 billion, changes in principal loans receivable, net of $294 million, and proceeds from the sale of property and equipment of $120 million. Financing activities Cash flows from financing activities includes proceeds from issuance of common stock, purchases of treasury stock, tax withholdings related to net share settlements of equity awards, borrowings and repayments under financing arrangements, and funds payable and amounts due to customers. The net cash used in financing activities of $764 million in 2021 was due primarily to the repurchase of $3.4 billion of our common stock under our stock repurchase program, tax withholdings of $1.0 billion related to net share settlement of equity awards, and repayments of borrowings under Paidy credit agreements of $361 million. These cash outflows were partially offset by changes in funds payable and amounts due to customers of $3.6 billion and cash proceeds from borrowings under Paidy credit agreements of $272 million. We generated cash from financing activities of $12.5 billion in 2020 due primarily to changes in funds payable and amounts due to customers of $10.6 billion and $7.0 billion of cash proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt in the form of fixed rate notes as well as proceeds from borrowings under our Credit Agreement (as defined below under “Available credit and debt”). These cash inflows were partially offset by repayment of outstanding borrowings under our Credit Agreement of $3.0 billion, the repurchase of $1.6 billion of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, and tax withholdings related to net share settlement of equity awards of $521 million. Effect of exchange rates on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash Foreign currency exchange rates had a negative impact of $102 million and a positive impact of $169 million on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash during 2021 and 2020, respectively. The negative and positive impacts in 2021 and 2020, respectively, resulted primarily from fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar to the Australian dollar. The negative impact in 2021 included, to a lesser extent, the unfavorable impact of fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar to the Euro and Swedish krona. Available credit and debt In September 2019, we entered into a credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) that provides for an unsecured $5.0 billion, five-year revolving credit facility that includes a $150 million letter of credit sub-facility and a $500 million swingline sub-facility, with available borrowings under the revolving credit facility reduced by the amount of any letters of credit and swingline borrowings outstanding from time to time. As of December 31, 2021, no borrowings were outstanding under the Credit Agreement and as such, $5.0 billion of borrowing capacity was available for the purposes permitted by the Credit Agreement, subject to customary conditions to borrowing. In October 2021, we assumed a credit agreement through our acquisition of Paidy (the “Paidy Credit Agreement”). The Paidy Credit Agreement provides for a secured revolving credit facility of approximately $198 million. Borrowings under the Paidy Credit Agreement must be used to fund the origination of loan receivables. As of December 31, 2021, approximately $98 million was outstanding under the Paidy Credit Agreement. Accordingly, at December 31, 2021, approximately $100 million of borrowing capacity was available for the purposes permitted by the Paidy Credit Agreement, subject to customary conditions to borrowing. We maintain uncommitted credit facilities in various regions throughout the world with a borrowing capacity of approximately $90 million in the aggregate, where we can withdraw and utilize the funds at our discretion for general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2021, the majority of the borrowing capacity under these credit facilities was available, subject to customary conditions to borrowing. In May 2020 and September 2019, we issued fixed rate notes with varying maturity dates for an aggregate principal amount of $9.0 billion (collectively referred to as the “Notes”). Proceeds from the issuance of these Notes may be used for general corporate purposes, which may include funding the repayment or redemption of outstanding debt, share repurchases, ongoing operations, capital expenditures, and possible acquisitions of businesses, assets, or strategic investments. As of December 31, 2021, we had $9.0 billion in fixed rate debt outstanding with varying maturity dates. For additional information, see “Note 12—Debt” to our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K. Depending on market conditions, we may from time to time issue debt, including in private or public offerings, to fund our operating activities, finance acquisitions, make strategic investments, repurchase shares under our stock repurchase program, or reduce our cost of capital. We have a cash pooling arrangement with a financial institution for cash management purposes. The arrangement allows for cash withdrawals from the financial institution based upon our aggregate operating cash balances held within the financial institution (“Aggregate Cash Deposits”). The arrangement also allows us to withdraw amounts exceeding the Aggregate Cash Deposits up to an agreed-upon limit. The net balance of the withdrawals and the Aggregate Cash Deposits are used by the financial institution as a basis for calculating our net interest expense or income under the arrangement. As of December 31, 2021, we had a total of $3.5 billion in cash withdrawals offsetting our $3.5 billion in Aggregate Cash Deposits held within the financial institution under the cash pooling arrangement. Credit ratings As of December 31, 2021, we continue to be rated investment grade by Standard and Poor’s Financial Services, LLC, Fitch Ratings, Inc., and Moody’s Investors Services Inc. We expect that these credit rating agencies will continue to monitor our performance, including our capital structure and results of operations. Our goal is to be rated investment grade, but as circumstances change, there are factors that could result in our credit ratings being downgraded or put on a watch list for possible downgrading. If that were to occur, it could increase our borrowing rates, including the interest rate on borrowings under our Credit Agreement. CURRENT AND FUTURE CASH REQUIREMENTS Our material cash requirements include funds to support current and potential: operating activities, credit products, customer protection programs, stock repurchases, strategic investments, acquisitions, other commitments, and capital expenditures and other future obligations. Credit products Growth in our portfolio of loan receivables increases our liquidity needs, and any inability to meet those liquidity needs could adversely affect our business. We continue to evaluate partnerships and third party sources of funding for our loans receivable portfolio. In June 2018, the Luxembourg Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier (the “CSSF”) agreed that PayPal’s management may designate up to 35% of European customer balances held in our Luxembourg banking subsidiary to be used for European and U.S. credit activities. During the first quarter of 2021, an additional $700 million was approved to fund such credit activities. As of December 31, 2021, the cumulative amount approved by management to be designated for credit activities aggregated to $2.7 billion and represented approximately 27% of European customer balances that have been made available for our corporate use at that date as determined by applying financial regulations maintained by the CSSF. We may periodically seek to designate additional amounts of customer balances, if necessary, based on utilization of the approved funds and anticipated credit funding requirements. While our objective is to expand the availability of our credit products with capital from external sources, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving that goal. Under certain exceptional circumstances, corporate liquidity could be called upon to meet our obligations related to our European customer balances. In April 2020, PayPal was approved to participate in the PPP administered by the SBA. The program was designed to provide a direct incentive for small businesses to keep their workers on payroll during the COVID-19 pandemic and includes initial loan repayment deferrals and debt forgiveness provisions for eligible borrowers. Loans made under this program are funded by an independent chartered financial institution that we partner with, and the related receivables are not purchased by PayPal. We receive a fee for providing origination services and loan servicing for the loans and retain operational risk related to those activities. Customer protection programs The risk of losses from our buyer and seller protection programs are specific to individual customers, merchants, and transactions, and may also be impacted by regional variations in, and changes or modifications to, the programs, including as a result of changes in regulatory requirements. For the periods presented in these consolidated financial statements included in this report, our transaction loss rates have ranged between 0.09% and 0.15% of TPV. Historical loss rates may not be indicative of future results. The duration and severity of the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and related global economic conditions remain unknown. The negative impacts on macroeconomic conditions could increase the risk of merchant bankruptcy, insolvency, business failure, or other business interruption, which may result in an adverse impact on our transaction losses, particularly for merchants that sell goods or services in advance of the date of their delivery or use. Stock repurchases During the year ended December 31, 2021, we repurchased approximately $3.4 billion of our common stock in the open market under our stock repurchase program authorized in July 2018. As of December 31, 2021, a total of approximately $5.1 billion remained available for future repurchases of our common stock under our July 2018 stock repurchase program. For additional information, see “Note 14—Stock Repurchase Programs” to our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K. Acquisitions In October 2021, we completed the acquisition of Paidy, Inc. (“Paidy”) for approximately $2.7 billion, consisting of approximately $2.6 billion in cash, and approximately $161 million in assumed restricted stock and restricted stock units, subject to vesting conditions. Paidy is a two-sided payments platform that primarily provides buy now, pay later solutions (installment credit offerings) in Japan. With the acquisition of Paidy, we intend to expand our capabilities and relevance in Japan. In 2021, we completed four other acquisitions for an aggregate purchase price of $542 million, consisting primarily of cash consideration. For additional information, see “Note 4—Business Combinations” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K. Other commitments In 2020, we announced our commitment to invest $535 million to support racial equality. As of December 31, 2021, we have deployed substantially all the commitment through charitable contributions, grants to small businesses, internal investments to support and strengthen diversity and inclusion initiatives, and an economic opportunity fund focused on bolstering our relationships with community banks and credit unions serving underrepresented minority communities, as well as investing directly into black- and minority-led startups and minority-focused investment funds, among other initiatives. Future obligations As of December 31, 2021, approximately $4.1 billion of unused credit was available to PayPal Credit account holders compared to $3.0 billion of unused credit as of December 31, 2020. Substantially all of the PayPal Credit account holders with unused credit are in the U.K. While this amount represents the total unused credit available, we have not experienced, and do not anticipate, that all of our PayPal Credit account holders will access their entire available credit at any given point in time. In addition, the individual lines of credit that make up this unused credit are subject to periodic review and termination based on, among other things, account usage and customer creditworthiness. We have certain fixed contractual obligations and commitments that include future estimated payments for general operating purposes. Changes in our business needs, contractual cancellation provisions, fluctuating interest rates, and other factors may result in actual payments differing from our estimates. We cannot provide certainty regarding the timing and amounts of these payments. The following table summarizes our obligations as of December 31, 2021 that are expected to impact liquidity and cash flow in future periods. We believe we will be able to fund these obligations through our existing cash and investment portfolio and cash expected to be generated from operations. The significant assumptions used in our determination of amounts presented in the above table are as follows: • Purchase obligation amounts include minimum purchase commitments for advertising, capital expenditures (computer equipment, software applications, engineering development services, and construction contracts), data center and cloud computing services, and other goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. • Operating lease amounts include minimum rental payments under our non-cancelable operating leases (including leases not yet commenced) primarily for office and data center facilities. The amounts presented are consistent with contractual terms and are not expected to differ significantly from actual results under our existing leases, unless a substantial change in our headcount needs requires us to expand our occupied space or exit an office facility early. • Transition tax represents the one-time mandatory tax on previously deferred foreign earnings under the Tax Act. • Long-term debt amounts represent the future principal and interest payments (based on contractual interest rates) on our fixed-rate debt. For more information, see “Note 12—Debt” to our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K. As we are unable to reasonably predict the timing of settlement of liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits, net, the table above does not include $1.6 billion of such non-current liabilities included in deferred and other tax liabilities recorded on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2021. Other considerations Our liquidity, access to capital, and borrowing costs could be adversely impacted by declines in our credit rating, our financial performance, and global credit market conditions, as well as a broad range of other factors, including those related to the COVID-19 pandemic discussed in this Form 10-K. In addition, our liquidity, access to capital, and borrowing costs could also be negatively impacted by the outcome of any of the legal or regulatory proceedings to which we are a party. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Note 13—Commitments and Contingencies” to our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K for additional discussion of these and other risks that our business faces. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICES AND ESTIMATES The application of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) requires us to make estimates and assumptions about certain items and future events that directly affect our reported financial condition. We have established detailed policies and control procedures to provide reasonable assurance that the methods used to make estimates and assumptions are well controlled and are applied consistently from period to period. The accounting estimates and assumptions discussed in this section are those that we consider to be the most critical to our financial statements. An accounting estimate or assumption is considered critical if both (a) the nature of the estimate or assumption is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment involved, and (b) the impact within a reasonable range of outcomes of the estimate and assumption is material to our financial condition. Management has discussed the development, selection, and disclosure of these estimates with the Audit, Risk, and Compliance Committee of our Board of Directors. Our significant accounting policies, including recent accounting pronouncements, are described in “Note 1 — Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10 ‑ K. A quantitative sensitivity analysis is provided where information is available to reasonably estimate the impact, and provides material information to investors. The amounts used to assess sensitivity are included to allow users of this report to understand a general directional cause and effect of changes in the estimates and do not represent management’s predictions of variability. For all these estimates, it should be noted that future events rarely develop exactly as forecasted, and such estimates require regular review and adjustment. ALLOWANCE FOR TRANSACTION AND CREDIT LOSSES Transaction and credit losses include the expense associated with our customer protection programs, fraud, chargebacks, and credit losses associated with our loans receivable balances. Our transaction and credit losses fluctuate depending on many factors, including: total TPV, product mix, current and projected macroeconomic conditions including unemployment rates, merchant insolvency events, changes to and usage of our customer protection programs, the impact of regulatory changes, and the credit quality of loans receivable arising from transactions funded with our credit products, which include revolving and installment credit products offered to consumers at checkout and merchant loans and advances arising from the PayPal Working Capital (“PPWC”) and PayPal Business Loan (“PPBL”) products. We establish allowances for negative customer balances and estimated transaction losses arising from processing customer transactions, such as chargebacks for unauthorized credit card use and merchant-related chargebacks due to non-delivery or unsatisfactory delivery of purchased items, buyer protection program claims, account takeovers, and Automated Clearing House returns. Additions to the allowance, in the form of provisions, are reflected in transaction and credit losses on our consolidated statements of income. The allowances are based on known facts and circumstances, internal factors including experience with similar cases, historical trends involving collection and write-off patterns, and the mix of transaction and loss types, as well as current and projected macroeconomic factors, as appropriate. We also establish an allowance for loans and interest receivable, which represents our estimate of current expected credit losses inherent in our portfolio of loans and interest receivable. This evaluation process is subject to numerous estimates and judgments. The allowance is primarily based on expectations of credit losses based on historical lifetime loss data as well as macroeconomic forecasts applied to the portfolio, which is segmented by factors such as geographic region, delinquency, and vintage. Loss curves are generated using historical loss data for each loan portfolio and are applied to segments of each portfolio, categorized by factors such as geographic region, first borrowing versus repeat borrowing, delinquency, credit rating and vintage, which vary by portfolio. We then apply macroeconomic factors such as forecasted trends in unemployment and benchmark credit card charge-off rates, which are sourced externally, using a single scenario that we believe is most appropriate to the economic conditions applicable to a particular period. We utilize externally sourced macroeconomic scenario data to supplement our historical information due to the limited period in which our credit product offerings have been in existence. Projected loss rates, inclusive of historical loss data and macroeconomic factors, are applied to the principal amount of our consumer and merchant receivables. We also include qualitative adjustments that incorporate incremental information not captured in the quantitative estimates of our current expected credit losses. Our consumer receivables consist of revolving products, which do not have a contractual term, and installment products. The reasonable and supportable forecast period for revolving products, installment products, and merchant products that we have included in our projected loss rates, which approximates the estimated life of the loans, is approximately 2 years, approximately 7 months to 2.5 years, and approximately 2.5 to 3.5 years, respectively. In 2020, the reasonable and supportable forecast period for revolving consumer products was based only on externally sourced data due to the lack of availability of historical data, and in 2021, it was updated to reflect historical loss experience with the portfolio. The allowance for current expected credit losses on interest and fees receivable is determined primarily by applying loss curves to each portfolio by geography, delinquency, and period of origination, among other factors. Determining appropriate current expected credit loss allowances for loans and interest receivable is an inherently uncertain process and ultimate losses may vary from the current estimates. We regularly update our allowance estimates as new facts become known and events occur that may impact the settlement or recovery of losses. The allowances are maintained at a level we deem appropriate to adequately provide for current expected credit losses at the balance sheet date after incorporating the impact of externally sourced macroeconomic forecasts. These forecasts project scenarios such as future unemployment and benchmark credit card charge-off rates. As of December 31, 2021, we utilized externally published projections of the U.S. and U.K. forecasted unemployment rates over the reasonable and supportable forecast period. As of December 31, 2020, we utilized externally published projections of the U.S. forecasted credit card charge-off rates and U.K forecasted unemployment rates over the reasonable and supportable forecast period. The overall principal and interest coverage ratio as of  December 31, 2021 and 2020 was approximately 9% and 23%, respectively. A significant change in the forecasted macroeconomic factors could result in a material change in our allowances. Our allowance as of December 31, 2021 took into account continued volatility with respect to macroeconomic conditions and uncertainty around the financial health of our merchant borrowers, including uncertainty around the effectiveness of loan modification programs made available to merchants. Our allowance as of December 31, 2020 took into account for the proactive and reactive measures that we took to help reduce financial difficulties experienced by our customers, limitations in our expected credit loss models that arose due to the extreme fluctuations in both the actual and forecasted macroeconomic conditions in the period, varying degrees of merchant performance in the current environment as well as expected future performance, and to account for payment holidays granted. We are unable to predict the ultimate impact of these actions which may result in adjustments to our allowance for loans and interest receivable in future periods. An increase of 1% in the principal and interest coverage ratio would increase our allowances by approximately $53 million based on the loans and interest receivable balance outstanding as of December 31, 2021. ACCOUNTING FOR INCOME TAXES Our annual tax rate is based on our income, statutory tax rates, and tax planning opportunities available to us in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and respective government taxing authorities. Significant judgment is required in determining our tax expense and in evaluating our tax positions, including evaluating uncertainties. We review our tax positions quarterly and adjust the balances as new information becomes available. Our income tax rate is significantly affected by the tax rates that apply to our foreign earnings. In addition to local country tax laws and regulations, our income tax rate depends on the extent that our foreign earnings are taxed by the U.S. through provisions such as the GILTI tax and base erosion anti-abuse tax or as a result of our indefinite reinvestment assertion. Indefinite reinvestment is determined by management’s judgment about, and intentions concerning, our future operations. Deferred tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable on taxable income in future years. Such assets arise because of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, as well as from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. We evaluate the recoverability of these future tax deductions and credits by assessing the adequacy of future expected taxable income from all sources, including reversal of taxable temporary differences, forecasted operating earnings, and available tax planning strategies. These sources of income rely heavily on estimates that are based on a number of factors, including our historical experience and short-range and long-range business forecasts. To the extent deferred tax assets are not expected to be realized, we record a valuation allowance. We recognize and measure uncertain tax positions in accordance with U.S. GAAP, pursuant to which we only recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We report a liability for unrecognized tax benefits resulting from uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. U.S. GAAP further requires that a change in judgment related to the expected ultimate resolution of uncertain tax positions be recognized in earnings in the quarter in which such change occurs. We recognize interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. We file annual income tax returns in multiple taxing jurisdictions around the world. A number of years may elapse before an uncertain tax position is audited by the relevant tax authorities and finally resolved. While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or the timing of resolution of any particular uncertain tax position, we believe that our reserves for income taxes are adequate such that we reflect the benefits more likely than not to be sustained in an examination. We adjust these reserves, as well as the related interest and penalties, where appropriate in light of changing facts and circumstances. Settlement of any particular position could require the use of cash. Based on our results for the year ended December 31, 2021, a one-percentage point increase in our effective tax rate would have resulted in an increase in our income tax expense of approximately $41 million. LOSS CONTINGENCIES We are currently involved in various claims, regulatory and legal proceedings, and investigations of potential operating violations by regulatory oversight authorities. We regularly review the status of each significant matter and assess our potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim, legal proceeding, or potential regulatory violation is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and whether an exposure is reasonably estimable. Our judgments are subjective and are based on the status of the legal or regulatory proceedings, the merits of our defenses, and consultation with in-house and outside legal counsel. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to pending claims, litigation, or other violations and may revise our estimates. Due to the inherent uncertainties of the legal and regulatory process in the multiple jurisdictions in which we operate, our judgments may differ materially from the actual outcomes. REVENUE RECOGNITION Application of the accounting principles in U.S. GAAP related to the measurement and recognition of revenue requires us to make judgments and estimates. Complex arrangements with nonstandard terms and conditions may require significant contract interpretation to determine the appropriate accounting. Specifically, the determination of whether we are a principal to a transaction (gross revenue) or an agent (net revenue) can require considerable judgment. Further, we provide incentive payments to consumers and merchants. Evaluating whether these incentives are a payment to a customer, or consideration payable on behalf of a customer, requires judgment. Incentives determined to be made to a customer, or payable on behalf of a customer, are recorded as a reduction to gross revenue. Changes in judgments with respect to these assumptions and estimates could impact the amount of revenue recognized. VALUATION OF GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLES The valuation of assets acquired in a business combination require the use of significant estimates and assumptions. The acquisition method of accounting for business combinations requires us to estimate the fair value of assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in an acquired business to properly allocate purchase price consideration between assets that are depreciated or amortized and goodwill. Our estimates are based upon assumptions that we believe to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. These valuations require the use of management’s assumptions, which do not reflect unanticipated events and circumstances that may occur.