********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Our operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, those listed below.  When considering an investment in our securities, carefully read and consider these risks, together with all other information in our other filings and submissions to the SEC, which provide much more information and detail.  If any of the events described in the following risk factors actually occur, our business, financial condition and/ or operating results, as well as the market price of our securities, could be materially adversely affected. Risk Factors Related to the COVID-19 Pandemic Pandemics or other health crises, such as the pandemic, may adversely affect our tenants’ financial condition, the profitability of our properties, and our access to the capital markets and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. During the ongoing pandemic, U.S. federal, state, and local governments have continued to mandate or recommend various actions to reduce or prevent the spread of COVID-19 which continues to directly impact many of our tenants, and in particular those whose businesses may be considered non-essential.  Grocery stores, which anchor over 80% of our operating centers, have generally been able to continue operating and serving their customers. However, non-essential businesses such as dine-in restaurants, fitness facilities and movie theaters in many states continue to experience significant declines in customer traffic when compared to previous years, or have temporarily closed their locations (in some cases multiple times) in response to governmental orders or voluntary efforts to support social distancing. Due to the pandemic, certain tenants have requested rent concessions or have sought to renegotiate future rents based on changes to the economic environment.  Other tenants have chosen not to reopen or honor the terms of their existing lease agreements.  In addition, moratoria and other temporary legal restrictions in certain states on our ability to bring legal action to enforce our leases have impacted our ability to collect rent and may continue to do so into 2021. New leasing activity has declined and is expected to remain at lower levels than pre-pandemic into 2021 as businesses delay executing leases amidst the immediate and uncertain future economic impacts of the pandemic. This, coupled with tenant failures, may result in decreased demand for retail space in our centers, which could result in downward pressure on rents.  Additionally, due to delays in construction of tenant improvements due to the impacts of the pandemic, it may take longer before new tenants are able to open and commence rent payments. The pandemic has adversely impacted our ability to start or complete tenant buildouts, new ground up development and redevelopment of existing properties.  The pandemic has also impacted our ability to timely source materials for construction and caused labor shortages, which have impacted our ability to complete construction projects on anticipated schedules.  New or extended government orders to combat the further spread of the virus could result in similar impacts to our development and redevelopment projects and supply chain, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. The full impacts of the pandemic on our future results of operations and overall financial performance remain uncertain.  While the vast majority of our lease income is derived from contractual rent payments, the ability of certain of our tenants to meet their lease obligations have been negatively impacted by the disruptions and uncertainties of the pandemic. Our tenants’ ability to respond to these disruptions and uncertainties, including adjusting to governmental orders and changes in their customers’ shopping habits and behaviors, will impact their businesses’ ability to survive, and ultimately, their ability to comply with their lease obligations.  The risk of diminished sales and future closures exists so long as the virus remains active and continues to spread. Ultimately, t he duration and severity of the health crisis in the United States and the speed at which the country, states and localities are able to safely reopen and remain open, will continue to materially impact the overall economy, our retail tenants, and therefore our results of operations , financial condition and cash flows. Until the virus is contained or eradicated, or effective and reliable treatments and/or vaccines are widely available and accepted by the public, commerce and employment may not return to pre-pandemic levels and we may experience material reductions in our cash flows, NOI and financial performance compared to pre-pandemic periods. 8 Risk Factors Related to Operating Retail-Based Shopping Centers Economic and market conditions may adversely affect the retail industry and consequently reduce our revenues and cash flow, and increase our operating expenses. Our properties are leased primarily to retail tenants from whom we derive most of our revenue in the form of base rent, expense recoveries and other income.  Therefore, our performance and operating results are directly linked to the economic and market conditions occurring in the retail industry.  We are subject to the risks that, upon expiration, leases for space in our properties are not renewed by existing tenants, vacant space is not leased to new tenants, and/or tenants demand modified lease terms, including costs for renovations or concessions.  Moreover, pandemics, such as the pandemic, may exacerbate the effects of these risks.  The economic and market conditions potentially affecting the retail industry and our properties specifically include the following: To the extent that any or a combination of these conditions occur they are likely to impact the retail industry, our retail tenants, the demand and market rents for retail space, the percent leased levels of our properties, our ability to sell, acquire or develop properties, our operating results and our cash available for distributions to stock and unit holders. Shifts in retail trends, sales, and delivery methods between brick and mortar stores, e-commerce, home delivery, and curbside pick-up may adversely impact our revenues and cash flows. Retailers are increasingly impacted by e-commerce and changes in customer buying habits, including the delivery or curbside pick-up of items ordered online.  The pandemic has likely accelerated these trends and their potential impacts.  Retailers are considering these e-commerce trends when making decisions regarding their bricks and mortar stores and how they will compete and innovate in a rapidly changing retail environment.  Many retailers in our shopping centers provide services or sell goods, which have historically been less likely to be purchased online; however, the continuing increase in e-commerce sales in all retail categories may cause retailers to adjust the size or number of their retail locations in the future or close stores.  Our grocer tenants are incorporating e-commerce concepts through home delivery and curbside pick-up, which could reduce foot traffic at our centers.  In certain higher-income markets, foot traffic at our centers may be impacted more meaningfully by these alternative delivery methods if consumers are willing to pay premiums for such services.  Changes in shopping trends as a result of the growth in e-commerce may also impact the profitability of retailers that do not adapt to changes in market conditions, including their financial condition and ability to pay rent.  This shift may adversely impact our percent leased and rental rates, which would impact our results of operations and cash flows. 9 Changing economic and retail market conditions in geographic areas where our properties are concentrated may reduce our revenues and cash flow. Economic conditions in markets where our properties are concentrated can greatly influence our financial performance.  During the year ended December 31, 2020, our properties in California, Florida, Texas, New York and Georgia accounted for 27.2%, 22.1%, 7.5%, 5.2%, and 5.1% respectively, of our NOI from Consolidated Properties plus our Pro-rata share from Unconsolidated Properties.  Our revenues and cash flow may be adversely affected by this geographic concentration if market conditions, such as supply of or demand for retail space, deteriorate more significantly in these states compared to other geographic areas.  For example, with respect to the pandemic, California has imposed very stringent restrictions on re-opening and has implemented stringent eviction moratoria, making it more difficult in certain circumstances to collect rent and enforce our leases.  Additionally, there is a risk that many businesses and residents in major metropolitan cities may desire to relocate to different states or suburban markets as a result of the pandemic, following the impact of state regulations on businesses and residents coupled with the shift to remote work. Our success depends on the continued presence and success of our “anchor” tenants. “Anchor Tenants” (tenants occupying 10,000 square feet or more) operate large stores in our shopping centers, pay a significant portion of the total rent at a property and contribute to the success of other tenants by attracting shoppers to the property.  Our net income and cash flow may be adversely affected by the loss of revenues and incurrence of additional costs in the event a significant Anchor Tenant: Some anchors have the right to vacate their space and may prevent us from re-tenanting by continuing to comply and pay rent in accordance with their lease agreement.  Vacated anchor space, including space that may be owned by the anchor (as discussed below), can reduce rental revenues generated by the shopping center in other spaces because of the loss of the departed anchor's customer drawing power.  In addition, if a significant tenant vacates a property, co-tenancy clauses in select lease contracts may allow other tenants to modify or terminate their rent or lease obligations.  Co-tenancy clauses have several variants: they may allow a tenant to postpone a store opening if certain other tenants fail to open their stores; they may allow a tenant to close its store prior to lease expiration if another tenant closes its store prior to lease expiration; or more commonly, they may allow a tenant to pay reduced levels of rent until a certain number of tenants open their stores within the same shopping center. Additionally, some of our shopping centers are anchored by retailers who own their space whose location is within or immediately adjacent to our shopping center (“shadow anchors”).  In those cases, the shadow anchors appear to the consumer as a retail tenant of the shopping center and, as a result, attract additional consumer traffic to the center.  In the event that a shadow anchor were to close, it could negatively impact our center as consumer traffic would likely be reduced. A significant percentage of our revenues are derived from smaller “shop space” tenants and our net income may be adversely impacted if our smaller shop tenants are not successful. At December 31, 2020, tenants occupying less than 10,000 square feet (“Shop Space Tenants”) represent approximately 35.6% of our GLA, with approximately 14.3% of those considered local tenants.  These tenants may be more vulnerable to negative economic conditions, including the impacts from pandemics, as they may have more limited resources and access to capital than Anchor Tenants.  Shop Space Tenants may be facing reduced sales as a result of an increase in competition including from e-commerce retailers.  The types of Shop Space Tenants vary from retail shops and restaurants to service providers.  If we are unable to attract the right type or mix of Shop Space Tenants into our centers, our revenues and cash flow may be adversely impacted. During times of economic downturns or uncertainties, including during pandemics such as COVID-19, some tenants may suffer disproportionally greater impacts and be at greater risk of default on their lease obligations or request lease concessions from us.  If we are unable to attract the right type or mix of low or non-credit tenants into our centers, our revenues and cash flow may be adversely impacted. 10 We may be unable to collect balances due from tenants in bankruptcy. Although lease income is supported by long-term lease contracts, tenants who file for bankruptcy have the legal right to reject any or all of their leases and close related stores.  Any unsecured claim we hold against a bankrupt tenant for unpaid rent may be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims.  As a result, it is likely that we would recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims we hold.  Moreover, in the year ended December 31, 2020, we saw meaningfully higher levels of tenant bankruptcies than in recent years as a result of the pandemic, and we expect this trend to continue into at least the first half of 2021.  Additionally, we may incur significant expense to recover our claim and to re-lease the vacated space. In the event that a tenant with a significant number of leases in our shopping centers files for bankruptcy and rejects its leases, we may experience a significant reduction in our revenues and may not be able to collect all pre-petition amounts owed by the bankrupt tenant. Many of our costs and expenses associated with operating our properties may remain constant or increase, even if our lease income decreases. Certain costs and expenses associated with our operating our properties, such as real estate taxes, insurance, utilities and common area expenses, generally do not decrease in the event of reduced occupancy or rental rates, non-payment of rents by tenants, general economic downturns, pandemics or other similar circumstances. In fact, in some cases, such as real estate taxes and insurance, they may actually increase despite such events. As such, we may not be able to lower the operating expenses of our properties sufficiently to fully offset such circumstances, and may not be able to fully recoup these costs from our tenants. In such cases, our cash flows, operating results and financial performance may be adversely impacted. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire, safety and other regulations may have a negative effect on us. All of our properties are required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”), which generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. Compliance with ADA requirements may require removal of access barriers, and noncompliance may result in imposition of fines by the U.S. government or an award of damages to private litigants, or both. While the tenants to whom we lease space in our properties are obligated by law to comply with the ADA provisions, and typically under tenant leases are obligated to cover costs associated with compliance, if required changes involve greater expenditures than anticipated, or if the changes must be made on a more accelerated basis than anticipated, the ability of these tenants to cover costs may be adversely affected. In addition, we are required to operate the properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental entities and become applicable to the properties. Costs to be in compliance with the ADA or any other building regulations could be material and have a negative impact on our results of operations. Risk Factors Related to Real Estate Investments Our real estate assets may decline in value and be subject to impairment losses which may reduce our net income. Our real estate properties are carried at cost unless circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable.  We evaluate whether there are any indicators, including property operating performance and general market conditions, such that the value of the real estate properties (including any related tangible or intangible assets or liabilities, including goodwill) may not be recoverable.  Through the evaluation, we compare the current carrying value of the asset to the estimated undiscounted cash flows that are directly associated with the use and ultimate disposition of the asset.  Our estimated cash flows are based on several key assumptions, including rental rates, costs of tenant improvements, leasing commissions, anticipated holding periods, and assumptions regarding the residual value upon disposition, including the exit capitalization rate.  These key assumptions are subjective in nature and may differ materially from actual results.  Changes in our disposition strategy or changes in the marketplace may alter the holding period of an asset or asset group, which may result in an impairment loss and such loss may be material to the Company's financial condition or operating performance.  To the extent that the carrying value of the asset exceeds the estimated undiscounted cash flows, an impairment loss is recognized equal to the excess of carrying value over fair value. The fair value of real estate assets is subjective and is determined through the use of comparable sales information and other market data if available, or through use of an income approach such as the direct capitalization method or the discounted cash flow approach.  Such cash flow projections take into account expected future operating income, trends and prospects, as well as the effects of demand, competition and other relevant criteria, and therefore are subject to management judgment.  The impacts of the pandemic to future income, trends and prospects is uncertain and continues to evolve, therefore any assumptions impacting real estate values may be subject to change in the future, which may impact the determination of fair value.  In estimating the fair value of undeveloped land, we generally use market data and comparable sales information. These subjective assessments have a direct impact on our net income because recording an impairment charge results in an immediate negative adjustment to net income, which may be material.  There can be no assurance that we will not record impairment charges in the future related to our assets. 11 We face risks associated with development, redevelopment and expansion of properties. We actively pursue opportunities for new retail development and existing property redevelopment or expansion.  Development and redevelopment activities require various government and other approvals for entitlements and any delay in such approvals may significantly delay development and redevelopment projects.  We may not recover our investment in our projects for which approvals are not received, and delays may adversely impact our expected returns.  Additionally, changes in political elections and policies may impact our ability to obtain favorable land use and zoning for in-process and future developments and redevelopment projects.  We are subject to other risks associated with these activities, including the following: We face risks associated with the development of mixed-use commercial properties. We have expanded our investment focus to include a limited number of more complex acquisitions and mixed-use development and redevelopment projects in dense urban locations, which pose unique risks to our return on investment.  Mixed-use projects refer to real estate projects that, in addition to retail space, may also include space for residential, office, hotel or other commercial purposes.  We have less experience in developing and managing non-retail real estate than we do retail real estate.  As a result, if a development or redevelopment project includes a non-retail use, we may seek to develop that component ourselves, sell the rights to that component to a third-party developer, or partner with a developer. In addition, redevelopment of existing shopping centers into mixed-use projects generally includes tenant vacancies before and during the redevelopment, which could result in volatility in NOI. 12 We face risks associated with the acquisition of properties. Our investment strategy includes investing in high-quality shopping centers that are leased to market-leading grocers, category-leading anchors, specialty retailers, or restaurants located in areas with high barriers to entry and above average household incomes and population densities.  The acquisition of properties and/or real estate entities entails risks that include, but are not limited to, the following, any of which may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows: We may be unable to sell properties when desired because of market conditions. Our properties, including their related tangible and intangible assets, represent the majority of our total consolidated assets and they may not be readily convertible to cash.  Moreover, pandemics such as COVID-19 may impact our ability to sell properties on our preferred timing and at prices and returns we deem acceptable.  As a result, our ability to sell one or more of our properties, including properties held in joint ventures, in response to changes in economic, industry, or other conditions may be limited.  The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability and terms of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand for space, that are beyond our control.  There may be less demand for lower quality properties that we have identified for ultimate disposition in markets with uncertain economic or retail environments, and where buyers are more reliant on the availability of third party mortgage financing.  If we want to sell a property, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to dispose of it in the desired time period or at all or that the sales price of a property will be attractive at the relevant time or even exceed the carrying value of our investment. Changes in tax laws could impact our acquisition or disposition of real estate. Certain properties we own have a low tax basis, which may result in a taxable gain on sale.  We intend to utilize Internal Revenue Code Section 1031 like-kind exchanges to mitigate taxable income; however, there can be no assurance that we will identify properties that meet our investment objectives for acquisitions or that changes to the tax laws do not eliminate or significantly change 1031 exchanges.  In the event that we do not utilize 1031 exchanges, we may be required to distribute the gain proceeds to shareholders or pay income tax, which may reduce our cash flow available to fund our commitments. Risk Factors Related to the Environment Affecting Our Properties Climate change may adversely impact our properties directly, and may lead to additional compliance obligations and costs as well as additional taxes and fees. We cannot reliably predict the extent, rate, or impact of climate change.  To the extent climate change causes adverse changes in weather patterns, our properties in certain markets, especially those nearer to the coasts, may experience increases in storm intensity and rising sea‑levels.  Further, population migration may occur in response to these or other factors and negatively impact our centers. Climate and other environmental changes may result in volatile or decreased demand for retail space at certain of our properties or, in extreme cases, our inability to operate certain properties at all.  Climate change may also have indirect effects on our business by increasing the cost of insurance, or making insurance unavailable.  Moreover, while the federal government has not yet enacted comprehensive legislation to address climate change, certain states in which we own and operate shopping centers, including California and New York, have done so.  Compliance with these and future new laws or regulations related to climate change may require us to make improvements to our existing properties, resulting in increased capital expenditures, or pay additional taxes and fees assessed on us or our properties.  Although we strive to identify, analyze, and respond to the risk and opportunities that climate change presents, at this time, there can be no assurance that climate change will not have an adverse effect on the value of our properties and our financial performance. 13 Geographic concentration of our properties makes our business more vulnerable to natural disasters, severe weather conditions and climate change. A significant number of our properties are located in areas that are susceptible to earthquakes, tropical storms, hurricanes, tornadoes, wildfires, sea-level rise due to climate change, and other natural disasters.  At December 31, 2020, 22% of the GLA of our portfolio is located in the state of California, including a number of properties in the San Francisco Bay and Los Angeles areas.  Additionally, 23% and 8% of the GLA of our portfolio is located in the states of Florida and Texas, respectively.  Insurance costs for properties in these areas have increased, and recent intense weather conditions may cause property insurance premiums to increase significantly in the future.  We recognize that the frequency and / or intensity of extreme weather events, sea-level rise, and other climatic changes may continue to increase, and as a result, our exposure to these events may increase.  These weather conditions may disrupt our business and the business of our tenants, which may affect the ability of some tenants to pay rent and may reduce the willingness of tenants or residents to remain in or move to these affected areas.  Therefore, as a result of the geographic concentration of our properties, we face risks, including disruptions to our business and the businesses of our tenants and higher costs, such as uninsured property losses, higher insurance premiums, and potential additional regulatory requirements by government agencies in response to perceived risks. Costs of environmental remediation may impact our financial performance and reduce our cash flow. Under various federal, state, and local laws, an owner or manager of real property may be liable for the costs to assess and remediate the presence of hazardous substances on the property, which in our case generally arise from former dry cleaners, gas stations, asbestos usage, and historic land use practices.  These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous substances.  The presence of, or the failure to properly address the presence of, hazardous substances may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or borrow using the property as collateral.  We can provide no assurance that we are aware of all potential environmental liabilities or their ultimate cost to address; that our properties will not be affected by tenants or nearby properties or other unrelated third parties; and that future uses or conditions, or changes in environmental laws and regulations, or their interpretation, will not result in additional material environmental liabilities to us. Risk Factors Related to Corporate Matters An uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the insurance coverage on our properties may subject us to loss of capital and revenue on those properties. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, terrorism, business interruption, and environmental insurance for our properties with policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties.  Some types of losses, such as losses from named windstorms, earthquakes, terrorism, or wars may have more limited coverage, or in some cases, can be excluded from insurance coverage.  In addition, it is possible that the availability of insurance coverage in certain areas may decrease in the future, and the cost to procure such insurance may increase due to factors beyond our control.  We may reduce the insurance we procure as a result of the foregoing or other factors.  While we believe our coverage is appropriate and adequate to cover our insurable risks, should a loss occur at any of our properties that is in excess of the property or casualty insurance limits of our policies, we may lose part or all of our invested capital and revenues from such property, which may have a material adverse impact on our operating results, financial condition, and our ability to make distributions to stock and unit holders. Terrorist activities or violence occurring at our properties also may directly affect the value of our properties through damage, destruction or loss.  Insurance for such acts may be unavailable or cost more resulting in an increase to our operating expenses and adversely affect our results of operations.  To the extent that our tenants are affected by such attacks and threats of attacks, their businesses may be adversely affected, including their ability to continue to meet obligations under their existing leases. Failure to attract and retain key personnel may adversely affect our business and operations. The success of our business depends, in part, on the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees, and our ability to attract, retain and motivate talented employees may significantly impact our future performance.  Competition for these individuals is intense, and we cannot be assured that we will retain all of our executive management team and other key employees or that we will be able to attract and retain other highly qualified individuals for these positions in the future.  Losing any one or more of these persons may have an adverse effect on us. 14 The unauthorized access, use, theft or destruction of tenant or employee personal, financial or other data or of Regency’s proprietary or confidential information stored in our information systems or by third parties on our behalf could impact our reputation and brand and expose us to potential liability and loss of revenues. Many of our information technology systems (including those we use for administration, accounting, and communications, as well as the systems of our co-investment partners and other third-party business partners and service providers, whether cloud-based or hosted in proprietary servers) contain personal, financial or other information that is entrusted to us by our tenants and employees.  Many of our information technology systems also contain our proprietary information and other confidential information related to our business.  We are frequently subject to attempts to compromise our information technology systems.  To the extent we or a third party were to experience a material breach of our or such third party’s information technology systems that result in the unauthorized access, theft, use, destruction or other compromises of tenants’ or employees' data or our confidential information stored in such systems, including through cyber-attacks or other external or internal methods, such a breach may damage our reputation and cause us to lose tenants and revenues, incur third party claims and cause disruption to our business and plans.  Such security breaches also could result in a violation of applicable U.S. privacy and other laws, and subject us to private consumer, business partner, or securities litigation and governmental investigations and proceedings, any of which could result in our exposure to material civil or criminal liability, and we may not be able to recover these expenses from our service providers, responsible parties, or insurance carriers.  Despite the ongoing significant investments in technology and training we make in cybersecurity, we can provide no assurance that we will avoid or prevent such breaches or attacks. Additionally, federal, state and local authorities continue to develop laws to address data privacy protection.  Monitoring such changes, and taking steps to comply, involves significant costs and effort by management, which may adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. Despite the implementation of security measures for our disaster recovery and business continuity plans, our systems are vulnerable to damages from multiple sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war, and telecommunication failure.  Any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business and cause us to incur additional costs to remedy such damages. Risk Factors Related to Our Partnerships and Joint Ventures We do not have voting control over all of the properties owned in our co-investment partnerships and joint ventures, so we are unable to ensure that our objectives will be pursued. We have invested substantial capital as a partner in a number of partnerships and joint ventures to acquire, own, lease, develop or redevelop properties.  These activities are subject to the same risks as our investments in our wholly-owned properties.  These investments, and other future similar investments may involve risks that would not be present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners or other owners might become bankrupt, suffer a deterioration in their creditworthiness, or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions.  Partners or other owners may have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our own business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. These investments, and other future similar investments, also have the potential risk of creating impasses on decisions, such as a sale or financing, because neither we nor our partner or other owner has full control over the partnership or joint venture.  Disputes between us and partners or other owners might result in litigation or arbitration that may increase our expenses and prevent management from focusing their time and efforts on our business.  Consequently, actions by, or disputes with, partners or other owners might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. In addition, we risk the possibility of being liable for the actions of our partners or other owners.  These factors may limit the return that we receive from such investments or cause our cash flows to be lower than our estimates. The termination of our partnerships may adversely affect our cash flow, operating results, and our ability to make distributions to stock and unit holders. If partnerships owning a significant number of properties were dissolved for any reason, we could lose the asset, property management, leasing and construction management fees from these partnerships as well as the operating income of the properties, which may adversely affect our operating results and our cash available for distribution to stock and unit holders.  Certain of our partnership operating agreements provide either member the ability to elect buy/sell clauses.  The election of these dissolution provisions could require us to invest additional capital to acquire the partners’ interest or to sell our share of the property thereby losing the operating income and cash flow. 15 Risk Factors Related to Funding Strategies and Capital Structure Our ability to sell properties and fund acquisitions and developments may be adversely impacted by higher market capitalization rates and lower NOI at our properties which may dilute earnings. As part of our funding strategy, we sell operating properties that no longer meet our investment standards or those with a limited future growth profile.  These sales proceeds are used to fund debt repayment, acquisition of operating properties, and the construction of new developments and redevelopments.  An increase in market capitalization rates or a decline in NOI may cause a reduction in the value of centers identified for sale, which would have an adverse impact on the amount of cash generated.  Additionally, the sale of properties resulting in significant tax gains may require higher distributions to our stockholders or payment of additional income taxes in order to maintain our REIT status. We depend on external sources of capital, which may not be available in the future on favorable terms or at all. To qualify as a REIT, the Parent Company must, among other things, distribute to its stockholders each year at least 90% of its REIT taxable income (excluding any net capital gains).  Because of these distribution requirements, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs with income from operations.  In such instances, we would rely on third-party sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all.  Our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings.  Our access to debt depends on our credit rating, the willingness of creditors to lend to us and conditions in the capital markets.  In addition to finding creditors willing to lend to us, we are dependent upon our joint venture partners to contribute their pro rata share of any amount needed to repay or refinance existing debt when lenders reduce the amount of debt our partnerships and joint ventures are eligible to refinance. In addition, our existing debt arrangements also impose covenants that limit our flexibility in obtaining other financing.  Additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of stockholders' interests and additional debt financing may substantially increase our degree of leverage. Without access to external sources of capital, we would be required to pay outstanding debt with our operating cash flows and proceeds from property sales.  Our operating cash flows may not be sufficient to pay our outstanding debt as it comes due and real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly at a return we believe is appropriate.  If we are required to deleverage our business with operating cash flows and proceeds from property sales, we may be forced to reduce the amount of, or eliminate altogether, our distributions to stock and unit holders or refrain from making investments in our business. Our debt financing may adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our indebtedness will depend primarily on our future performance, which to a certain extent is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. In addition, we do not expect to generate sufficient operating cash flow to make balloon principal payments on our debt when due.  If we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, we may be forced (i) to dispose of properties, which might result in losses, or (ii) to obtain financing at unfavorable terms, either of which may reduce the cash flow available for distributions to stock and unit holders.  If we cannot make required mortgage payments, the mortgagee may foreclose on the property securing the mortgage. Covenants in our debt agreements may restrict our operating activities and adversely affect our financial condition. Our unsecured notes, unsecured term loans, and unsecured line of credit (the “Line”) contain customary covenants, including compliance with financial ratios, such as ratio of indebtedness to total asset value and fixed charge coverage ratio.  These covenants may limit our operational flexibility and our investment activities.  Moreover, if we breach any of the covenants in our debt agreements, and do not cure the breach within the applicable cure period, our lenders may require us to repay the debt immediately, even in the absence of a payment default.  Many of our debt arrangements, including our unsecured notes, unsecured term loan, and unsecured line of credit are cross-defaulted, which means that the lenders under those debt arrangements can require immediate repayment of their debt if we breach and fail to cure a default under certain of our other material debt obligations.  As a result, any default under our debt covenants may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, our results of operations, our ability to meet our obligations, and the market value of our stock. 16 Increases in interest rates would cause our borrowing costs to rise and negatively impact our results of operations. Although a significant amount of our outstanding debt has fixed interest rates, we do borrow funds at variable interest rates under our credit facility, term loan, and certain secured borrowings.  As of December 31, 2020, less than 1.0% of our outstanding debt was variable rate debt not hedged to fixed rate debt.  Increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense on any variable rate debt to the extent we have not hedged our exposure to changes in interest rates.  In addition, increases in interest rates will affect the terms under which we refinance our existing debt as it matures, to the extent we have not hedged our exposure to changes in interest rates.  This would reduce our future earnings and cash flows, which may adversely affect our ability to service our debt and meet our other obligations and also may reduce the amount we are able to distribute to our stock and unit holders. Hedging activity may expose us to risks, including the risks that a counterparty will not perform and that the hedge will not yield the economic benefits we anticipate, which may adversely affect us. We manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements.  These arrangements involve risk, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, and that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes.  There can be no assurance that our hedging arrangements will qualify for hedge accounting or that our hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations.  Should we desire to terminate a hedging arrangement, there may be significant costs and cash requirements involved to fulfill our obligations under the hedging arrangement.  In addition, failure to effectively hedge against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. The interest rates on our Unsecured Credit facilities as well as on our variable rate mortgages and interest rate swaps might change based on changes to the method in which LIBOR or its replacement rate is determined. In July 2017, the Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) that regulates the London Inter-bank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) announced it intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021.  As a result, the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York organized the Alternative Reference Rates Committee (“ARRC”) which identified the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”) as its preferred alternative to USD-LIBOR in derivatives and other financial contracts.  We are not able to predict when LIBOR will cease to be available or when there will be sufficient liquidity in the SOFR markets.  Any changes adopted by FCA or other governing bodies in the method used for determining LIBOR may result in a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in reported LIBOR.  If that were to occur, our interest payments could change.  In addition, uncertainty about the extent and manner of future changes may result in interest rates and/or payments that are higher or lower than if LIBOR were to remain available in its current form. We have contracts that are indexed to LIBOR, including our $1.25 billion unsecured revolving credit facility and fifteen mortgages within our consolidated and unconsolidated portfolios totaling $225.5 million on a Pro-rata basis, as well as interest rate swaps to fix these variable cash flows with notional amounts totaling $177.0 million on a Pro-rata basis.  These LIBOR based instruments mature between 2020 and 2028.  We are monitoring and evaluating the related risks, which include interest on loans or amounts received and paid on derivative instruments.  These risks arise in connection with transitioning contracts to a new alternative rate, including any resulting value transfer that may occur.  The value of loans, securities, or derivative instruments tied to LIBOR could also be impacted if LIBOR is limited or discontinued.  For some instruments, the method of transitioning to an alternative rate may be challenging, as they may require negotiation with the respective counterparty. If a contract is not transitioned to an alternative rate and LIBOR is discontinued, the impact is likely to vary by contract.  If LIBOR is discontinued or if the methods of calculating LIBOR change from their current form, interest rates on our current or future indebtedness and related interest rate swaps may be adversely affected. While we expect LIBOR to be available in substantially its current form through June 2023, it is possible that LIBOR will become nonrepresentative prior to that point.  This could result, for example, if sufficient banks decline to make submissions to the LIBOR administrator.  In that case, the risks associated with the transition to an alternative reference rate will be accelerated and magnified. 17 Risk Factors Related to t he Market Price for Our Securities Changes in economic and market conditions may adversely affect the market price of our securities. The market price of our debt and equity securities may fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, many of which are out of our control, including: These factors may cause the market price of our securities to decline, regardless of our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects.  It is impossible to ensure that the market price of our securities, including our common stock, will not fall in the future.  A decrease in the market price of our common stock may reduce our ability to raise additional equity in the public markets.  Selling common stock at a decreased market price would have a dilutive impact on existing stockholders. There is no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends at historical rates. Our ability to continue to pay dividends at historical rates or to increase our dividend rate will depend on a number of factors, including, among others, the following: If we do not maintain or periodically increase the dividend on our common stock, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and other securities. 18 Risk Factors Relating to the Company’s Qualification as a REIT If the Parent Company fails to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, it would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. We believe that the Parent Company qualifies for taxation as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, and we plan to operate so that we can continue to meet the requirements for taxation as a REIT.  If the Parent Company continues to qualify as a REIT, it generally will not be subject to federal income tax on income that we distribute to our stockholders.  Many REIT requirements, however, are highly technical and complex.  The determination that the Parent Company is a REIT requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances, some of which may not be totally within our control and some of which involve questions of interpretation. For example, to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income must come from specific passive sources, like rent, that are itemized in the REIT tax laws.  There can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) or a court would agree with the positions we have taken in interpreting the REIT requirements.  We are also required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gains.  We will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our undistributed taxable income and net capital gain and to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on any amount by which distributions we pay with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years.  The fact that we hold many of our assets through co-investment partnerships and their subsidiaries further complicates the application of the REIT requirements.  Furthermore, Congress and the IRS might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings, that make it more difficult for the Parent Company to remain qualified as a REIT. Also, unless the IRS granted relief under certain statutory provisions, the Parent Company would remain disqualified as a REIT for four years following the year it first failed to qualify.  If the Parent Company failed to qualify as a REIT (currently and/or with respect to any tax years for which the statute of limitations has not expired), we would have to pay significant income taxes, reducing cash available to pay dividends, which would likely have a significant adverse effect on the value of our securities. In addition, we would no longer be required to pay any dividends to stockholders in order to maintain our REIT status.  Although we believe that the Parent Company qualifies as a REIT, we cannot be assured that the Parent Company will continue to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT for tax purposes. Even if the Parent Company qualifies as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay certain federal, state, and local taxes on our income and property.  For example, if we have net income from “prohibited transactions,” that income will be subject to a 100% tax.  In general, prohibited transactions include sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business.  The determination as to whether a particular sale is a prohibited transaction depends on the facts and circumstances related to that sale.  While we have undertaken a significant number of asset sales in recent years, we do not believe that those sales should be considered prohibited transactions, but there can be no assurance that the IRS would not contend otherwise. New legislation, as well as new regulations, administrative interpretations, or court decisions may be introduced, enacted, or promulgated from time to time, that may change the tax laws or interpretations of the tax laws regarding qualification as a REIT, or the federal income tax consequences of that qualification, in a manner that is adverse to our stockholders. Dividends paid by REITs generally do not qualify for reduced tax rates. Subject to limited exceptions, dividends paid by REITs (other than distributions designated as capital gain dividends, qualified dividends or returns of capital) are not eligible for reduced rates for qualified dividends paid by “C” corporations and are taxable at ordinary income tax rates.  The more favorable tax rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends may cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which may adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including the shares of our capital stock. Certain foreign stockholders may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on gain recognized on a disposition of our common stock if we do not qualify as a “domestically controlled” REIT. A foreign person disposing of a U.S. real property interest, including shares of a U.S. corporation whose assets consist principally of U.S. real property interests is generally subject to U.S. federal income tax on any gain recognized on the disposition.  This tax does not apply, however, to the disposition of stock in a REIT if the REIT is “domestically controlled.”  In general, we will be a domestically controlled REIT if at all times during the five-year period ending on the applicable stockholder’s disposition of our stock, less than 50% in value of our stock was held directly or indirectly by non-U.S. persons.  If we were to fail to qualify as a domestically controlled REIT, gain recognized by a foreign stockholder on a disposition of our common stock would be subject to U.S. federal income tax unless our common stock was traded on an established securities market and the foreign stockholder did not at any time during a specified testing period directly or indirectly own more than 10% of our outstanding common stock. 19 Legislative or other actions affecting REITs may have a negative effect on us. The rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Department of the Treasury.  Changes to the tax laws, with or without retroactive application, may adversely affect Regency or our investors.  We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect Regency or our investors.  New legislation, Treasury Regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification, or the federal income tax consequences of an investment in us.  There is also a risk that REIT status may be adversely impacted by a change in tax or other laws.  Also, the law relating to the tax treatment of other entities, or an investment in other entities, may change, making an investment in such other entities more attractive relative to an investment in a REIT. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities. The REIT provisions of the Code limit our ability to hedge our liabilities.  Generally, income from a hedging transaction that constitutes “qualifying income” for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests applicable to REITs, does not constitute “gross income” for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests, provided that we properly identify the hedging transaction pursuant to the applicable sections of the Code and Treasury Regulations.  To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, or fail to make the proper tax identifications, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both gross income tests.  As a result of these rules, we may need to limit our use of otherwise advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a taxable REIT subsidiary (“TRS”). Risks Related to the Company’s Common Stock Restrictions on the ownership of the Parent Company’s capital stock to preserve its REIT status may delay or prevent a change in control. Ownership of more than 7% by value of our outstanding capital stock is prohibited, with certain exceptions, by the Parent Company's articles of incorporation, for the purpose of maintaining its qualification as a REIT.  This 7% limitation may discourage a change in control and may also (i) deter tender offers for our capital stock, which offers may be attractive to our stockholders, or (ii) limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their capital stock that might otherwise exist if an investor attempted to assemble a block in excess of 7% of our outstanding capital stock or to affect a change in control. The issuance of the Parent Company's capital stock may delay or prevent a change in control. The Parent Company's articles of incorporation authorize our Board of Directors to issue up to 30,000,000 shares of preferred stock and 10,000,000 shares of special common stock and to establish the preferences and rights of any shares issued. The issuance of preferred stock or special common stock may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. The provisions of the Florida Business Corporation Act regarding affiliated transactions may also deter potential acquisitions by preventing the acquiring party from consummating a merger or other extraordinary corporate transaction without the approval of our disinterested stockholders. Ownership in the Parent Company may be diluted in the future. In the future, a stockholder’s percentage ownership in the Company may be diluted because of equity issuances for acquisitions, capital market transactions or other corporate purposes, including equity awards we will grant to our directors, officers and employees. In the past we have issued equity in the secondary market and may do so again in the future, depending on the price of our stock and other factors. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors generally may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. For example, we could grant the holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

COVID-19 Pandemic For a discussion of the COVID-19 pandemic, refer to Part I Item 1. Business. Executing on our Strategy During the year ended December 31, 2020, we had Net income attributable to common stockholders of $44.9 million, which includes the impacts of a $132.1 million Goodwill impairment charge and $117.0 million of uncollectible Lease income, as compared to Net income attributable to common stockholders of $239.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2019. During the year ended December 31, 2020: We continued our development and redevelopment of high quality shopping centers in a targeted manner amidst the pandemic, although many in process projects have stopped or slowed while we evaluate current market conditions and assess the feasibility of these projects.  As of December 31, 2020, we have a total of 14 properties in process of development or redevelopment with total estimated Pro-rata project costs of $319.3 million as compared to 22 properties and $350.8 million at December 31, 2019. We maintained a conservative balance sheet providing liquidity and financial flexibility to respond to these uncertain economic times and to cost effectively fund investment commitments, opportunities, and debt maturities: 40 Leasing Activity and Significant Tenants We believe our high-quality, grocery anchored shopping centers located in densely populated, desirable infill trade areas create attractive spaces for retail and service providers to operate their businesses. Pro-rata Percent Leased The following table summarizes Pro-rata percent leased of our combined Consolidated and Unconsolidated shopping center portfolio: Our percent leased in both the Anchor and Shop space categories declined during 2020 due to tenant closures and bankruptcies primarily as a result from the impacts of the pandemic.  Additionally, a number of tenants at our properties were either required or elected to temporarily close due to the pandemic.  Some of these tenants may be unable to sustain their business models in this current pandemic environment and may fail.  While the pandemic continues, we may be unable to find suitable replacement tenants for an extended period of time and the terms of the leases with replacement tenants may be less favorable to us.  As such, our percent leased could decline further in future periods, resulting in reduced Lease income from both lower base rent and recoveries from tenants for CAM, real estate taxes, and insurance costs at our centers. Pro-rata Leasing Activity The following table summarizes leasing activity, including our Pro-rata share of activity within the portfolio of our co-investment partnerships: New leasing activity has declined as many businesses delay executing leases amidst the immediate and uncertain future economic impacts from the pandemic; however, renewal leasing activity has remained consistent with 2019 levels.  New and renewal rent spreads, as compared to prior rents on these same spaces leased, remained positive at 2.2% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2020, although the spreads tightened throughout the year as compared to 5.7% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2019.  With 41 the average annual base rent of all shop space leases due to expire during the next 12 months of $33.37 PSF, there is a possibility of negative rent spreads occurring as we execute new or renewal lease deals, considering the t otal weighted average base rent on signed shop space leases during 2020 was lower at $32.87 PSF . Significant Tenants and Concentrations of Risk We seek to reduce our operating and leasing risks through geographic diversification and by avoiding dependence on any single property, market, or tenant.  Based on percentage of annualized base rent, the following table summarizes our most significant tenants, of which the top four are grocers: Bankruptcies and Credit Concerns The impact of bankruptcies may increase significantly if tenants occupying our centers are unable to withstand and recover from the disruptions caused by the pandemic, which could materially adversely impact our Lease income.  Since the pandemic began, we have seen an increase in the number of tenants filing for bankruptcy.  Due to the pandemic there has been and continues to be a greater focus on whether tenants’ businesses are considered essential or non-essential, which may directly impact the tenants’ ability to operate and generate sufficient cash flows to meet their operating expenses, including lease payments.  Continued higher unemployment levels could also negatively impact consumer spending and, along with large-scale business failures, have an adverse effect on our results from operations.  We seek to mitigate these potential impacts through tenant diversification, replacing weaker tenants with stronger operators, anchoring our centers with market leading grocery stores that drive customer traffic, and maintaining a presence in affluent suburbs and dense infill trade areas.  As of December 31, 2020, approximately 63% of Pro-rata average base rent in our portfolio is derived from tenants’ businesses classified as essential. Since the pandemic began, the Company has been closely monitoring its cash collections which significantly declined from historic levels in the initial months of the pandemic, most notably from tenants whose businesses are classified as non-essential.  The pandemic has continued to result in certain tenants requesting concessions from rent obligations, including deferrals, abatements and requests to negotiate future rents, while some tenants have been unable to reopen or have not honored the terms of their existing lease agreements.  The Company has entered into approximately 1,600 agreements, representing $40.8 million of Pro-rata base rent or 4.6% of our total annual base rent, with tenants within our consolidated real estate portfolio and our unconsolidated real estate investment partnerships, enabling them to defer a portion of their rental payments and repay them over future periods.  The Company expects to continue to work with other tenants, which may result in further rent concessions or legal actions as determined to be necessary and appropriate.  Due to the uncertainty surrounding the pandemic, there can be no assurances that all such deferred rent will ultimately be collected, or collected within the timeframes agreed upon. We closely monitor the operating performance of tenants in our shopping centers as well as those experiencing significant changes to their business models, as can be seen through reduced customer traffic in their stores.  Operators / tenants who are unable to withstand these and other business pressures, such as significant cash flow declines or debt maturities, may file for bankruptcy.  As a result of our research and findings, we may reduce new leasing, suspend leasing, or curtail allowances for construction of leasehold improvements within certain retail categories or to a specific tenant in order to reduce our risk of loss from bankruptcies and store closings. Although base rent is supported by long-term lease contracts, tenants who file bankruptcy generally have the legal right to reject any or all of their leases and close related stores.  Any unsecured claim we hold against a bankrupt tenant for unpaid rent might be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims.  As a result, it is likely that we would recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims we hold.  Additionally, we may incur significant expense to adjudicate our claim and to release the vacated space.  In the event that a tenant with a significant number of leases in our shopping centers files bankruptcy and cancels its leases, we could experience a significant reduction in our revenues.  As of December 31, 2020, tenants who are currently in bankruptcy and continue to occupy space in our shopping centers represent an aggregate of 0.4% of our annual base rent on a Pro-rata basis.  We anticipate fewer tenant bankruptcies in 2021, but it is possible they could increase depending on the length and severity of the pandemic. 42 Results from Operations Comparison of the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 : Our revenues changed as summarized in the following table: Lease income decreased $114.1 million, driven by the following contractually billable components of rent to the tenants per the lease agreements: $105.1 million decrease from recognizing additional Uncollectible lease income, consisting of $28.1 million increase in uncollectible Straight-line rent receivables and $77.0 million increase in uncollectible billable tenant receivables.  The pandemic has been most impactful to those tenants considered non-essential by governmental authorities. The current economic environment has resulted in changes in our expectations of collecting certain tenant receivables and their related future contracted rent increases previously recognized through straight-line rent. Approximately 92% of Pro-rata base rent billed for the three months ended December 31, 2020, has been collected as of February 8, 2021. $5.7 million decrease from billable Base rent, as follows: $3.2 million decrease in Above and below market rent primarily from the sale of operating properties. $1.6 million increase in Other lease income from higher lease termination fees. $1.4 million decrease in Percentage rent due to lower sales in this pandemic environment by certain tenants. $361,000 remaining net decrease driven primarily by a reduction in straight-line rent. Management, transaction and other fees decreased $3.1 million primarily from decreases in development, construction management, and property management fees from projects within our unconsolidated partnerships.  Two development projects within our unconsolidated partnerships completed during 2019, resulting in reduced development fees in 2020.  Additionally, decreases in property rent collections during this pandemic have negatively impacted our property management income earned from our unconsolidated partnerships. Changes in our operating expenses are summarized in the following table: Depreciation and amortization costs changed as follows: 43 Operating and maintenance costs remained steady even with increases in property insurance premiums as those increases were offset by decreases in common area maintenance costs during the pandemic and a decrease in lease termination expense. General and administrative expenses remained constant although there was a $10.2 million increase from less development overhead capitalized as many development and redevelopment projects were delayed due to the pandemic, offset by $8.2 million decrease in incentive compensation costs, and $2.3 million decrease in other expenses related to lower travel and conference costs amidst the pandemic. Real estate taxes changed as follows: Other operating expenses increased $4.8 million primarily attributable to a $7.9 million increase in development pursuit costs charged to expense for abandoned projects, offset by a $2.9 million decrease in state and franchise taxes. The following table presents the components of other expense (income): The $5.4 million net increase in total interest expense is primarily due to: 44 During the year ended December 31, 2020 , we recognized $132.1 million of Goodwill impairment, due to the significant market and economic impacts of the pandemic .  The market disruptions triggered evaluation of reporting unit fair values for goodwill impairment.  Of our 269 reporting units with goodwill, 87 reporting units were determined to have fair values lower than carrying value.  As such, goodwill impairment losses were recognized for the amount that the carrying amount of the reporting unit, including goodwill, exceeded its fair value, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. The $35.6 million decrease in Provision for impairment of real estate is due to: During 2020, we recognized gains of $67.5 million from the sale of ten land parcels, five operating properties, receipt of property insurance proceeds, and the re-measurement gain from the acquisition of controlling interest in a previously held equity investment.  During 2019, we sold five operating properties and six land parcels for gains totaling $24.2 million. During 2020, we incurred $21.8 million of debt extinguishment costs of which $19.4 million related to the early redemption of our unsecured notes due to mature in 2022 and a $2.4 million charge for termination of an interest rate swap on our term loan that was repaid in January 2021.  During 2019, we redeemed unsecured notes and repaid one mortgage, all prior to original maturity, resulting in $12 million of debt extinguishment costs. Our equity in income (losses) of investments in real estate partnerships changed as follows: The $26.8 million decrease in total Equity in income in investments in real estate partnerships is attributed to: 45 The following represents the remaining components that comprise net income attributable to the common stockholders and unit holders: Comparison of the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018: For a comparison of our results from operations for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, see “Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, filed with the SEC on February 18, 2020. Supplemental Earnings Information We use certain non-GAAP performance measures, in addition to certain performance metrics determined under GAAP, as we believe these measures improve the understanding of our operating results.  We believe these non-GAAP measures provide useful information to our Board of Directors, management and investors regarding certain trends relating to our financial condition and results of operations.  Our management uses these non-GAAP measures to compare our performance to that of prior periods for trend analyses, purposes of determining management incentive compensation and budgeting, forecasting and planning purposes.  We provide Pro-rata financial information because we believe it assists investors and analysts in estimating our economic interest in our consolidated and unconsolidated partnerships, when read in conjunction with our reported results under GAAP.  We believe presenting our Pro-rata share of operating results, along with other non-GAAP measures, may assist in comparing our operating results to other REITs.  We continually evaluate the usefulness, relevance, limitations, and calculation of our reported non-GAAP performance measures to determine how best to provide relevant information to the public, and thus such reported measures could change.  See “Defined Terms” in Part I, Item 1. We do not consider non-GAAP measures an alternative to financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP, rather they supplement GAAP measures by providing additional information we believe to be useful to our shareholders.  The principal limitation of these non-GAAP financial measures is they may exclude significant expense and income items that are required by GAAP to be recognized in our consolidated financial statements.  In addition, they reflect the exercise of management’s judgment about which expense and income items are excluded or included in determining these non-GAAP financial measures.  In order to compensate for these limitations, reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures we use to their most directly comparable GAAP measures are provided.  Non-GAAP financial measures should not be relied upon in evaluating our financial condition, results of operations, or future prospects. 46 Pro-rata Same Property NOI: Our Pro-rata same property NOI changed as follows: Billable Base rent decreased $3.2 million due to loss of rents from bankruptcies and other tenant move-outs which were partially offset by contractual rent increases. Recoveries from tenants decreased $1.2 million largely due to declines in percent leased stemming from bankruptcies and other tenant move-outs. Percentage rent decreased $1.5 million principally due to lower tenant sales which were impacted by lockdowns during the pandemic which affected customer traffic and tenant sales. Termination fees increased $4.3 million primarily due to strategic changes in merchandising mix and negotiated terminations for tenant failures related to COVID-19. Uncollectible lease income increased $79.0 million due to changes in collection expectations of our lease income caused by the impact of the pandemic on our tenants. Other property income decreased $1.1 million primarily due to reduced demand for paid parking during the pandemic. Real estate taxes increased $5.8 million due to changes in assessed values at properties across our portfolio. Same Property Rollforward: Our same property pool includes the following property count, Pro-rata GLA, and changes therein: 47 N areit FFO: Our reconciliation of net income attributable to common stock and unit holders to Nareit FFO is as follows: Reconciliation of Same Property NOI to Nearest GAAP Measure: Our reconciliation of Net income attributable to common stockholders to Same Property NOI, on a Pro-rata basis, is as follows: Liquidity and Capital Resources General We use cash flows generated from operating, investing, and financing activities to strengthen our balance sheet, finance our development and redevelopment projects, fund our investment activities, and maintain financial flexibility.  We continuously monitor the capital markets and evaluate our ability to issue new debt or equity, to repay maturing debt, or fund our capital commitments. Except for $200 million of private placement debt, our Parent Company has no capital commitments other than its guarantees of the commitments of our Operating Partnership.  All remaining debt is held by our Operating Partnership or by our co-investment partnerships.  The Operating Partnership is a co-issuer and a guarantor of the $200 million of outstanding debt of our Parent Company.  The Parent Company will from time to time access the capital markets for the purpose of issuing new equity and will simultaneously contribute all of the offering proceeds to the Operating Partnership in exchange for additional partnership units. As the pandemic and its related impacts continue to evolve, we have taken the following steps to ensure sufficient liquidity and financial flexibility: 48 We also continue to closely monitor and assess the capital requirements of all in process and planned developments, redevelopments, and capital expenditures, which has resulted in our delaying, phasing or curtailing certain in-process and planned development, redevelopment and capital expenditure projects.  We have no unsecured debt maturities until 2024 and a manageable level of secured mortgage maturities during 2021, including those mortgages within our joint ventures. We continually evaluate alternative financing options, and we believe we can obtain financing on reasonable terms; however, there can be no assurance that additional financing or capital will be available, or that the terms will be acceptable or advantageous to us. Based upon our available cash balance, sources of capital, our current credit ratings, the number of high quality, unencumbered properties we own, and our decisions to delay, phase or curtail projects, we believe our available capital resources are sufficient to meet our expected capital needs for at least the next 12 months. In addition to our unrestricted cash at December 31, 2020, we have the following additional sources of capital available: The declaration of dividends is determined quarterly by our Board of Directors.  On February 10, 2021, our Board of Directors declared a common stock dividend of $0.595 per share, payable on April 6, 2021, to shareholders of record as of March 15, 2021.  While future dividends will be determined at the discretion of our Board of Directors, we plan to continue paying an aggregate amount of distributions to our stock and unit holders that, at a minimum, meet the requirements to continue qualifying as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. We have historically generated sufficient cash flow from operations to fund our dividend distributions.  During the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, we generated cash flow from operations of $499.1 million and $621.3 million, respectively, and paid $403.3 million and $391.6 million in dividends to our common stock and unit holders, respectively, including the payment of the dividend we declared on December 15, 2020 and paid on January 5, 2021 of $101.4 million.  We are closely monitoring our cash collections from our tenants which significantly declined from historic levels at the start of the pandemic and resulting restrictions.  As of February 8, 2021, we experienced sequential improvement in our collection rates of Pro-rata base rent billed by quarter in 2020 as follows: Based upon our collection experience since the pandemic began, we expect our collection rates will continue to trend lower than historical pre-pandemic averages for the foreseeable future until the vaccines are fully deployed, restrictions are lifted, and the percent 49 leased in our shopping centers increases . If our cash flow from operations is insufficient to fund our current dividend level, a reduction in our cash dividend may be necessary or dividends could be paid in Regency stock, in order to remain in compliance with minimum REIT distributions. We currently have 14 development and redevelopment projects in various stages of construction, along with a pipeline of potential projects for future development or redevelopment.  As the effects of the pandemic remain uncertain, we continue to evaluate the pandemic’s impacts on the feasibility of our pipeline projects and non-essential capital expenditures, including project scope, investment, tenant use, timing and return on investment. After repaying our $265 million Term Loan and funding our dividend payment in January 2021 with cash on hand, we estimate that we will require capital during the next twelve months of approximately $353.6 million to repay maturing debt, to fund construction and related costs for committed tenant improvements and in-process development and redevelopment, and to make capital contributions to our co-investment partnerships.  If we start new developments or redevelopments, commit to new acquisitions, prepay debt prior to maturity, or repurchase shares of our common stock, our cash requirements will increase.  The combination of our $1.2 billion capacity available on our Line and no unsecured debt maturities until 2024 strengthens our financial position enabling us to fund our expected near-term operating and capital expenditures amid the uncertainty of operating cash flows during this pandemic and recovery period.  We expect to generate the necessary cash to fund our long-term capital needs from cash flow from operations, borrowings from our Line, proceeds from the sale of real estate, mortgage loan and unsecured bank financing, and when the capital markets are favorable, proceeds from the sale of equity or the issuance of new unsecured debt. We endeavor to maintain a high percentage of unencumbered assets, as measured by 89.6% of our wholly-owned real estate assets being unencumbered at December 31, 2020.  Such assets allow us to access the secured and unsecured debt markets and to maintain availability on the Line.  Our trailing twelve month Fixed charge coverage ratio, including our Pro-rata share of our partnerships, was 3.6x and 4.3x for the periods ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and our Pro-rata net debt-to-operating EBITDA re ratio on a trailing twelve month basis was 6.0x and 5.4x, respectively, for the same periods.  We expect that these ratios could worsen during 2021 as a result of potential further impacts from the ongoing pandemic. Our Line, Term Loan, and unsecured debt require that we remain in compliance with various covenants, which are described in note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  We are in compliance with these covenants at December 31, 2020, and expect to remain in compliance. Summary of Cash Flow Activity The following table summarizes net cash flows related to operating, investing, and financing activities of the Company: Net cash provided by operating activities: Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $122.2 million due to: 50 Net cash used in investing activities: Net cash used in investing activities changed by $257.1 million as follows: Significant investing activities included: During the same period in 2019, we invested $66.9 million in our real estate partnerships, including: 51 We plan to continue developing and redeveloping shopping centers for long-term investment , although in the midst of the pandemic we are re-evaluating the feasibility of all pipeline development and redevelopment projects . This evaluation may result in curtailment, delay or ph asing of some or all projects, as well as limiting capital expenditures not immediately necessary as the economic situation continues to unfold. During 2020 , we deployed capital of $180.8 million for the development, redevelopment, and improvement of our real estate properties, comprised of the following: 52 The following table summarizes our development projects in-process and completed : The following table summarizes our redevelopment projects in-process and completed: 53 Net cash used in financing activities: Net cash flows used in financing activities changed during 2020, as follows: Significant financing activities during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 include the following: 54 Contractual Obligations We have debt obligations related to our mortgage loans, unsecured notes, unsecured credit facilities, interest rate swap obligations, and lease agreements as described further below and in notes 4, 7, 9, and 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  We have shopping centers that are subject to non-cancelable long-term ground leases where a third party owns and has leased the underlying land to us to construct and/or operate a shopping center.  We also have non-cancelable operating leases pertaining to office space from which we conduct our business. The following table of Contractual Obligations summarizes our debt maturities, including our Pro-rata share of obligations within co-investment partnerships as of December 31, 2020, and excludes the following: Critical Accounting Estimates Knowledge about our accounting policies is necessary for a complete understanding of our financial statements.  The preparation of our financial statements requires that we make certain estimates that impact the balance of assets and liabilities as of a financial statement date and the reported amount of income and expenses during a financial reporting period.  These accounting estimates are based upon, but not limited to, our judgments about historical and expected future results, current market conditions, and interpretation of industry accounting standards.  They are considered to be critical because of their significance to the financial statements and the possibility that future events may differ from those judgments, or that the use of different assumptions could result in materially different estimates.  We review these estimates on a periodic basis to ensure reasonableness; however, the amounts we may ultimately realize could differ from such estimates. 55 Collectibility of Lease Income Lease income, which includes base rent, percentage rent, and recoveries from tenants for common area maintenance costs, insurance and real estate taxes are the Company's principal source of revenue.  As a result of generating this revenue, we will routinely have accounts receivable due from tenants. Lease income for operating leases with fixed payment terms is recognized on a straight-line basis over the expected term of the lease for all leases for which collectibility is considered probable at the commencement date.  At lease commencement, the Company generally expects that collectibility is probable due to the Company’s credit assessment of tenants and other creditworthiness analysis undertaken before entering into a new lease; therefore, income from most operating leases is initially recognized on a straight-line basis.  For operating leases in which collectibility of Lease income is not considered probable, Lease income is recognized on a cash basis and all previously recognized and uncollected Lease income is reversed in the period in which the Lease income is determined not to be probable of collection.  In addition to the lease-specific collectibility assessment, the Company may recognize a general reserve, as a reduction to Lease income, for its portfolio of operating lease receivables which are not expected to be fully collectible based on the Company’s historical collection experience.  Although we estimate uncollectible receivables and provide for them through charges against income, actual experience may differ from those estimates. Real Estate Investments Acquisition of Real Estate Investments Upon acquisition of real estate operating properties, the Company estimates the fair value of acquired tangible assets (consisting of land, building, building improvements and tenant improvements) and identified intangible assets and liabilities (consisting of above and below-market leases and in-place leases), assumed debt, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at the date of acquisition, based on evaluation of information and estimates available at that date.  Based on these estimates, the Company allocates the estimated fair value to the applicable assets and liabilities.  Transaction costs associated with asset acquisitions are capitalized, while such costs are expensed for business combinations in the period incurred.  Beginning in July 2017, the Company adopted Accounting Standard Update 2017-01, Business Combinations (Topic 805):  Clarifying the Definition of a Business , under which the acquisition of operating properties are generally considered asset acquisitions.  If, however, the acquisition is determined to be a business combination, any excess consideration above the fair value allocated to the applicable assets and liabilities results in goodwill.  Fair value is determined based on an exit price approach, which contemplates the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The Company's methodology for determining fair value of the acquired tangible and intangible assets and liabilities includes estimating an “as-if vacant” fair value of the physical property, which includes land, building, and improvements.  In addition, the Company determines the estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets and liabilities, considering the following categories: (i) value of in-place leases, and (ii) above and below-market value of in-place leases. The value of in-place leases is estimated based on the value associated with the costs avoided in originating leases compared to the acquired in-place leases as well as the value associated with lost rental and recovery revenue during the assumed lease-up period.  The value of in-place leases is recorded to Depreciation and amortization expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations over the remaining expected term of the respective leases. Above-market and below-market in-place lease values for acquired properties are recorded based on the present value of the difference between (i) the contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to the in-place leases and (ii) management's estimate of fair market lease rates for comparable in-place leases, measured over a period equal to the remaining non-cancelable term of the lease, including below-market renewal options, if applicable.  The value of above-market leases is amortized as a reduction of Lease income over the remaining terms of the respective leases and the value of below-market leases is accreted to Lease income over the remaining terms of the respective leases, including below-market renewal options, if applicable. Changes to these assumptions could result in a different pattern of recognition.  If tenants do not remain in their lease through the expected term or exercise an assumed renewal option, there could be a material impact to earnings. Valuation of Real Estate Investments In accordance with GAAP, we evaluate our real estate for impairment whenever there are indicators, including property operating performance and general market conditions, that the carrying value of our real estate properties (including any related amortizable intangible assets or liabilities) may not be recoverable.  If such indicators occur, we compare the current carrying value of the asset to the estimated undiscounted cash flows that are directly associated with the use and ultimate disposition of the asset.  Our estimated cash flows are based on several key assumptions, including rental rates, expected leasing activity, costs of tenant improvements, leasing commissions, anticipated hold period, comparable sales information, and assumptions regarding the residual value upon disposition, including the exit capitalization rate.  These key assumptions are subjective in nature and the resulting impairment, if any, could differ from the actual gain or loss recognized upon ultimate sale in an arm's length transaction.  If the carrying value of the asset exceeds the estimated undiscounted cash flows, an impairment loss is recognized equal to the excess of carrying value over fair value. The fair value of real estate assets is subjective and is determined through comparable sales information and other market data if available, as well as the use of an income approach such as the direct capitalization method or the discounted cash flow approach.  Such 56 cash flow projections consider factors such as expected future operating income, trends and prospects, as well as the effects of demand, competition and other factors, and therefore is subject to management judgment and changes in those factors could impact the determination of fair value. In estimating the fair value of undeveloped land, we generally use market data and comparable sales information. Changes in our disposition strategy or changes in the marketplace may alter the hold period of an asset or asset group, which may result in an impairment loss and such loss could be material to the Company's financial condition or operating performance. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to Consolidated Financial Statements. Environmental Matters We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations as they apply to our shopping centers pertaining primarily to specific chemicals historically used by certain current and former dry cleaning tenants, the existence of asbestos in older shopping centers, and the presence of underground petroleum storage tanks.  We believe that the few tenants who currently operate dry cleaning plants or gas stations do so in accordance with current laws and regulations.  Generally, we endeavor to require tenants to remove dry cleaning plants from our shopping centers or convert them to more environmentally friendly systems, in accordance with the terms of our leases.  We also have a blanket environmental insurance policy for third-party liabilities and remediation costs on shopping centers that currently have no known environmental contamination.  We have also secured environmental insurance policies, where appropriate, on a relatively small number of specific properties with known contamination, in order to mitigate our environmental risk.  We monitor the shopping centers containing environmental issues and in certain cases voluntarily remediate the sites.  We also have legal obligations to remediate certain sites, and we are in the process of doing so. As of December 31, 2020, we had accrued liabilities of $8.3 million for our Pro-rata share of environmental remediation, including our Investments in real estate partnerships.  We believe that the ultimate remediation of currently known environmental matters will not have a material effect on our financial position, liquidity, or results of operations.  We can give no assurance that existing environmental studies on our shopping centers have revealed all potential environmental contamination; that our estimate of liabilities will not change as more information becomes available; that any previous owner, occupant or tenant did not create any material environmental condition not known to us; that the current environmental condition of the shopping centers will not be affected by tenants and occupants, by the condition of nearby properties, or by unrelated third parties; or that changes in applicable environmental laws and regulations or their interpretation will not result in additional environmental liability to us. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have off-balance sheet arrangements, financings, or other relationships with other unconsolidated entities (other than our unconsolidated investment partnerships) or other persons, also known as variable interest entities, not previously discussed.  Many of our unconsolidated investment partnerships’ operating properties have been financed with non-recourse loans, to which we have no repayment guarantees. Inflation/Deflation Inflation has been historically low and has had a minimal impact on the operating performance of our shopping centers; however, inflation may become a greater concern in the future.  Substantially all of our long-term leases contain provisions designed to mitigate the adverse impact of inflation, which require tenants to pay their pro-rata share of operating expenses, including common-area maintenance, real estate taxes, insurance and utilities, thereby reducing our exposure to increases in costs and operating expenses resulting from inflation.  In addition, many of our leases are for terms of less than ten years, which permits us to seek increased rents upon re-rental at market rates.  However, during deflationary periods or periods of economic weakness, minimum rents and percentage rents may decline as the supply of available retail space exceeds demand and consumer spending declines.  Percent leased declines may also result in lower recovery rates of our operating expenses. 57