********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

An investment in the Company involves risks, some of which, including market, credit, technology, strategic, operational, reputational, legal, regulatory and compliance, liquidity, reputational, talent management, estimate and assumption, and other external risks, could be substantial and is inherent in our business. These risks also includes the possibility that the value of the investment could decrease considerably, and dividends or other distributions concerning the investment could be reduced or eliminated. Discussed below are risk factors that could adversely affect our financial results and condition, as well as the value of, and return on investment in the Company. Risk Factor Summary Market Risks • Our businesses have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. • Fluctuations in market interest rates may adversely affect our performance. • Transitions away from and the replacement of LIBOR and other benchmark rates could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Credit Risks • If we experience greater credit losses in our loan portfolios than anticipated, our earnings may be materially adversely affected. • Any future reductions in our credit ratings may increase our funding costs and place limitations on business activities. • Changes in the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. • We may suffer losses if the value of collateral declines in stressed market conditions. Liquidity Risks • Ineffective liquidity management could adversely affect our financial results and condition. • We rely on the mortgage secondary market to manage various risks. Technology Risks • We are at risk of a variety of systems failures or errors and cybersecurity incidents that could adversely affect customer experience and our business and financial performance. • We are subject to complex and evolving laws, regulations, rules, standards and contractual obligations regarding privacy and cybersecurity, which could increase the cost of doing business, compliance risks and potential liability. • We will continually encounter technological change and must effectively anticipate, develop, and implement new technology. Strategic Risks • Industry competition may adversely affect our degree of success. • Our operations are concentrated primarily in the South, Midwest and Texas, and adverse changes in the economic conditions in this region can adversely affect our financial results and condition. • Weakness in the residential real estate markets could adversely affect our performance. • Weakness in the commercial real estate markets could adversely affect our performance. • Risks associated with home equity products where we are in a second lien position could materially adversely affect our performance. • Weakness in commodity businesses could adversely affect our performance. • An outbreak or escalation of hostilities between countries or within a country or region could have a material adverse effect on the U.S. economy and on our businesses. Operational Risks • We are subject to a variety of operational risks, including the risk of fraud or theft by employees, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. • We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. • We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties. • We are exposed to risk of environmental liability when we take title to property. • We can be negatively affected if we fail to identify and address operational risks associated with the introduction of or changes to products, services and delivery platforms. • Enhanced regulatory and other standards for the oversight of vendors and other service providers can result in higher costs and other potential exposures. Reputational Risks • We are subject to environmental, social and governance risks that could adversely affect our reputation and the trading price of our common stock. • Damage to our reputation could significantly harm our businesses. Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Risks • We are, and may in the future be, subject to litigation, investigations and governmental proceedings that may result in liabilities adversely affecting our financial condition, business or results of operations or in reputational harm. • We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. • We are subject to a variety of risks in connection with any sale of loans we may conduct. • We may be subject to more stringent capital and liquidity requirements. • Rulemaking changes and regulatory initiatives implemented by the CFPB may result in higher regulatory and compliance costs that may adversely affect our results of operations. • We may not be able to complete future acquisitions, may not be successful in realizing the benefits of any future acquisitions that are completed, or may choose not to pursue acquisition opportunities we might find beneficial. • Increases in FDIC insurance assessments may adversely affect our earnings. • Unfavorable results from ongoing stress analyses may adversely affect our ability to retain customers or compete for new business opportunities. • We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments. • We may not pay dividends on shares of our capital stock. • Anti-takeover and banking laws and certain agreements and charter provisions may adversely affect share value. 22 Table of Contents • Our amended and restated bylaws designate (i) the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders and (ii) the federal district courts of the United States as the sole and exclusive forum for any action asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act, which could limit our shareholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with our company or our company’s directors, officers or other employees. • We face substantial legal and operational risks in safeguarding personal information. • Differences in regulation can affect our ability to compete effectively. Talent Management Risks • Our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees. • Our operations rely on its ability, and the ability of key external parties, to maintain appropriately-staffed workforces, and on the competence, trustworthiness, health and safety of employees. Estimates and Assumptions Risks • Our reported financial results depend on management’s selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and estimates. • If the models that we use in our business perform poorly or provide inadequate information, our business or results of operations may be adversely affected. • Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. • The value of our goodwill and other intangible assets may decline in the future. Other External Risks • Our business and financial performance could be adversely affected by a U.S. government debt default or the threat of such a default. • Our business, financial condition, liquidity, capital and results of operations have been, and will likely continue to be, adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and may, in the future also be affected by other pandemics. • Weather-related events and other natural or man-made disasters could cause a disruption in our operations or lead to other consequences that could adversely impact our financial results and condition. These impacts could be intensified by climate change. Heightening focus on climate change may also carry transition risks that could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Market Risks Our businesses have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. We provide traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services, as well as other financial services including asset management, wealth management, securities brokerage, merger-and-acquisition advisory services and other specialty financing. All of our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally or specifically in the South, Midwest and Texas, the principal markets in which we conduct business. A worsening of business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we conduct business could have adverse effects on our business, including the following: • A decrease in the demand for, or the availability of, loans and other products and services offered by us, including as a result of increases in interest rates; • A decrease in the value of our loans held for sale or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate; • An impairment of certain intangible assets, such as goodwill; • A decrease in interest income from variable rate loans, due to declines in interest rates; and • An increase in the number of clients and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us, which could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provisions for credit losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale • A decrease in the supply of deposits or significant increase in competition for deposits, which could result in substantial increase in cost to retain and service deposits. In the event of severely adverse business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we conduct business, there can be no assurance that the federal government and the Federal Reserve would intervene or make adjustments to fiscal or monetary policy that would cause business and economic conditions to improve. If business and economic conditions worsen or volatility increases, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Volatility and uncertainty related to inflation and the effects of inflation, which has recently led to increased costs for businesses and consumers and potentially contribute to poor business and economic conditions generally, may enhance or 23 Table of Contents contribute to some of the risks of our business. For example, higher inflation, or volatility and uncertainty related to inflation, could reduce demand for our products, adversely affect the creditworthiness of the Company’s borrowers or result in lower values for our investment securities and other fixed-rate assets. In response to sustained inflationary pressures, the Federal Reserve increased the benchmark federal funds interest rate by 425 basis points to a range between 4.25 percent and 4.50 percent between their March 16, 2022 and December 14, 2022 meetings. Furthermore, on February 1, 2023, the Federal Reserve increased the benchmark federal funds interest rate by an additional 25 basis points to a range between 4.50 percent and 4.75 percent. The range of potential rate paths over the coming year is extremely wide and will ultimately be driven by the path for inflation, and its impact on the labor market and economic growth.  The Federal Reserve also plans to continue to reduce the size of its balance sheet in 2023.To the extent these policies do not mitigate the volatility and uncertainty related to inflation and the effects of inflation, or to the extent conditions otherwise worsen, we could experience adverse effects on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Fluctuations in market interest rates may adversely affect our performance. Our profitability depends to a large extent on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income received on interest-earning assets (primarily loans, leases, investment securities and cash balances held at the FRB) and the interest expense incurred in connection with interest-bearing liabilities (primarily deposits and borrowings). The level of net interest income is mostly a function of the average balance of interest-earning assets, the average balance of interest-bearing liabilities and the spread between the yield on such assets and the cost of such liabilities. These factors are influenced by both the pricing and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities which, in turn, are impacted by external factors such as the local economy, competition for loans and deposits, the monetary policy of the FOMC and interest rates markets. The cost of our deposits and short-term wholesale borrowings is heavily impacted by market-based liquidity conditions and interest rates, factors which are influenced directly and indirectly by a mixture of effects including the FOMC’s monetary policy and economic conditions. Moreover, the market's expectation of the future course of FOMC policy and economic factors interact to influence short- and long-tenor rates in the yield curve, each of which have diverse impacts on Regions' portfolios. Yields generated by our loans and securities and the costs of deposits and wholesale borrowings are driven by both short-term and longer-term interest rates to different degrees, thus impacting net interest income. If the yields on our interest-bearing liabilities increase at a faster pace than the yields on our interest-earning assets, our net interest income may decline. Our net interest income could be similarly affected if the yields on our interest-earning assets decline at a faster pace than the yields on our interest-bearing liabilities. Finally, interest rate volatility and levels directly impact the value of certain fixed-rate assets and liabilities, which may impact unrealized gains or unrealized losses in our portfolios. The low benchmark federal funds interest rate observed over the last several years has ended leading to increased volatility in fixed income markets. The Federal Reserve increased the benchmark federal funds interest rate by 425 basis points to a range between 4.25 percent and 4.50 percent between their March 16, 2022 and December 14, 2022 meetings. Furthermore, on February 1, 2023, the Federal Reserve increased the benchmark federal funds interest rate by an additional 25 basis points to a range between 4.50 percent and 4.75, and has signaled it intends to hold interest rates at an elevated level over the course of 2023. The range of potential rate paths over the coming year is extremely wide and will ultimately be driven by the path for inflation, and its impact on the labor market and economic growth. While a persistently elevated, or increasing rate environment from current levels would continue to support net interest income, increasing rates would also increase debt service requirements for some of our borrowers and may adversely affect those borrowers’ ability to pay as contractually obligated, ultimately resulting in additional delinquencies or charge-offs. Conversely, should interest rates move lower, we would expect modest declines in net interest income over the next twelve months, aided somewhat by the protection in place from the Company’s interest rate hedging program. Sustained higher interest rates and continued Federal Reserve asset reductions may adversely affect market stability, market liquidity and the Company’s financial performance and condition. We cannot predict the nature or timing of future changes in monetary policies or the precise effects such changes may have on our activities and financial results. For a more detailed discussion of these risks and our management strategies for these risks, see the "Executive Overview", “Net Interest Income, Margin and Interest Rate Risk,” “Net Interest Income and Margin,” “Market Risk-Interest Rate Risk” and “Securities” sections of Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Transitions away from and the replacement of LIBOR and other benchmark rates could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain securities within the investment portfolio, certain hedging transactions and certain of the products that we offer, such as floating-rate loans and mortgages, determine their applicable interest rate or payment amount by reference to a benchmark rate, such as LIBOR, an index, or other financial metric. LIBOR and certain other benchmark rates are the subject of recent national, international, and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. The publication of one week and two-month LIBOR settings ceased to be published as of December 31, 2021. The publication of all other LIBOR settings, which are the most commonly used U.S. dollar LIBOR settings, will cease to be published or cease to be representative after June 30, 24 Table of Contents 2023. Financial market participants have transitioned away from LIBOR and other similar inter-bank offering rates.  Regions has adopted new products linked to alternative reference rates, such as adjustable-rate mortgages, consistent with guidance provided by U.S. regulators, ARRC and GSEs. Certain of our LIBOR-based financial products and contracts, including, but not limited to, hedging products, preferred stock, investments, and loans, extend beyond proposed LIBOR cessation timelines. We are in the process of transitioning the aforementioned LIBOR-based products to alternative rates that are consistent with the IOSCO's Principles for Financial Benchmarks. For a more detailed discussion of our management strategies related to the LIBOR cessation and transition, see the “LIBOR Transition” section of Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Credit Risks If we experience greater credit losses in our loan portfolios than anticipated, our earnings may be materially adversely affected. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans and leases according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans and leases may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for credit losses based on a number of factors. Our management periodically determines the allowance for credit losses based on available information, including the quality of the loan portfolio, the value of the underlying collateral and the level of non-accrual loans, taking into account relevant information about past events, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts of future economic conditions that affect the collectability of our loan portfolio. Increases in the allowance will result in an expense for the period, thereby reducing our reported net income. If, as a result of general economic conditions, there is a decrease in asset quality or growth in the loan portfolio and management determines that additional increases in the allowance for credit losses are necessary, we may incur additional expenses which will reduce our net income, and our business, results of operations or financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Although our management will establish an allowance for credit losses it believes is appropriate to absorb expected credit losses over the life of loans in our loan portfolio, this allowance may not be adequate. For example, if a hurricane or other natural disaster were to occur in one of our principal markets or if economic conditions in those markets were to deteriorate unexpectedly, additional credit losses not incorporated in the existing allowance for credit losses may occur. Losses in excess of the existing allowance for credit losses will reduce our net income and could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, perhaps materially. In addition, bank regulatory agencies will periodically review our allowance for credit losses and the value attributed to non-accrual loans and to real estate acquired through foreclosure. Such regulatory agencies may require us to adjust our determination of the value for these items. These adjustments could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Any future reductions in our credit ratings may increase our funding costs and place limitations on business activities. The major ratings agencies regularly evaluate us, and their ratings are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength and conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. In general, ratings agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix and level and quality of earnings, and we may not be able to maintain our current credit ratings. The ratings assigned to Regions and Regions Bank remain subject to change at any time, and it is possible that any ratings agency will take action to downgrade Regions, Regions Bank or both in the future. Additionally, ratings agencies may also make substantial changes to their ratings policies and practices, which may affect our credit ratings. In the future, changes to existing ratings guidelines and new ratings guidelines may, among other things, adversely affect the ratings of our securities or other securities in which we have an economic interest. Our credit ratings can have negative consequences that can impact our ability to access the debt and capital markets, as well as reduce our profitability through increased costs on future debt issuances. If we were to be downgraded below investment grade, we may not be able to reliably access the short-term unsecured funding markets, and certain customers could be prohibited from placing deposits with Regions Bank, which could cause us to hold more cash and liquid investments to meet our ongoing liquidity needs. Such actions could reduce our profitability as these liquid investments earn a lower return than other assets, such as loans. See the "Liquidity" section  within “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for our liquidity policy. Additionally, if we were to be downgraded to below investment grade, certain counterparty contracts may be required to be renegotiated or require posting of additional collateral. Refer to Note 20 "Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities" to the consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fair value of contracts subject to 25 Table of Contents contingent credit features and the collateral postings associated with such contracts. Although the exact amount of additional collateral is unknown, it is reasonable to conclude that we may be required to post additional collateral related to existing contracts with contingent credit features. Changes in the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even mere speculation about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, may lead to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated if the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or lease or derivative exposure due us. Any such losses may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may suffer losses if the value of collateral declines in stressed market conditions. During periods of market stress or illiquidity, our credit risk may be further increased when we fail to realize the fair value of the collateral we hold; collateral is liquidated at prices that are not sufficient to recover the full amount owed to us; or counterparties are unable to post collateral, whether for operational or other reasons. Furthermore, disputes with counterparties concerning the valuation of collateral may increase in times of significant market stress, volatility or illiquidity, and we could suffer losses during these periods if we are unable to realize the fair value of collateral or to manage declines in the value of collateral. Liquidity Risks Ineffective liquidity management could adversely affect our financial results and condition. Effective liquidity management is essential for the operation of our business. We require sufficient liquidity to meet customer loan requests, customer deposit maturities/withdrawals, payments on our debt obligations as they come due and other cash commitments under both normal operating conditions and unpredictable circumstances causing industry or general financial market stress. A substantial majority of our assets are loans, which cannot necessarily be called or sold on timeframes short enough to meet these liquidity requirements. In addition, our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy generally. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include increases in funding costs, a downturn in the geographic markets in which our loans and operations are concentrated, difficult credit markets, or unforeseen outflows of cash or collateral, including as a result of unusual effects in the market. Although we have historically been able to meet the liquidity needs of customers as necessary, the ability to do so is not assured, especially if a large number of our depositors seek to withdraw their accounts, regardless of the reason. A failure to maintain adequate liquidity could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on the mortgage secondary market to manage various risks. In 2022 , we sold 36.9% of the mortgage loans we originated to the Agencies. We rely on the Agencies to purchase loans that meet their conforming loan requirements in order to reduce our credit risk and provide funding for additional loans we desire to originate. We cannot provide assurance that the Agencies will not materially limit their purchases of conforming loans due to capital constraints, a change in the criteria for conforming loans or other factors. Additionally, various proposals have been made to reform the U.S. residential mortgage finance market, including the role of the Agencies. The exact effects of any such reforms, if implemented, are not yet known, but they may limit our ability to sell conforming loans to the Agencies. If we are unable to continue to sell conforming loans to the Agencies, our ability to fund, and thus originate, additional mortgage loans may be adversely affected, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Technology Risks We are at risk of a variety of systems failures or errors and cybersecurity incidents that could adversely affect customer experience and our business and financial performance. Failure or errors in or breach of our systems or networks, or those of our third-party service providers (or providers to such third-party service providers), including as a result of cyber-attacks, information security breaches or other similar incidents, could disrupt our businesses or impact our customers. This could result in the loss, unauthorized disclosure, misuse, or misappropriation of confidential, personal, proprietary, or other information, damage to our reputation, increases to our costs and cause customer and financial losses. As a large financial institution, we depend on our ability to process, record and monitor a large number of customer transactions on a continuous basis and otherwise collect, transmit, store and otherwise process a significant amount of personal information in connection therewith. As public and regulatory expectations, as well as 26 Table of Contents our customers’ expectations, have increased regarding operational resilience and information security, our systems, networks and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions and breakdowns as well as cyber-attacks, information security breaches or similar incidents. Our business, financial, accounting and data processing systems or other operating systems and facilities may stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors, including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. For example, there could be electrical or telecommunications outages; natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes; pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts and civil unrest; and, as described below, cyber-attacks, information security breaches or other similar incidents. Although we have business continuity plans and other safeguards in place, our business operations may be adversely affected by significant and widespread disruption to our physical infrastructure or operating systems or networks, or those of our third-party service providers, that support our businesses and customers. Information security risks for large financial institutions, such as us, have increased significantly in recent years in part because of the proliferation of technology-based products and services and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, nation-states, nation state-supported actors, activists and other external parties. This increase is expected to continue and further intensify. The techniques used by cyber criminals change frequently, may not be recognized until launched (or may evade detection for considerable time) and can be initiated from a variety of sources, including terrorist organizations and hostile foreign governments. These criminals may attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers or other users of our systems and networks to disclose sensitive information (including confidential, personal, proprietary and other information) in order to gain access to data or our systems and networks. Third parties with whom we or our customers do business also present operational and information security risks to us, including cyber-attacks, information security breaches or other similar incidents or failures or disruptions of their own systems and networks. In recent years, attacks in which hackers inserted malware into software updates, have highlighted the growing risk from the infection of software while it is under assembly, known as a supply chain attack. While we have successfully defended similar attacks, we could become the subject of a successful similar style attack through a supply chain compromise. As noted above, our operations rely on the secure collection, transmission, storage and other processing of confidential, personal, proprietary, and other information in our operating systems and networks. In addition, to access our products and services, our customers may use personal computers, smartphones, tablets, and other mobile devices that are beyond our control environment. Additionally, cyber-attacks, information security breaches and other similar incidents (such as, among other things, denial of service attacks, ransomware, malware, worms, software bugs, social engineering, phishing attacks, credential stuffing, account takeovers, insider threats, theft, malfeasance or improper access by employees or service providers, human error, fraud, or other similar disruptions), or hacking or terrorist activities, could disrupt our or our customers’ or other third parties’ business operations. For example, denial of service attacks have been launched against a number of large financial services institutions, including us. Although these past events have not resulted in a breach of our client data or account information, such attacks have adversely affected the performance of Regions Bank’s website, www.regions.com, and, in some instances, prevented customers from accessing Regions Bank’s secure websites for consumer and commercial applications. In all cases, the attacks primarily resulted in inconvenience; however, future cyber-attacks could be more disruptive and damaging, and we may not be able to anticipate or prevent all such attacks. Recently, the United States government has raised concerns about a potential increase in cyber-attacks generally as a result of the military conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the related sanctions imposed by the United States and other countries. Although we believe that we have appropriate information security procedures and controls designed to prevent or limit the effects of a cyber-attack, information security breach or other similar incident, our technologies, systems, networks and our customers’ devices may be the target of cyber-attacks information security breaches or other similar incidents that could result in the unauthorized release, accessing, gathering, monitoring, loss, destruction, modification, acquisition, transfer, use or other processing of us or our customers’ confidential, personal, proprietary and other information. We also have insurance coverage, that is reviewed annually, that may, subject to policy terms and conditions, cover certain losses associated with cyber-attacks, information security breaches, and other similar incidents, but our insurer may deny coverage as to any future claim or our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses from any such attack, breach, or incident, including any related damage to our reputation. In addition, given the proliferation of cyber-events in our industry, the cost of cyber insurance is expected to continue to increase and may not be available at all or on acceptable terms. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our layers of defense or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. We may also be required to incur significant costs in connection with any regulatory investigation or civil litigation, fines, damages or injunctions resulting from a cyber-attack, information security breach, or other similar incident that impacts us. In addition, our third-party service providers may be unable to identify vulnerabilities in their systems and networks or, once identified, be unable to promptly provide required patches or other remedial measures. Further, even if provided, such patches or remedial measures may not fully address any vulnerability or may be difficult for us to implement. While we perform cybersecurity diligence on our key service providers, because we do not control our service providers and our ability to monitor their cybersecurity is limited, we cannot ensure the cybersecurity measures they take will be sufficient to protect any information we share them. Due to applicable laws and regulations or contractual obligations, we may be held responsible for cyber-attacks, 27 Table of Contents information security breaches or other similar incidents attributed to our service providers as they relate to the information we share with them. Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems or networks that support our businesses and customers, or cyber-attacks, information security breaches, or other similar incidents of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services, could result in customer attrition, violation of applicable privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations, notifications obligations, regulatory fines, civil litigation, damages, injunctions, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, remediation costs, additional cybersecurity protection costs, increased insurance premiums and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We could also be adversely affected if we lose access to information or services from a third-party service provider as a result of a cyber attack, information security breach, or similar incident, or system, network or operational failure or disruption affecting the third-party service provider. For a more detailed discussion of these risks and specific occurrences, see the “Information Security Risk” section of Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are subject to complex and evolving laws, regulations, rules, standards and contractual obligations regarding privacy and cybersecurity, which could increase the cost of doing business, compliance risks and potential liability. We are subject to complex and evolving laws, regulations, rules, standards and contractual relating to the privacy and cybersecurity of the personal information of clients, employees or others, and any failure to comply with these laws, regulations, rules, standards and contractual obligations could expose us to liability and/or reputational damage. As new privacy and cybersecurity-related laws, regulations, rules and standards are implemented, the time and resources needed for us to comply with such laws, regulations, rules and standards as well as our potential liability for non-compliance and reporting obligations in the case of cyber-attacks, information security breaches or other similar incidents, may significantly increase. In addition, our businesses are increasingly subject to laws, regulations, rules and standards relating to privacy, cybersecurity, surveillance, encryption and data use in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Compliance with these laws, regulations, rules and standards may require us to change our policies, procedures and technology for information security and segregation of data, which could, among other things, make us more vulnerable to operational failures and to monetary penalties for breach of such laws, regulations, rules and standards. At the federal level, we are subject to the GLBA which requires financial institutions to, among other things, periodically disclose their privacy policies and practices relating to sharing personal information and, in some cases, enables retail customers to opt out of the sharing of certain non-public personal information with unaffiliated third parties. We are also subject to the rules and regulations promulgated under the authority of the Federal Trade Commission, which regulates unfair or deceptive acts or practices, including with respect to privacy and cybersecurity. Moreover, the United States Congress has recently considered, and is currently considering, various proposals for more comprehensive privacy and cybersecurity legislation, to which we may be subject if passed. Additionally, the federal banking regulators, as well as the SEC and related self-regulatory organizations, regularly issue guidance regarding cybersecurity that is intended to enhance cyber risk management among financial institutions. Privacy and cybersecurity are also areas of increasing state legislative focus and we are, or may in the future become, subject to various state laws and regulations regarding privacy and cybersecurity, such as the California Consumer Protection Act of 2018, as amended by the CCPA. Other states where we do business, or may in the future do business, or from which we otherwise collect, or may in the future otherwise collect, personal information of residents have implemented, or are considering implementing, comprehensive privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations sharing similarities with the CCPA. Such laws have taken effect, or are scheduled to take effect, in at least four other states in 2023 alone (Virginia, Colorado, Connecticut and Utah). In addition, laws in all 50 U.S. states generally require businesses to provide notice under certain circumstances to individuals whose personal information has been disclosed as a result of a data breach. Certain state laws and regulations may be more stringent, broader in scope, or offer greater individual rights, with respect to personal information than federal or other state laws and regulations, and such laws and regulations may differ from each other, which may complicate compliance efforts and increase compliance costs. Aspects of the CCPA and other federal and state laws and regulations relating to privacy and cybersecurity, as well as their enforcement, remain unclear, and we may be required to modify our practices in an effort to comply with them. Further, while we strive to publish and prominently display privacy policies that are accurate, comprehensive, and compliant with applicable laws, regulations, rules and industry standards, we cannot ensure that our privacy policies and other statements regarding our practices will be sufficient to protect us from claims, proceedings, liability or adverse publicity relating to privacy or cybersecurity. Although we endeavor to comply with our privacy policies, we may at times fail to do so or be alleged to have failed to do so. The publication of our privacy policies and other documentation that provide promises and assurances about privacy and cybersecurity can subject us to potential federal or state action if they are found to be deceptive, unfair, or misrepresents our actual practices. Additional risks could arise in connection with any failure or perceived failure by us, our service providers or other third parties with which we do business to provide adequate disclosure or transparency to our customers about the personal information collected from them and its use, to receive, document or honor the privacy 28 Table of Contents preferences expressed by our customers, to protect personal information from unauthorized disclosure, or to maintain proper training on privacy practices for all employees or third parties who have access to personal information in our possession or control. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our privacy policies, or applicable privacy and cybersecurity laws, regulations, rules, standards or contractual obligations, or any compromise of security that results in unauthorized access to, or unauthorized loss, destruction, use, modification, acquisition, disclosure, release or transfer of personal information, may result in requirements to modify or cease certain operations or practices, the expenditure of substantial costs, time and other resources, proceedings or actions against us, legal liability, governmental investigations, enforcement actions, claims, fines, judgments, awards, penalties, sanctions and costly litigation (including class actions). Any of the foregoing could harm our reputation, distract our management and technical personnel, increase our costs of doing business, adversely affect the demand for our products and services, and ultimately result in the imposition of liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For further discussion of the privacy and cybersecurity laws, regulations, rules and standards we are, or may in the future become, subject to, see the “Supervision and Regulation-Privacy and Cybersecurity” section of Item 1. “Business” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We will continually encounter technological change and must effectively anticipate, develop, and implement new technology. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. We have invested in technology to automate functions previously performed manually, to facilitate the ability of clients to engage in financial transactions and otherwise to enhance the client experience with respect to our products and services. We expect to make additional investments in innovation and technology to address technological disruption in the industry and improve client offerings and service. These changes allow us to better serve the our clients and to reduce costs. Our continued success depends, in part, upon our ability to address clients’ needs by using technology to provide products and services that satisfy client demands, including demands for faster and more secure payment services, to create efficiencies in our operations and to integrate those offerings with legacy platforms or to update those legacy platforms. A failure to maintain or enhance our competitive position with respect to technology, whether because of a failure to anticipate client expectations, a failure in the performance of technological developments or an untimely roll out of developments, may cause us to lose market share or incur additional expense. Strategic Risks Industry competition may adversely affect our degree of success. Our profitability depends on our ability to compete successfully. We operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory, market, and technological changes, as well as continued industry consolidation. This consolidation may produce larger, better-capitalized and more geographically diverse companies that are capable of offering a wider array of financial products and services at more competitive prices. For example, there have been a number of recently completed or announced significant mergers of financial institutions within our market areas, and notwithstanding current regulatory approval delays there may in the future be additional consolidation. These mergers will, if completed, allow the merged financial institutions to benefit from cost savings and shared resources. In our market areas, we face competition from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, internet banks, fintechs, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, mortgage companies, and other financial intermediaries that offer similar services. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations we are and, therefore, may have greater flexibility in competing for business. In addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services, such as loans and payment services, that traditionally were banking products, and made it possible for technology companies to compete with financial institutions in providing electronic, internet-based, and mobile phone–based financial solutions. Competition with non-banks, including technology companies, to provide financial products and services is intensifying. In particular, the activity of fintechs has grown significantly over recent years and is expected to continue to grow. Fintechs have and may continue to offer bank or bank-like products. For example, a number of fintechs have applied for, and in some cases been granted, bank or industrial loan charters. In addition, other fintechs have partnered with existing banks to allow them to offer deposit products to their customers. Regulatory changes, such as the revisions to the FDIC’s rules on brokered deposits intended to reflect recent technological changes and innovations, may also make it easier for fintechs to partner with banks and offer deposit products. In addition to fintechs, traditional technology companies have begun to make efforts toward providing financial services directly to their customers and are expected to continue to explore new ways to do so. Many of these companies, including our competitors, have fewer regulatory constraints, and some have lower cost structures, in part due to lack of physical locations. Regions provides an array of digital products and services to our customers and we expect a bank’s digital offerings to be a key competitive differentiator. The move toward digital banking and financial services, and customer 29 Table of Contents expectations regarding digital offerings, will require us to invest greater resources in technological improvements and may put us at a disadvantage to banks and non-banks with greater resources to spend on technology. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of additional factors, including customer convenience, quality of service, personal contacts, the quality of the technology that supports the customer experience, pricing and range of products. If we are unable to successfully compete for new customers and to retain our current customers, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected, perhaps materially. In particular, if we experience an outflow of deposits as a result of our customers seeking investments with higher yields or greater financial stability, we may be forced to rely more heavily on borrowings and other sources of funding to operate our business and meet withdrawal demands, thereby adversely affecting our net interest margin and financial performance. In addition, we may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. As a result, our ability to effectively compete to retain or acquire new business may be impaired, and our business, financial condition or results of operations, may be adversely affected. Our operations are concentrated primarily in the South, Midwest and Texas, and adverse changes in the economic conditions in this region can adversely affect our financial results and condition. Our operations are concentrated primarily in the South, Midwest and Texas. As a result, local economic conditions in these areas significantly affect the demand for the loans and other products we offer to our customers (including real estate, commercial and construction loans), the ability of borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans.  Any declines in real estate values in these areas may adversely affect borrowers and the value of the collateral securing many of our loans, which could adversely affect our currently performing loans, leading to future delinquencies or defaults and increases in our provision for credit losses. Adverse changes in the economic conditions in these regions could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Weakness in the residential real estate markets could adversely affect our performance. As of December 31, 2022, consumer residential real estate loans represented approximately 25.6% of our total loan portfolio. A general decline in home values would adversely affect the value of collateral securing the residential real estate that we hold, as well as the volume of loan originations and the amount we realize on the sale of real estate loans. These factors could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Weakness in the commercial real estate markets could adversely affect our performance. As of December 31, 2022, approximately 8.6% of our loan portfolio consisted of investor real estate loans. The properties securing income-producing investor real estate loans are typically not fully leased at the origination of the loan. The borrower’s ability to repay the loan is instead dependent upon additional leasing through the life of the loan or the borrower’s successful operation of a business. Continued uncertainty in economic conditions may impair a borrower's business operations and slow the execution of new leases. Such economic conditions may also lead to existing lease turnover. As a result of these factors, vacancy rates for retail, office and industrial space may increase, and hotel occupancy rates may decline. High vacancy and lower occupancy rates could also result in rents falling. The combination of these factors could result in deterioration in the fundamentals underlying the commercial real estate market and the deterioration in value of some of our loans. Any such deterioration could adversely affect the ability of our borrowers to repay the amounts due under their loans. As a result, our business, results of operations or financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Risks associated with home equity products where we are in a second lien position could materially adversely affect our performance. Home equity products, particularly those in a second lien position, may carry a higher risk of of non-collection than other loans. Home equity lending includes both home equity loans and lines of credit. Of our $6.0 billion home equity portfolio at December 31, 2022, approximately $3.5 billion were home equity lines of credit and $2.5 billion were closed-end home equity loans (primarily originated as amortizing loans). Real estate market values at the time of origination directly affect the amount of credit extended, and, in addition, past and future changes in these values impact the depth of potential losses. Second lien position lending carries higher credit risk because any decrease in real estate pricing may result in the value of the collateral being insufficient to cover the second lien after the first lien position has been satisfied. As of December 31, 2022, approximately $1.9 billion of our home equity lines and loans were in a second lien position. Weakness in commodity businesses could adversely affect our performance. Many of our borrowers operate in industries that are directly or indirectly impacted by changes in commodity prices. This includes agriculture, livestock, metals, timber, textiles and energy businesses (including oil, gas and petrochemical), as well as businesses indirectly impacted by commodities prices such as businesses that transport commodities or manufacture equipment used in production of commodities. Changes in commodity prices depend on local, regional and global events or conditions that affect supply and demand for the relevant commodity. These industries have been, and may in the future be, subject to significant volatility. For example, oil prices have been volatile, both rising and falling, in recent years. Such volatility is 30 Table of Contents expected to continue in the foreseeable future due to an unpredictable geopolitical and economic environment. As a consequence of oil and gas price volatility, our energy-related portfolio may be subject to additional pressure on credit quality metrics including past due, criticized, and non-performing loans, as well as net charge-offs. In addition, legislative changes such as the elimination of certain tax incentives and the transition to a less carbon dependent economy in response to climate change and other factors could have significant impacts on this portfolio. An outbreak or escalation of hostilities between countries or within a country or region could have a material adverse effect on the U.S. economy and on our businesses. Aggressive actions by hostile governments or groups, including armed conflict or intensified cyber attacks, could expand in unpredictable ways by drawing in other countries or escalating into full-scale war with potentially catastrophic consequences, particularly if one or more of the combatants possess nuclear weapons. Depending on the scope of the conflict, the hostilities could result in worldwide economic disruption, heightened volatility in financial markets, severe declines in asset values, disruption of global trade and supply chains, and diminished consumer, business and investor confidence. Any of the above consequences could have significant negative effects on the U.S. economy, and, as a result, our operations and earnings. We could also experience more numerous and aggressive cyber attacks launched by or under the sponsorship of one or more of the adversaries in such a conflict. Operational Risks We are subject to a variety of operational risks, including the risk of fraud or theft by employees, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including business resilience, process, third party, information technology, human resource, model, and fraud risks, each of which may be amplified by continued remote work. Our fraud risks include fraud committed by external parties against the Company or its customers and fraud committed internally by our associates. Certain fraud risks, including identity theft and account takeover may increase as a result of customers’ account or personally identifiable information being obtained through breaches of retailers’ or other third parties’ networks. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, mitigate, report and analyze these risks; however, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated, monitored or identified. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses, we may have to expend resources detecting and correcting the failure in our systems and we may be subject to potential claims from third parties and government agencies. We may also suffer severe reputational damage. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In particular, the unauthorized disclosure, misappropriation, mishandling or misuse of personal, non-public, confidential or proprietary information of customers could result in significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. Third parties provide key components of our business operations such as data processing, recording and monitoring transactions, online banking interfaces and services, Internet connections and network access. While we have selected these third-party vendors carefully, performing upfront due diligence and ongoing monitoring activities, we do not control their actions. Any issues that arise with respect to these third parties, including those resulting from disruptions in services provided by a vendor (including as a result of a cyber-attack, other information security event or a natural disaster), financial or operational difficulties for the vendor, issues at third-party vendors to the vendors, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes, failure of a vendor to provide services for any reason, poor performance of services, failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or fraud or misconduct on the part of employees of any of our vendors, could trigger regulatory notification obligations on us, adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers, our reputation and our ability to conduct our business. In certain situations, replacing these third-party vendors could also create significant delay and expense. Accordingly, use of such third parties creates an unavoidable, inherent risk to our business operations. Many of our vendors have also been impacted by remote work, market volatility, and other factors that increase their risks of business disruption or that may otherwise affect their ability to perform under the terms of any agreements with us or provide essential services. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors if made available. If this information is inaccurate, we may be subject to regulatory action, reputational harm or other adverse effects with respect to the operation of our business, our financial condition and our results of operations. 31 Table of Contents We are exposed to risk of environmental liability when we take title to property. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to real estate. As a result, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. We can be negatively affected if we fail to identify and address operational risks associated with the introduction of or changes to products, services and delivery platforms. When we launch a new product or service, introduce a new platform for the delivery or distribution of products or services (including mobile connectivity, electronic trading and cloud computing), acquire or invest in a business or make changes to an existing product, service or delivery platform, we may not fully appreciate or identify new operational risks that may arise from those changes, or may fail to implement adequate controls to mitigate the risks associated with those changes. Any significant failure in this regard could diminish our ability to operate one or more of our business or result in potential liability to clients, counterparties and customers, and result in increased operating expenses. We could also experience higher litigation costs, including regulatory fines, penalties and other sanctions, reputational damage, impairment of our liquidity, regulatory intervention, or weaker competitive standing. Any of the foregoing consequences could materially and adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. Enhanced regulatory and other standards for the oversight of vendors and other service providers can result in higher costs and other potential exposures. We must comply with enhanced regulatory and other standards associated with doing business with vendors and other service providers, including standards relating to the outsourcing of functions as well as the performance of significant banking and other functions by subsidiaries. We incur significant costs and expenses in connection with our initiatives to address the risks associated with oversight of our internal and external service providers. Our failure to appropriately assess and manage these relationships, especially those involving significant banking functions, shared services or other critical activities, could materially adversely affect us. Specifically, any such failure could result in: potential harm to clients and customers, and any liability associated with that harm; regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions; lower revenues, and the opportunity cost from lost revenues; increased operational costs, or harm to our reputation. Reputational Risks We are subject to environmental, social and governance risks that could adversely affect our reputation and the trading price of our common stock . We are subject to a variety of risks, including reputational risk, associated with environmental, social and governance, or ESG, issues. As a large financial institution with a diverse base of customers, vendors and suppliers, we may face negative publicity based on the identity, practices, and perceptions of certain  entities with whom financial institutions choose to do business. The public holds diverse and potentially conflicting views of certain entities with whom we choose to do business and their activities, including the perceived environmental, social or economic impacts of those entities or of financial institutions relationships with those entities. Because we have multiple stakeholders, among them shareholders, customers, employees, federal and state regulatory authorities, and political entities, often those stakeholders have differing priorities and expectations regarding ESG issues. Simultaneous, disparate sentiments from multiple stakeholder groups must be considered. Taking action in conflict with one or another of those stakeholder's expectations could lead to loss of business, adverse publicity, customer complaints, or public protests. Negative publicity may be driven by adverse news coverage in traditional media and may also be spread more broadly through the use of social media platforms. If our relationships with our customers, vendors and suppliers were to become the subject of such negative publicity, our ability to attract and retain customers and employees, compete effectively, and grow our business may be negatively impacted. Additionally, a growing number of investors (in particular significant U.S. institutional investors who hold and manage substantial equity positions, in some cases in nearly all major U.S. listed companies) are integrating ESG factors into their analysis of the expected risk and return of potential investments. The specific ESG factors considered, as well as the approach to incorporating the factors into a broader investment process, vary by investor and can shift over time. Our failure to align with, or remain aligned with, investors' ESG-related priorities may negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. Damage to our reputation could significantly harm our businesses. Our ability to attract and retain customers and highly-skilled management and employees is impacted by our reputation. A negative public opinion of us and our business can result from any number of activities, including our lending practices, corporate governance and regulatory compliance, acquisitions, and actions taken by community organizations in response to 32 Table of Contents these activities. Furthermore, negative publicity regarding us as an employer could have an adverse impact on our reputation, especially with respect to matters of diversity, pay equity and workplace harassment. Significant harm to our reputation, or the reputation of any company, could also arise as a result of regulatory or governmental actions, litigation and the activities of our customers, other participants in the financial services industry or our contractual counterparties, such as our service providers and vendors. In addition, a cybersecurity event affecting us or our customers’ data could have a negative impact on our reputation and customer confidence in us and our cybersecurity practices. Damage to our reputation could also adversely affect our credit ratings and access to the capital markets. Additionally, the widespread use of social media platforms by virtually every segment of society facilitates the rapid dissemination of information or misinformation, which magnifies the potential harm to our reputation. Legal, Regulatory, and Compliance Risks We are, and may in the future be, subject to litigation, investigations and governmental proceedings that may result in liabilities adversely affecting our financial condition, business or results of operations or in reputational harm. We and our subsidiaries are, and may in the future be, named as defendants in various class actions and other litigation, and may be the subject of subpoenas, reviews, requests for information, investigations, and formal and informal proceedings by government and self-regulatory agencies regarding our and their businesses and activities (including subpoenas, requests for information and investigations related to the activities of our customers). Any such matters may result in material adverse consequences to our results of operations, financial condition or ability to conduct our business, including adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties (including civil money penalties under applicable banking laws), injunctions, restitution, orders, restrictions on our business activities or other relief. Our involvement in any such matters, even if the matters are ultimately determined in our favor, could also cause significant harm to our reputation and divert management's attention from the operation of our business. Further, any settlement, consent order or adverse judgment in connection with any formal or informal proceeding or investigation by government or self-regulatory agencies may result in additional litigation, investigations or proceedings as other litigants and government or self-regulatory agencies (including the inquiries mentioned above) begin independent reviews of the same businesses or activities. In general, the amounts paid by financial institutions in settlement of proceedings or investigations, including those relating to anti-money laundering matters or sales practices, have increased substantially and are likely to remain elevated. Regulators and other governmental authorities may also be more likely to pursue enforcement actions, or seek admissions of wrongdoing, in connection with the resolution of an inquiry or investigation to the extent a firm has previously been subject to other governmental investigations or enforcement actions. In some cases, governmental authorities have required criminal pleas or other extraordinary terms as part of such settlements, which could have significant collateral consequences for a financial institution, including loss of customers, restrictions on the ability to access the capital markets, and the inability to operate certain businesses or offer certain products for a period of time. In addition, enforcement matters could impact our supervisory and CRA ratings, which may in turn restrict or limit our activities. Additional information relating to our litigation, investigations and other proceedings is discussed in Note 23 "Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees" to the consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. We are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and examination governing almost all aspects of our operations, which limits the businesses in which we may permissibly engage. The laws and regulations governing our business are intended primarily for the protection of our depositors, our customers, the financial system and the FDIC insurance fund, not our shareholders or other creditors. These laws and regulations govern a variety of matters, including certain debt obligations, changes in control, maintenance of adequate capital, and general business operations and financial condition (including permissible types, amounts and terms of loans and investments, the amount of reserves against deposits, restrictions on dividends and repurchases of our capital securities, establishment of branch offices, and the maximum interest rate that may be charged by law). Further, we must obtain approval from our regulators before engaging in many activities, and our regulators have the ability to compel us to, or restrict us from, taking certain actions entirely. There can be no assurance that any regulatory approvals we may require or otherwise seek will be obtained in a timely manner or at all. Regulations affecting banks and other financial institutions are undergoing continuous review and frequently change, and the ultimate effect of such changes cannot be predicted. Regulations and laws may be modified or repealed at any time, and new legislation may be enacted that will affect us, including any changes resulting from the recent change in U.S. presidential administration and change in control of the U.S. Senate. Any changes in any federal and state law, as well as regulations and governmental policies, income tax laws and accounting principles, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including ways that may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Failure to appropriately comply with any such laws, regulations or principles could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties or damage to our reputation, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our regulatory capital position is discussed in 33 Table of Contents greater detail in Note 12 "Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions" to the consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are subject to a variety of risks in connection with any sale of loans we may conduct. In connection with our sale of one or more loan portfolios, we may make certain representations and warranties to the purchaser concerning the loans sold and the procedures under which those loans have been originated and serviced. If any of these representations and warranties are incorrect, we may be required to indemnify the purchaser for any related losses, or we may be required to repurchase part or all of the affected loans. We may also be required to repurchase loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default by the borrower on a loan we have sold. If we are required to make any indemnity payments or repurchases and do not have a remedy available to us against a solvent counterparty, we may not be able to recover our losses resulting from these indemnity payments and repurchases. Consequently, our results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, we must report as held for sale any loans that we have undertaken to sell, whether or not a purchase agreement for the loans has been executed. We may, therefore, be unable to ultimately complete a sale for part or all of the loans we classify as held for sale. Management must exercise its judgment in determining when loans must be reclassified from held for investment status to held for sale status under applicable accounting guidelines. Any failure to accurately report loans as held for sale could result in regulatory investigations and monetary penalties. Any of these actions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Reclassifying loans from held for investment to held for sale also requires that the affected loans be marked to the lower of cost or fair value. As a result, any loans classified as held for sale may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates and by changes in the borrower’s creditworthiness. We may be required to reduce the value of any loans we mark held for sale, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We may be subject to more stringent capital and liquidity requirements. Regions and Regions Bank are each subject to capital adequacy and liquidity guidelines and other regulatory requirements specifying minimum amounts and types of capital that must be maintained. From time to time, the regulators implement changes to these regulatory capital adequacy and liquidity guidelines. If we fail to meet these minimum capital adequacy and liquidity guidelines and other regulatory requirements, we or our subsidiaries may be restricted in the types of activities we may conduct and may be prohibited from taking certain capital actions, such as paying dividends and repurchasing or redeeming capital securities. Regions and Regions Bank are each required to comply with applicable capital adequacy standards established by the Federal Reserve, which are based on the Basel III framework. The Basel Committee has published standards that it describes as the finalization of the Basel III post-crisis regulatory reforms.  Among other things, these standards revise the standardized approach for credit risk and provide a new standardized approach for operational risk capital. The Basel framework contemplates that national regulators would have implemented these standards by January 1, 2023, with an aggregate output floor phasing in through January 1, 2028; however, the U.S. federal bank regulatory authorities have not yet proposed rules implementing the Basel III revisions for purposes of their risk-based capital ratios. Under the current capital rules, these standards only apply to advanced approached institutions and not to Regions or Regions Bank and any impact of these standards on us will depend on the manner in which the revisions are implemented in the U.S. with respect to firms such as Regions and Regions Bank. For more information concerning our compliance with capital and liquidity requirements, see Note 12 "Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions" to the consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Rulemaking changes and regulatory initiatives implemented by the CFPB may result in higher regulatory and compliance costs that may adversely affect our results of operations. Since its formation, the CFPB has finalized a number of significant rules and introduced new regulatory initiatives, including, without limitation, by way of its enforcement authority and through public statements, that could have a significant impact on our business and the financial services industry more generally. We may also be required to add additional compliance personnel or incur other significant compliance-related expenses. Our business, results of operations or competitive position may be adversely affected as a result. In addition, the current U.S. presidential administration recently called on all regulatory agencies to reduce or eliminate certain fees relating to a number of services, including banking services. At the same time, the CFPB launched an initiative to reduce the amounts and types of fees financial institutions may charge, including the issuance of a proposed rule that would significantly reduce the permissible amount of credit card late fees. Such changes could affect the Company’s ability or willingness to provide certain products or services, necessitate changes to the Company’s business practices or have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 34 Table of Contents We may not be able to complete future acquisitions, may not be successful in realizing the benefits of any future acquisitions that are completed, or may choose not to pursue acquisition opportunities we might find beneficial. We may, from time to time, evaluate and engage in the acquisition or divestiture of businesses (including their assets or liabilities, such as loans or deposits). We must generally satisfy a number of meaningful conditions prior to completing any such transaction, including in certain cases, federal and state bank regulatory approvals. The process for obtaining required regulatory approvals, particularly for large financial institutions, like Regions, can be difficult, time-consuming and unpredictable. We may fail to pursue, evaluate or complete strategic and competitively significant business opportunities as a result of our inability, or our perceived inability, to obtain required regulatory approvals in a timely manner or at all. Assuming we are able to successfully complete one or more transactions, we may not be able to successfully integrate and realize the expected synergies from any completed transaction in a timely manner or at all. In particular, we may be held responsible by federal and state regulators for regulatory and compliance failures at an acquired business prior to the date of the acquisition, and these failures by the acquired company may have negative consequences for us, including the imposition of formal or informal enforcement actions. Completion and integration of any transaction may also divert management attention from other matters, result in additional costs and expenses, or adversely affect our relationships with our customers and employees, any of which may adversely affect our business or results of operations. Future acquisitions may also result in dilution of our current shareholders’ ownership interests or may require we incur additional indebtedness or use a substantial amount of our available cash and other liquid assets. As a result, our financial condition may be affected, and we may become more susceptible to economic conditions and competitive pressures. Increases in FDIC insurance assessments may adversely affect our earnings. Our deposits are insured by the FDIC up to legal limits and, accordingly, we are subject to FDIC deposit insurance assessments. We generally cannot control the amount of assessments we will be required to pay for FDIC insurance. During 2022, the FDIC adopted a final rule to increase initial base deposit insurance assessment rate schedules by 2 basis points, beginning with the first quarterly assessment period of 2023. The final rule requires the revised rates to remain in effect until the DIF reserve ratio meets or exceeds 2 percent. The FDIC may require us to pay higher FDIC assessments than we currently do or may charge additional special assessments or future prepayments if, for example, there are financial institution failures in the future. Any increase in deposit assessments or special assessments may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. See the “Supervision and Regulation-Deposit Insurance” discussion within Item 1. “Business” and the “Non-Interest Expense” discussion within Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to the FDIC’s deposit insurance assessments applicable to Regions Bank. Unfavorable results from ongoing stress analyses may adversely affect our ability to retain customers or compete for new business opportunities. The Federal Reserve conducts supervisory stress testing of us to evaluate our ability to absorb losses in baseline and severely adverse economic and stressed financial scenarios generated by the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve also has implemented the SCB framework which created a firm-specific risk sensitive buffer that is informed by the results of supervisory stress testing, and is applied to regulatory minimum capital levels to help determine effective minimum ratio requirements. Firm specific SCB requirements, as well as a summary of the results of certain aspects of the Federal Reserve’s supervisory stress testing and firm specific results are released publicly. Although the theoretical stress tests are not meant to assess our current condition or outlook, our customers may misinterpret and negatively react to the results of these stress tests despite the strength of our financial condition. Any potential misinterpretations and adverse reactions could limit our ability to attract and retain customers or to effectively compete for new business opportunities. The inability to attract and retain customers or effectively compete for new business may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our regulators may also require us to raise additional capital or take other actions, or may impose restrictions on capital distributions, based on the results of the supervisory stress tests, such as requiring revisions or resubmission of our annual capital plan, which could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends and repurchase capital securities. In addition, we may not be able to raise additional capital if required to do so, or may not be able to do so on terms that we believe are advantageous to Regions or its current shareholders. Any such capital raises, if required, may also be dilutive to our existing shareholders. As discussed in the “Supervision and Regulation” section of Item 1. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in  the  second  quarter  of  2022,  we  received  the results  of  the Company's participation  in  the 2022  CCAR process. The  Federal Reserve  communicated  that  the  Company  exceeded  all minimum  capital  levels  under  the  supervisory  stress  test  and  the  Company's SCB for  the  fourth  quarter  of  2022 through  the  third  quarter  of  2023  is  floored  at  2.5  percent. Despite exceeding these minimum capital levels, we may experience unfavorable results from stress test analyses in the future. 35 Table of Contents We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments. We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our banking and other subsidiaries. Our principal source of cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends to our shareholders and principal and interest on our outstanding debt, is dividends from Regions Bank. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by Regions Bank to us, as well as by us to our shareholders. Regulations of both the Federal Reserve and the State of Alabama affect the ability of Regions Bank to pay dividends and other distributions to us and to make loans to the holding company. If Regions Bank is unable to make dividend payments to us and sufficient cash or liquidity is not otherwise available, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common and preferred shareholders or principal and interest payments on our outstanding debt. See the “Shareholders’ Equity” section of Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of creditors of that subsidiary, except to the extent that any of our claims as a creditor of such subsidiary may be recognized. As a result, shares of our capital stock are effectively subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations of our subsidiaries. At December 31, 2022, our subsidiaries’ total deposits and borrowings were approximately $132.2 billion. We may not pay dividends on shares of our capital stock. Holders of shares of our capital stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, the terms of our outstanding preferred stock prohibit us from declaring or paying any dividends on any junior series of our capital stock, including our common stock, or from repurchasing, redeeming or acquiring such junior stock, unless we have declared and paid full dividends on our outstanding preferred stock for the most recently completed dividend period. We are also subject to statutory and regulatory limitations on our ability to pay dividends on our capital stock. For example, it is the policy of the Federal Reserve that BHCs should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of earnings, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs, asset quality and financial condition. Additionally, we are subject to the Federal Reserve’s SCB requirement whereby supervisory stress testing informs a buffer above regulatory minimum capital levels that must be maintained to avoid restrictions on capital distributions. Lastly, if we are unable to satisfy the capital requirements applicable to us for any reason, we may be limited in our ability to declare and pay dividends on our capital stock. Anti-takeover and banking laws and certain agreements and charter provisions may adversely affect share value. Certain provisions of state and federal law and our certificate of incorporation may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us without our Board’s approval. Under federal law, subject to certain exemptions, a person, entity or group must notify the federal banking agencies before acquiring control of a BHC. Acquisition of 10% or more of any class of voting stock of a BHC or state member bank, including shares of our common stock, creates a rebuttable presumption that the acquirer “controls” the BHC or state member bank. Also, as noted under the “Supervision and Regulation” section of Item 1. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, a BHC must obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5 percent of the voting shares of any bank, including Regions Bank. One factor the federal banking agencies must consider in certain acquisitions is the systemic impact of the transaction. This may make it more difficult for large institutions to acquire other large institutions and may otherwise delay the regulatory approval process, possibly by requiring public hearings. Similarly, under Alabama state law, a person or group of persons must receive approval from the Superintendent of Banks before acquiring “control” of an Alabama bank or any entity having control of an Alabama bank. For the purposes of determining whether approval is required, “control” is defined as the power, directly or indirectly, to vote the lesser of (i) 25% or more of any class of voting securities of an Alabama bank (or any entity having control of an Alabama bank) or (ii) 10% or more of any class of voting securities of an Alabama bank (or any entity having control of an Alabama bank) if no other person will own, control, or hold the power to vote a majority of that class of voting securities following the acquisition of such voting securities. Furthermore, there also are provisions in our certificate of incorporation that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. For example, holders of our preferred stock have certain voting rights that could adversely affect share value. If and when dividends on the preferred stock have not been declared and paid for at least six quarterly dividend periods or their equivalent (whether or not consecutive), the authorized number of directors then constituting our Board will automatically be increased by two, and the preferred shareholders will be entitled to elect the two additional directors. Also, the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of all of the then-outstanding shares of the preferred stock is required to consummate a binding share-exchange or reclassification involving the preferred stock, or a merger or consolidation of Regions with or into another entity, unless certain requirements are met. These statutory provisions and provisions in our certificate of incorporation, including the rights of the holders of our preferred stock, could result in Regions being less attractive to a potential acquirer and thus adversely affect our share value. 36 Table of Contents Our amended and restated bylaws designate (i) the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders and (ii) the federal district courts of the United States as the sole and exclusive forum for any action asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act, which could limit our shareholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with our company or our company’s directors, officers or other employees . Our amended and restated bylaws (our “bylaws”) contain two forum selection provisions. First, our bylaws provide that, except for claims made under the Securities Act of 1933 (which are the subject of the forum selection provision described in the following sentence), unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the sole and exclusive forum for (i) derivative actions brought on behalf of the Company, (ii) certain actions asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty, (iii) actions asserting a claim against the Company or a director, officer or other employee of the Company arising pursuant to any provision of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation, or our bylaws or (iv) any actions asserting a claim against the Company or any director, officer or other employee of the Company governed by the internal affairs doctrine, shall be a state court located within the State of Delaware or the federal district court for the District of Delaware if no state court located within the State of Delaware has jurisdiction. In addition, our bylaws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the sole and exclusive forum for any action asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), or any rule or regulation promulgated thereunder, shall be the federal district courts of the United States; provided, however, that if this particular exclusive forum provision or its application is deemed illegal, invalid or unenforceable, the sole and exclusive forum for any action asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act shall be the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware. Our bylaws further provide that our shareholders are deemed to have received notice of and consented to both of these forum selection provisions. The forum selection provisions of our bylaws may discourage claims or limit shareholders’ ability to submit claims in a judicial forum that they find favorable, and may result in additional costs for a stockholder seeking to bring a claim. Additionally, with respect to our forum selection provision relating to claims made under the Securities Act, we note that, while Section 27 of the Exchange Act creates exclusive federal jurisdiction over claims brought to enforce a duty or liability created by the Exchange Act, Section 22 of the Securities Act creates concurrent jurisdiction for federal and state courts over all suits brought to enforce any duty or liability created by the Securities Act. As noted above, our bylaws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, U.S. federal district courts will be the exclusive forum for the resolution of any complaint asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act except where the provision or its application is deemed illegal, invalid or unenforceable, in which case the exclusive forum for the action will be the Delaware Court of Chancery. While we believe the risk of a court declining to enforce our forum selection provisions is low, if a court were to determine either forum selection provision to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable in a particular action, we may incur additional costs in conjunction with our efforts to resolve the dispute in an alternative jurisdiction or multiple jurisdictions, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition and result in a diversion of the time and resources of our management and board of directors. We face substantial legal and operational risks in safeguarding personal information. Our businesses are subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations governing the privacy and protection of personal information of individuals. Individuals whose personal information may be protected by law can include our customers (and in some cases our customers’ customers), prospective customers, job applicants, employees, and the employees of our vendors, and third parties. Complying with the laws, rules and regulations applicable to our disclosure, collection, use, sharing and storage of personal information can increase operating costs, impact the development of new products or services, and reduce operational efficiency. Any mishandling or misuse or personal information by us or third party affiliated with us could expose us to litigation or regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions. Additional risks could arise from our or third parties' failure to provide adequate disclosure or transparency to our customers about the personal information collected from them and the use of such information; to receive, document, and honor the privacy preferences expressed by our customers; to protect personal information from unauthorized disclosure; or to maintain proper training on privacy practices for all employees or third parties who have access to personal information. Concerns regarding the effectiveness of our measures to safeguard personal information, or even the perception that those measures are inadequate, could cause us to lose existing or potential clients and customers, and thereby reduce our revenues. Furthermore, any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws, rules and regulations may subject it to inquiries, examinations and investigations that could result in requirements to modify or cease certain operations or practices, significant liabilities or regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions. Any of these could damage our reputation and otherwise adversely affect our businesses. In recent years, well-publicized incidents involving the inappropriate collection, use, sharing or storage of personal information have led to expanded governmental scrutiny of practices relating to the safeguarding of personal information by companies. That scrutiny has in some cases resulted in, and could in the future lead to, the adoption of stricter laws, rules and regulations relating to the collection, use, sharing and storage of personal information. We will likely be subject to new and evolving data privacy laws in the U.S. and abroad, which could result in additional costs of compliance, litigation, regulatory 37 Table of Contents fines, and enforcement actions. These types of laws, rules and regulations could prohibit or significantly restrict financial services firms such as us from sharing information among affiliates or with third parties such as vendors, and thereby increase compliance costs, or could restrict our use of personal data when developing or offering products or services to customers. These restrictions could also inhibit our development or marketing of certain products or services, or increase the costs of offering them to customers. Differences in regulation can affect our ability to compete effectively. The content and application of laws and regulations affecting financial services firms sometimes vary according to factors such as the size of the firm, the jurisdiction in which it is organized or operates, and other criteria. Financial technology companies and other non-traditional competitors may not be subject to banking regulation, or may be supervised by a national or state regulatory agency that does not have the same regulatory priorities or supervisory requirements as our regulators. These differences in regulation can impair our ability to compete effectively with competitors that are less regulated that do not have similar compliance costs. Talent Management Risks Our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees. Our success depends, in part, on our executive officers and other key personnel. The market for qualified individuals is highly competitive, and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel or candidates to replace or succeed members of our senior management team or other key personnel.  As a large financial and banking institution, we may be subject to limitations on compensation practices, which may or may not affect our competitors, by the Federal Reserve, the FDIC or other regulators. These limitations could further affect our ability to attract and retain our executive officers and other key personnel, in particular as we are more often competing for personnel with fintechs, technology companies and other less regulated entities who may not have the same limitations on compensation as we do. The increase in remote work arrangements and opportunities in regional, national and global labor markets has also increased competition to attract and retain skilled personnel. Our current or future approach to in-office and remote-work arrangements may not meet the needs or expectations of our current or prospective employees or may not be perceived as favorable as the arrangements offered by other employers, which could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees. Our operations rely on its ability, and the ability of key external parties, to maintain appropriately-staffed workforces, and on the competence, trustworthiness, health and safety of employees. Our ability to operate our businesses efficiently and profitably, to offer products and services that meet the expectations of our clients and customers, and to maintain an effective risk management framework is highly dependent on our ability to staff its operations appropriately and on the competence, integrity, health and safety of our employees. We are similarly dependent on the workforces of other parties on which our operations rely, including vendors and other service providers. Our businesses could be materially and adversely affected by the ineffective implementation of business decisions; any failure to institute controls that appropriately address risks associated with business activities; or appropriately train employees with respect to those risks and controls; staffing shortages, particularly in tight labor markets. In addition, our business could be adversely impacted by a significant operational breakdown or failure, theft, fraud or other unlawful conduct, or other negative outcomes caused by human error or misconduct by an employee of us or of another party on which our operations depend. Our operations could also be impaired if the measures taken by us or by governmental authorities to help ensure the health and safety of our employees are ineffective, or if any external party on which we rely fails to take appropriate and effective actions to protect the health and safety of its employees. Risks Related to Estimates and Assumptions Our reported financial results depend on management’s selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and estimates. Our accounting policies and assumptions are fundamental to our reported financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with GAAP and reflect management’s judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet may result in us reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative. Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting our reported financial condition and results of operations. They require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. The Company’s critical accounting estimates include: the allowance for credit losses; fair value measurements; intangible assets; residential MSRs; and income taxes. Because of the uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, we may be required to do one or more of the following: significantly increase the allowance for credit losses and/or sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the allowance provided; recognize significant losses on assets carried at fair value; recognize significant impairment on our 38 Table of Contents goodwill, other intangible assets or deferred tax asset balances; significantly increase our accrued income taxes; or significantly decrease the value of our residential MSRs. Any of these actions could adversely affect our reported financial condition and results of operations. If the models that we use in our business perform poorly or provide inadequate information, our business or results of operations may be adversely affected. We utilize quantitative models, machine learning models, and artificial intelligence models to assist in measuring risks and estimating or predicting certain financial values. Models may be used in processes such as determining the pricing of various products, grading loans and extending credit, measuring interest rate and other market risks, forecasting financial performance, predicting losses, improving customer services, maintaining adherence to laws and regulations, assessing capital adequacy, calculating regulatory capital levels, preventing fraud, strengthening customer authentication processes, generating marketing analytics, prospecting leads, and estimating the value of financial instruments and balance sheet items. Poorly designed, implemented, or managed models present the risk that our business decisions that consider information based on such models will be adversely affected due to the inadequacy or inaccuracy of that information, which may lead to losses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our reported financial condition and results of operations. Also, information we provide to the public or to our regulators based on poorly designed, implemented, or managed models could be inaccurate or misleading. Some of the decisions that our regulators make, including those related to capital distributions to our shareholders, could be affected adversely due to the perception that the quality of the models used to generate the relevant information is insufficient. Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. From time to time, the FASB and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. For example, FASB’s CECL accounting standard became effective on January 1, 2020 and substantially changed the accounting for credit losses on loans and other financial assets held by banks, financial institutions and other organizations. The standard had a material impact to our allowance and capital at adoption.  See Regions' impact at adoption in Note 1 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the consolidated financial statements of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. The value of our goodwill and other intangible assets may decline in the future. As of December 31, 2022, we had $5.7 billion of goodwill and $ 249 million of other intangible assets. A significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower economic growth or a significant and sustained decline in the price of our common stock, any or all of which could be materially impacted by many of the risk factors discussed herein, may necessitate our taking charges in the future related to the impairment of our goodwill.  Future regulatory actions and increases in income tax rates could also have a material impact on assessments of goodwill for impairment. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of our goodwill is necessary, we would record the appropriate charge, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Identifiable intangible assets other than goodwill consist primarily of relationship assets, purchased credit card relationship assets, and agency commercial real estate licenses. Adverse events or circumstances could impact the recoverability of these intangible assets including loss of core deposits, losses of broker and contractor relationships, significant losses of credit card accounts and/or balances, increased competition and adverse changes in the economy. To the extent these intangible assets are deemed unrecoverable, a non-cash impairment charge would be recorded, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Other External Risks Our business and financial performance could be adversely affected by a U.S. government debt default or the threat of such a default. A U.S. government debt default would have material adverse impact on our business and financial performance, including a decrease in the value of Treasury bonds and other government securities held by us, which could negatively impact our capital position and our ability to meet regulatory requirements. Other negative impacts could be volatile capital markets, an adverse impact on the U.S. economy and the U.S. dollar, as well as increased default rates among borrowers in light of increased economic uncertainty. Some of these impacts might occur even in the absence of an actual default but as a consequence of extended political negotiations around the threat of such a default and a government shutdown. Our business, financial condition, liquidity, capital and results of operations have been, and will likely continue to be, adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and may, in the future also be affected by other pandemics. The COVID-19 pandemic created disruptions that have adversely affected our business, financial condition, liquidity, capital and results of operations.  The nature and extent of any ongoing or future adverse effects from COVID-19 or any future similar pandemics will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and outside our control, including its impact on our employees, clients, customers, counterparties and service providers, as well as other market participants. 39 Table of Contents Circumstances brought about by the pandemics may include supply chain disruptions, labor shortages, increased market volatility, credit deterioration and defaults, and increased spending on business continuity efforts, which may require that we reduce costs and investments in other areas. We may face additional circumstances such as significant draws on credit lines should customers seek to increase liquidity. Weather-related events and other natural or man-made disasters could cause a disruption in our operations or lead to other consequences that could adversely impact our financial results and condition. These impacts could be intensified by climate change. Heightening focus on climate change may also carry transition risks that could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Weather-related events, other natural or man-made disasters, climate change and the transition to a lower-carbon economy pose shorter- and longer-term risks to our business and/or that of our customers, vendors and suppliers and are expected to increase over time. A significant portion of our operations is located in the areas bordering the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean, regions that are susceptible to hurricanes, or in areas of the Southeastern U.S. that are susceptible to tornadoes and other severe weather events. In particular, in recent years, a number of severe hurricanes impacted areas in our footprint. Many areas in the Southeastern U.S. have also experienced severe droughts and floods in recent years. Any of these, or any other severe weather event, could cause disruption to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall business, results of operations or financial condition. We have taken certain preemptive measures that we believe will mitigate these adverse effects, such as maintaining insurance that includes coverage for resultant losses and expenses. However, such measures cannot predict the nature, timing, or level of severe weather events or prevent the disruption that a catastrophic earthquake, fire, hurricane, tornado or other severe weather event could cause to the markets that we serve and any resulting adverse impact on our customers, such as hindering our borrowers’ ability to timely repay their loans and diminishing the value of any collateral held by us. Man-made disasters and other events connected with the Gulf of Mexico or Atlantic Ocean, such as oil spills, could have similar effects. Climate change could intensify the severity of and increase the frequency of adverse effects of weather-related events impacting us and our customers. Namely, climate change may intensify the severity of and increase the frequency of earthquakes, fires, hurricanes, tornadoes, droughts, floods and other weather-related events, which could cause even greater disruption to our business and operations. Longer-term changes, such as increasing average temperatures and rising sea levels, may damage, destroy or otherwise impact the value or productivity of our properties and other assets, reduce the availability of insurance, and/or lead to prolonged disruptions in our operations. Responding to concerns around climate change provides us with potential new avenues through which we can support our stakeholders but also exposes us to risks associated with the transition to a lower-carbon economy. Such risks may result from changes in policies, laws and regulations, technologies, or market preferences that are intended to address climate change. These changes could materially and negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and our reputation, in addition to having a similar impact on our customers, vendors and suppliers. Federal and state regulatory authorities, investors and other third parties have increasingly scrutinized the business activities of  financial institutions and the relationship of those activities to climate change, which may result in financial institutions facing increased pressure regarding the disclosure and management of climate risks and related lending and investment activities. Relatedly, we may face increased scrutiny related to our ability to demonstrate resilience to potential climate-related risks, including systemic risks posed by operational disruptions and external demands. Ongoing legislative or regulatory uncertainties and changes regarding climate risk management and practices may result in higher regulatory, compliance, credit and reputational risks and costs. In addition, the transition to a lower-carbon economy could indirectly subject us to specific risks through our borrowers' exposure to changes in commodity prices. For more information see the "We are subject to environmental, social and governance risks that could adversely affect our reputation and the trading price of our common stock" and “Weakness in commodity businesses could adversely affect our performance” risk factors below. 40 Table of Contents

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW Management believes the following sections provide an overview of several of the most relevant matters necessary for an understanding of the financial aspects of Regions's business, particularly regarding its 2022 results. Cross references to more detailed information regarding each topic within MD&A and the consolidated financial statements are included. This summary is intended to assist in understanding the information provided, but should be read in conjunction with the entire MD&A and consolidated financial statements, as well as the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Economic Environment in Regions’ Banking Markets One of the primary factors influencing the credit performance of Regions’ loan portfolio is the overall economic environment in the U.S. and the primary markets in which it operates. After full-year 2022 real GDP growth of 2.1 percent, the January 2023 baseline forecast anticipates real GDP growth of 1.1 percent in 2023 and 1.5 percent in 2024. As 2022 came to a close, many of the distortions stemming from the pandemic and the policy response to it that had impacted the economy for the prior two years were fading while interest-sensitive sectors of the economy were impacted by the effects of significant increases in market interest rates in 2022. Regions continues to expect that by late-2024 the economy will be back on the path of growth around 2.0 percent that prevailed prior to the pandemic. As has been the case since the onset of the pandemic, however, there remains a heightened degree of uncertainty around current economic forecasts. Many businesses across a broad range of industry groups are struggling to ascertain the level of underlying demand as 2023 begins. Firms who produce goods or provide services to consumers saw robust growth in demand from the second half of 2020 through much of 2022, reflecting in part financial transfers as part of the policy response to the pandemic and in part by a faster pace of wage growth. Consumer demand for goods began to waver over the second half of 2022, and while faster growth in consumer spending on services took up that slack, services spending is expected to slow in 2023. Firms who produce goods or provide services to firms saw robust growth in demand from late-2020 through much of 2022, which was mainly a reflection of two factors. First, firms rushed to fill in the gaps left by production having been disrupted by the effects of the pandemic on the labor market, supply chains, and shipping networks. Second, firms built up inventories to levels higher than were considered normal prior to the pandemic, as a hedge against further supply chain/labor supply disruptions. Much of that catch-up or precautionary demand began to wane in late-2022 with order backlogs having been worked down and inventories having been built up. With the robust growth in demand seen over much of the past two years having subsided, firms are left trying to gauge underlying demand and, in turn, appropriate levels of staffing and capital spending. In areas such as retail trade, warehousing/distribution, and technology, many firms were not anticipating a drop-off in demand and are now adjusting to lower than anticipated demand by laying off workers and decreasing capital budgets. Other firms are reassessing planned levels of staffing and capital outlays. Subsiding demand is likely to be an ongoing challenge through much of 2023, as a period of elevated inflation and rising interest rates has had an impact on the demand side of the economy and on consumer and business confidence. While supply chain stresses have eased considerably, they have not yet fully cleared, but with the demand side of the economy easing, any lingering supply chain stresses are not as disruptive to businesses as has been the case over the past two years. One sector still being impacted is residential construction, with many builders still having difficulty sourcing building materials. While higher mortgage interest rates contributed to steep declines in home sales, builders were still sitting on sizable backlogs of unfilled orders and units in various phases of construction. This has put a floor under demand for construction materials and supplies, thus helping sustain supply-side stresses. With a slower pace of growth in consumer spending, businesses scaling down planned growth in capital expenditures, and growth in residential construction remaining weighed down by higher mortgage interest rates, the overall pace of economic activity in 2023 is expected to be considerably slower than the pace seen over the second half of 2022. This will be accompanied by a marked slowdown in the pace of job growth, which will likely fall below the pace required to keep the jobless rate steady. The pace of job growth slowed steadily over the second half of 2022 but remained more than sufficient to keep the unemployment rate from rising. Moreover, there were over ten million open jobs across the U.S. economy as 2022 came to a close. Given the well below-trend pace of real GDP growth anticipated over the next several quarters, Regions expects the demand for labor to decline, but there is uncertainty in how that will manifest itself. Regions expects a meaningfully slower pace of job growth coupled with a significant decline in job vacancies, with firms also resorting to reducing hours worked by current workers as a lever with which to manage total labor input. Regions believes that, given how hard and costly it has been for firms to attract and retain labor, firms will be unlikely to lay workers off in large numbers. While there were several high-profile announcements of layoffs as 2022 came to a close, the collective number of layoffs was a minute share of total nonfarm employment, and those workers losing jobs were able to find new positions relatively quickly. The rate of layoffs and discharges, measured as a share of total nonfarm employment, was still below pre-pandemic norms at year-end 2022. That 45 Table of Contents Regions expects the unemployment rate to rise over coming quarters is more a reflection of diminished hiring than of widespread layoffs. As labor demand becomes more closely aligned with labor supply, growth in hourly wages and in total labor compensation costs will slow. As measured by the CPI, inflation rose to 8.0 percent in 2022, the highest annual rate since 1981, with an intra-year peak rate of 9.1 percent. Inflation did decelerate over the second half of the year, in part due to what by year-end 2022 were falling prices for core consumer goods (consumer goods excluding food and energy). Services price inflation proved to be more persistent, but there were signs that it too was decelerating by year-end 2022. While the Company expects inflation to decelerate further over the course of 2023, it also expects it to end the year above the FOMC’s 2.0 percent target rate. The FOMC, however, does not yet feel confident that inflation is on a one-way track lower and, to that point, as China’s economy comes back online in 2023 there could be a new round of upward pressure on energy and commodity prices. That would in turn push headline inflation higher but, even should that prove to be the case, Regions looks for core inflation to decelerate. Regions expects 25-basis point increases in the Fed funds rate at the first two FOMC meetings of 2023, after which the expectation is for the FOMC to remain on hold. At present Regions does not expect the FOMC to cut the Fed funds rate in 2023. At the same time, the FOMC will continue to let the Fed balance sheet wind down as maturing assets are allowed to run off the balance sheet. A number of states within the footprint have seen heightened flows of domestic in-migration since the onset of the pandemic, which has resulted in more rapid rates of job growth and more rapid growth in housing costs. It is likely that migration patterns will shift in 2023 as the broader economy and the labor market slow. That Regions' footprint has an above-average exposure to manufacturing means it could feel the contraction in the manufacturing sector more acutely, but the larger, more industrially diverse areas of the footprint are expected to continue to outperform. The continued economic uncertainty, as described above, impacted Regions' forecast utilized in calculating the ACL as of December 31, 2022. See the "Allowance" section for further information. 2022 Results Regions reported net income available to common shareholders of $2.1 billion or $2.28 per diluted share in 2022 compared to net income available to common shareholders of $2.4 billion or $2.49 per diluted share in 2021. Net interest income (taxable-equivalent basis) totaled $4.8 billion in 2022 compared to $4.0 billion in 2021. The net interest margin (taxable-equivalent basis) was 3.36 percent in 2022, reflecting a 51 basis point increase from 2021. The increase in net interest income was primarily driven by an increase in market interest rates, average loan growth, which includes consumer home improvement loans from the fourth quarter 2021 acquisition of EnerBank, and a larger average securities portfolio. Modest increases in interest expense on deposits and long-term borrowings partially offset the increase in interest income. The increase in net interest margin was primarily driven by higher market interest rates and the addition of higher-yielding consumer home improvement loans from the acquisition of EnerBank in the fourth quarter of 2021. The provision for credit losses totaled $271 million in 2022 compared to a benefit from credit losses of $524 million in 2021. The provision for credit losses was higher than net charge-offs by $8 million in 2022. The increase in the provision for credit losses was driven primarily by economic conditions, normalizing asset quality, and loan growth. Refer to the "Allowance for Credit Losses" section of Management's Discussion and Analysis for further detail. Non-interest income was $2.4 billion in 2022 compared to $2.5 billion in 2021. The decrease was primarily driven by lower mortgage income and unfavorable market valuation adjustments on employee benefit assets. Non-interest income also includes insurance proceeds related to a settlement reached with the CFPB during the third quarter of 2022. See Table 4 "Non-Interest Income" for further details. Non-interest expense was $4.1 billion in 2022 and $3.7 billion in 2021. The increase was driven by several expense categories, primarily salaries and employee benefits expense and professional, legal and regulatory expenses. The increase in professional, legal and regulatory expenses is related to the settlement with the CFPB discussed previously. These increases were partially offset by a loss on early extinguishment of debt in 2021. See Table 5 "Non-Interest Expense" for further details. Regions' effective tax rate was 22.0 percent in 2022 compared to 21.6 percent in 2021. See the "Income Taxes" section for further details. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10-K: • "Operating Results" section of MD&A • “Net Interest Income and Net Interest Margin” discussion within the “Operating Results” section of MD&A • “Interest Rate Risk” discussion within the “Risk Management” section of MD&A 46 Table of Contents Capital Capital Actions Regions participates in supervisory stress testing conducted by the Federal Reserve and its SCB is currently floored at 2.5 percent. See Note 14 "Shareholders' Equity and Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)" to the consolidated financial statements for further details regarding CCAR results. As part of the Company's capital plan, on April 21, 2021, the Board authorized the repurchase of up to $2.5 billion of the Company's common stock, permitting purchases from the second quarter of 2021 through the first quarter of 2022. On April 20, 2022, The Board authorized the repurchase of up to $2.5 billion of the Company's common stock, permitting purchases from the second quarter of 2022 through the fourth quarter of 2024. In 2022, Regions repurchased approximately 8 million shares of common stock under these programs, which reduced shareholders' equity by $230 million. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10-K: • "Shareholders' Equity" discussion in MD&A • "Regulatory Requirements" section of MD&A • Note 14 "Shareholders' Equity and Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)" to the consolidated financial statements Regulatory Capital Regions and Regions Bank are required to comply with regulatory capital requirements established by Federal and State banking agencies. Under the Basel III Rules, Regions is designated as a standardized approach bank. The Basel III Rules maintain the minimum guidelines for Regions to be considered well-capitalized for Tier 1 capital and Total capital at 6.0% and 10.0%, respectively. At December 31, 2022, Regions’ Tier 1 capital and Total capital ratios were estimated to be 10.91% and 12.54%, respectively. The Basel III Rules also officially defined CET1. Regions' CET1 ratio at December 31, 2022 was estimated to be 9.60%. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10-K: • “Supervision and Regulation” discussion within Item 1. Business • "Regulatory Requirements" section of MD&A • Note 12 "Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions" to the consolidated financial statements Loan Portfolio and Credit During 2022, total loans increased by $9.2 billion or 10.5 percent compared to 2021. The increase was primarily driven by an increase in the commercial portfolio of $7.0 billion, demonstrating significant growth through new loan production and an increase in line utilization. Also contributing to the increase was growth in the investor real estate and consumer portfolios of $1.4 billion and $876 million, respectively. The economy has been and will continue to be the primary factor which influences Regions’ loan portfolio. Refer to the "Portfolio Characteristics" section for further discussion. Net charge-offs totaled $263 million, or 0.29 percent of average loans, in 2022, compared to $204 million, or 0.24 percent in 2021, reflecting increased net charge-offs in the other consumer loan portfolio driven by the sale of unsecured consumer loans at the end of the third quarter of 2022 and a full year of EnerBank charge-offs. Partially offsetting the increase were declines in the commercial and industrial and investor real estate mortgage charge-offs. The allowance was 1.63 percent of total loans, net of unearned income at December 31, 2022, a decrease from 1.79 percent at December 31, 2021. The coverage ratio of allowance to non-performing loans excluding held for sale was 317 percent at December 31, 2022, compared to 349 percent at December 31, 2021. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10-K: • Adjusted Net Charge-offs within the Table 1 "GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations" • "Portfolio Characteristics" section of MD&A • “Allowance for Credit Losses” discussion within the “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” section of  MD&A • “Provision for Credit Losses” discussion within the “Operating Results” section of MD&A • “Loans,” “Allowance for Credit Losses,” “Troubled Debt Restructurings” and “Non-performing Assets” discussions within the “Balance Sheet Analysis” section of MD&A • Note 4 "Loans" to the consolidated financial statements • Note 5 "Allowance for Credit Losses" to the consolidated financial statements 47 Table of Contents Liquidity At the end of 2022, Regions Bank had $9.2 billion in cash on deposit with the Federal Reserve and the loan-to-deposit ratio was 74 percent. Cash and cash equivalents at the parent company totaled $1.6 billion. Cash at the Federal Reserve declined from December 31, 2021 as the Company used cash balances to fund loan growth and experienced a decline in deposits due to normalizing pandemic liquidity. At December 31, 2022, the Company’s borrowing capacity with the Federal Reserve was $13.2 billion based on available collateral. Borrowing availability with the FHLB was $14.5 billion based on available collateral at the same date. Regions also maintains a shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that can be utilized by the Company to issue various debt and/or equity securities. Additionally, Regions' Board has authorized Regions Bank to issue up to $10 billion in aggregate principal amount of bank notes outstanding at any one time. Regions is required to conduct liquidity stress testing and measure its available sources of liquidity against minimums as established by Regions' internal liquidity policy. Regions was fully compliant with those requirements as of year-end. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10-K: • “Supervision and Regulation” discussion within Item 1. Business • “Borrowings” discussion within the “Balance Sheet Analysis” section of MD&A • “Regulatory Requirements” section of MD&A • “Liquidity” discussion within the “Risk Management” section of MD&A • Note 11 "Borrowed Funds" to the consolidated financial statements 2023 Expectations ______ (1) Expectation for CET1 is to manage near the upper end of a 9.25-9.75% operating range over the near term. (2) Expectation utilizes the December 31, 2022 forward interest rate curve. The reconciliation with respect to these forward-looking non-GAAP measures is expected to be consistent with the actual non-GAAP reconciliations within Management's Discussion and Analysis of this Form 10-K. For more information related to the Company's 2023 expectations, refer to the related sub-sections discussed in more detail within Management's Discussion and Analysis of this Form 10-K. GENERAL The following discussion and financial information is presented to aid in understanding Regions’ financial position and results of operations. The emphasis of this discussion will be on operations for the years 2022 and 2021; in addition, financial information for prior years will also be presented when appropriate. Regions’ profitability, like that of many other financial institutions, is dependent on its ability to generate revenue from net interest income as well as non-interest income sources. Net interest income is primarily the difference between the interest income Regions receives on interest-earning assets, such as loans, leases, investment securities and cash balances held at the FRB, and the interest expense Regions pays on interest-bearing liabilities, principally deposits and borrowings. Regions’ net interest income is impacted by the size and mix of its balance sheet components and the interest rate spread between interest earned on its assets and interest paid on its liabilities. Non-interest income includes fees from service charges on deposit accounts, card and ATM fees, mortgage servicing and secondary marketing, investment management and trust activities, capital markets and other customer services which Regions provides. Results of operations are also affected by the provision for credit losses and non-interest expenses such as salaries and employee benefits, equipment and software expenses, occupancy, professional, legal and regulatory expenses, FDIC insurance assessments, and other operating expenses, as well as income taxes. 48 Table of Contents Economic conditions, competition, new legislation and related rules impacting regulation of the financial services industry and the monetary and fiscal policies of the Federal government significantly affect most, if not all, financial institutions, including Regions. Lending and deposit activities and fee income generation are influenced by levels of business spending and investment, consumer income, consumer spending and savings, capital market activities, and competition among financial institutions, as well as customer preferences, interest rate conditions and prevailing market rates on competing products in Regions’ market areas. Regions’ business strategy is focused on providing a competitive mix of products and services, delivering quality customer service, and continuing to develop and optimize distribution channels that include a branch distribution network with offices in convenient locations, as well as electronic and mobile banking. Recent Acquisitions On December 17, 2021, Regions entered into an agreement to acquire Clearsight Advisors, Inc., a leading-edge mergers and acquisitions firm headquartered in McLean, Virginia. The transaction closed on December 31, 2021. On October 4, 2021, Regions entered into an agreement to acquire Sabal Capital Partners, LLC, a diversified financial services firm that facilitates lending in the small-balance commercial real estate market headquartered in Irvine, California. The transaction closed on December 1, 2021. Refer to the "Sabal Acquisition" section for more detail. On June 8, 2021, Regions entered into an agreement to acquire EnerBank, a consumer lending institution specializing in home improvement lending headquartered in Salt Lake City, Utah. The transaction closed on October 1, 2021, and resulted in the addition of approximately $3.1 billion in loans to consumers. Refer to the "EnerBank Acquisition" section for more detail. Business Segments Regions provides traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services, as well as other financial services in the fields of asset management, wealth management, securities brokerage, and other specialty financing. Regions carries out its strategies and derives its profitability from three reportable segments: Corporate Bank, Consumer Bank, and Wealth Management, with the remainder in Other. See Note 22 "Business Segment Information" to the consolidated financial statements for further information on Regions’ business segments. NON-GAAP MEASURES The table below presents computations of earnings and certain other financial measures, which excludes certain adjustments that are included in the financial results presented in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures include "adjusted net loan charge-offs", "adjusted net loan charge-offs as a percent of average loans, annualized", “adjusted non-interest expense", "adjusted non-interest income", "adjusted total revenue", "adjusted total revenue, taxable-equivalent basis", and "adjusted operating leverage ratio". Regions believes that excluding certain items provides a meaningful base for period-to-period comparison, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions’ business because management does not consider the activities related to the adjustments to be indications of ongoing operations. Regions believes that presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management. Management and the Board utilize these non-GAAP financial measures as follows: • Preparation of Regions’ operating budgets • Monthly financial performance reporting • Monthly close-out reporting of consolidated results • Presentations to investors of Company performance • Metrics for incentive compensation Net loan charge-offs (GAAP) are presented excluding adjustments to arrive at adjusted net loan-charge offs (non-GAAP). Adjusted net loan charge-offs as a percentage of average loans (non-GAAP) are calculated as adjusted net loan charge-offs (non-GAAP) divided by average loans (GAAP) and annualized. Non-interest expense (GAAP) is presented excluding adjustments to arrive at adjusted non-interest expense (non-GAAP). Net interest income (GAAP) is presented with taxable-equivalent adjustments to arrive at net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis (GAAP). Non-interest income (GAAP) is presented excluding adjustments to arrive at adjusted non-interest income (non-GAAP). Net interest income (GAAP) and adjusted non-interest income (non-GAAP) are added together to arrive at adjusted total revenue (non-GAAP). Net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis (GAAP) and adjusted non-interest income (non-GAAP) are added together to arrive at adjusted total revenue on a taxable-equivalent basis (non-GAAP). The adjusted operating leverage ratio (non-GAAP), which is a measure of productivity, is calculated as the year over year percentage change in adjusted total revenue on a taxable- 49 Table of Contents equivalent basis (non-GAAP) less the year over year percentage change in adjusted total non-interest expense (non-GAAP). Management uses this ratio to monitor performance and believes it provides meaningful information to investors. Non-GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. Although these non-GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP. In particular, a measure of earnings that excludes selected items does not represent the amount that effectively accrues directly to shareholders. The following table provides: 1) a reconciliation of net loan charge-offs (GAAP) to adjusted net loan charge-offs (non-GAAP), 2) a computation of adjusted net loan charge-offs as a percentage of average loans, annualized (non-GAAP), 3) a reconciliation of non-interest expense (GAAP) to adjusted non-interest expense (non-GAAP), 4) a reconciliation of non-interest income (GAAP) to adjusted non-interest income (non-GAAP), 5) a computation of adjusted total revenue (non-GAAP), 6) a computation of adjusted total revenue on a taxable-equivalent basis (non-GAAP) and 7) presentation of the operating leverage ratio (GAAP) and the adjusted operating leverage ratio (non-GAAP). Table 1—GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations _____ (1) At the end of the third quarter of 2022, the Company made the strategic decision to sell certain unsecured consumer loans. These loans were marked down to fair value through net charge-offs. (2) Amounts have been calculated using whole dollar values. 50 Table of Contents _________ (1) The 2022 professional, legal and regulatory expense is related to the settlement of a previously disclosed matter with the CFPB. The Company received insurance proceeds related to this settlement. The 2021 and 2020 professional, legal and regulatory expenses are related to professional and legal expenses for acquisitions. (2) The 2021 amount is related to an individual BOLI claim benefit. The 2020 amount is related to a gain on the exchange of  BOLI policies. (3) Amounts have been calculated using whole dollar values. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND RELATED POLICIES In preparing financial information, management is required to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses for the periods shown. The accounting principles followed by Regions and the methods of applying these principles conform with GAAP, regulatory guidance, where applicable, and general banking practices. Estimates and assumptions most significant to Regions are related primarily to the allowance for credit losses, fair value measurements, intangible assets (goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets), residential MSRs and income taxes, and are summarized in the following discussion and in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses (“allowance”) consists of two components: the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. Unfunded credit commitments include items such as letters of credit, financial guarantees and binding unfunded loan commitments. Regions determines its allowance in accordance with GAAP and applicable regulatory guidance. See Note 1 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" and Note 5 "Allowance for Credit Losses" to the consolidated financial statements for information about areas of judgment and methodologies used in establishing the allowance. The allowance is sensitive to a number of internal factors, such as modifications in the mix and level of loan balances outstanding, portfolio performance and assigned risk ratings. The allowance is also sensitive to external factors such as the general health of the economy, as evidenced by changes in interest rates, inflation, GDP, unemployment rates, changes in real 51 Table of Contents estate demand and values, volatility in commodity prices, bankruptcy filings, health pandemics, government stimulus, and the effects of weather and natural disasters such as droughts, floods and hurricanes. Management considers these variables and all other available information when establishing the final level of the allowance. These variables and others have the ability to result in actual loan losses that differ from the originally estimated amounts. Changes in the factors used by management to determine the appropriateness of the allowance or the availability of new information could cause the allowance to be increased or decreased in future periods. In addition, bank regulatory agencies, as part of their examination process, may require changes in the level of allowance based on their judgments and estimates.  Volatility in certain credit metrics is to be expected. Additionally, changes in circumstances related to individually large credits, commodity prices, or certain macroeconomic forecast assumptions may result in volatility. The scenarios discussed below, or other scenarios, have the ability to result in actual credit losses that differ, perhaps materially, from the originally estimated amounts. This analysis is not intended to estimate changes in the overall allowance, which would also be influenced by the judgment management applies to the modeled loss estimates to reflect uncertainty and imprecision based on then-current circumstances and conditions. In June 2022, the FRB released its estimated modeled credit losses for Regions based on the December 31, 2021 balance sheet. The FRB estimated credit losses in its severely adverse scenario of $6.0 billion, or 6.9 percent. See the Federal Reserve stress test disclosures at "Item 1. Business - Capital Requirements"  for more information regarding their assumptions in this stress test. It is difficult to estimate how potential changes in any one economic factor might affect the overall allowance because a wide variety of factors and inputs are considered in the allowance estimate. Changes in the factors and inputs may not occur at the same rate and may not be consistent across all product types. Additionally, changes in factors and inputs may be directionally inconsistent, such that improvement in one factor may offset deterioration in others. However, to consider the impact of a hypothetical alternate economic forecast, Regions estimated the allowance using a scenario that was 1 standard deviation unfavorable to the expected scenario for each macroeconomic variable. This unfavorable scenario resulted in an allowance approximately 16 percent higher than the allowance using the expected scenario. Similar to the scenarios above, it is difficult to estimate how potential changes in credit risk factors might affect the overall allowance because of the wide variety of credit risk factors that are considered in estimating the allowance. Changes in risk ratings may not occur at the same rate and may not be consistent across product or industry types. Regions conducted a separate sensitivity analysis considering deteriorating conditions for commercial and investor real estate portfolio factors by stressing key portfolio drivers relative to the baseline portfolio conditions. Regions stressed risk ratings by one downgrade for commercial and investor real estate loans. This scenario generated an increase in the modeled allowance of approximately $144 million for the commercial and investor real estate portfolios. Fair Value Measurements A portion of the Company’s assets and liabilities is carried at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded either in earnings or accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). These include debt securities available for sale, mortgage loans held for sale, equity investments (with and without readily determinable market values), residential MSRs and derivative assets and liabilities. From time to time, the estimation of fair value also affects other loans held for sale, which are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. Fair value determination is also relevant for certain other assets such as foreclosed property and other real estate, which are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan/property or fair value, less estimated costs to sell the property. For example, the fair value of other real estate is determined based on recent appraisals by third parties and other market information, less estimated selling costs. Adjustments to the appraised value are made if management becomes aware of changes in the fair value of specific properties or property types. The determination of fair value also impacts certain other assets that are periodically evaluated for impairment using fair value estimates, including goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. Fair value is generally defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) as opposed to the price that would be paid to acquire the asset or received to assume the liability (an entry price), in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. While management uses judgment when determining the price at which willing market participants would transact when there has been a significant decrease in the volume or level of activity for the asset or liability in relation to “normal” market activity, management’s objective is to determine the point within the range of fair value estimates that is most representative of a sale to a third-party investor under current market conditions. The value to the Company if the asset or liability were held to maturity is not included in the fair value estimates. A fair value measure should reflect the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, including the assumptions about the risk inherent in a particular valuation technique, the effect of a restriction on the sale or use of an asset and the risk of nonperformance. Fair value is measured based on a variety of inputs the Company utilizes. Fair value may be based on quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities traded in active markets (Level 1 valuations). If market 52 Table of Contents prices are not available, quoted market prices for similar instruments traded in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active and model-based valuation techniques for which all significant assumptions are observable in the market are used (Level 2 valuations). Where observable market data is not available, the valuation is generated from model-based techniques that use significant assumptions not observable in the market, but observable based on Company-specific data (Level 3 valuations). These unobservable assumptions reflect the Company’s own estimates for assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Valuation techniques typically include option pricing models, discounted cash flow models and similar techniques, but may also include the use of market prices of assets or liabilities that are not directly comparable to the subject asset or liability. See Note 1 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the consolidated financial statements for a detailed discussion of determining fair value, including pricing validation processes. Intangible Assets Regions’ intangible assets consist primarily of the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets of acquired businesses (“goodwill”) and other identifiable intangible assets (primarily relationship assets, agency commercial real estate licenses and purchased credit card relationships). Goodwill totaled $5.7 billion at both December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021. Goodwill is allocated to each of Regions’ reportable segments (each a reporting unit: Corporate Bank, Consumer Bank, and Wealth Management). Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis as of October 1 or more often if events and circumstances indicate impairment may exist (refer to Note 1 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion). Accounting guidance permits the Company to first assess qualitative factors to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value. If, based on the weight of the evidence, the Company determines it is more likely than not that the fair value exceeds book value, then an impairment test is not necessary. If the Company elects to bypass the qualitative assessment, or concludes that it is more likely than not that the fair value is less than the carrying value, an impairment test is performed. The estimated fair value of the reporting unit is compared to its carrying amount, including goodwill. To the extent that the estimated fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value, impairment is not indicated. Conversely, if the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is below its carrying amount, a loss (which could be material) would be recognized to reduce the carrying amount to the estimated fair value. The carrying value of equity for each reporting unit is determined from an allocation based upon risk weighted assets. Adverse changes in the economic environment, declining operations of the reporting unit, or other factors could result in a decline in the estimated implied fair value of goodwill. The Company completed its annual goodwill impairment test as of October 1, 2022, by performing a qualitative assessment of goodwill at the reporting unit level to determine whether any indicators of impairment existed.  In performing the qualitative assessment, the Company evaluated events and circumstances since the last impairment analysis, recent operating performance including reporting unit performance, changes in market capitalization, regulatory actions and assessments, changes in the business climate, company-specific factors, and trends in the banking industry.  After assessing the totality of the events and circumstances, the Company determined that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the Corporate Bank, Consumer Bank, and Wealth Management reporting units exceed their respective carrying values. Therefore, a quantitative impairment test was deemed unnecessary. Refer to Note 9 "Intangible Assets" to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of goodwill. Specific factors as of the date of filing the financial statements that could negatively impact the assumptions used in assessing goodwill for impairment include: a protracted decline in the Company’s market capitalization; adverse business trends resulting from litigation and/or regulatory actions; higher loan losses; forecasts of high unemployment levels; future increased minimum regulatory capital requirements above current thresholds (refer to Note 12 "Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions" to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of current minimum regulatory requirements); future federal rules and regulations (e.g., such as those resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act); and/or a significant protraction in the current level of interest rates. Other identifiable intangible assets such as relationship assets, agency commercial real estate licenses and purchased credit card relationships, are reviewed at least annually (usually in the fourth quarter) for events or circumstances which could impact the recoverability of the intangible asset. These events could include loss of customer relationships, significant losses of credit card accounts and/or balances, increased competition or adverse changes in the economy. To the extent an other identifiable intangible asset is deemed unrecoverable, an impairment loss would be recorded to reduce the carrying amount. These events or circumstances, if they occur, could be material to Regions’ operating results for any particular reporting period but the potential impact cannot be reasonably estimated. As of December 31, 2022, the Company’s review indicated there was no impairment in the value of the intangible assets. Residential Mortgage Servicing Rights Regions has elected to measure and report its residential MSRs using the fair value method. Although sales of residential MSRs do occur, residential MSRs do not trade in an active market with readily observable market prices and the exact terms 53 Table of Contents and conditions of sales may not be readily available, and are therefore Level 3 valuations in the fair value hierarchy previously discussed in the "Fair Value Measurements" section. Specific characteristics of the underlying loans greatly impact the estimated value of the related residential MSRs. As a result, Regions stratifies its residential mortgage servicing portfolio on the basis of certain risk characteristics, including loan type and contractual note rate, and values its residential MSRs using discounted cash flow modeling techniques. These techniques require management to make estimates regarding future net servicing cash flows, taking into consideration historical and forecasted residential mortgage loan prepayment rates, discount rates, escrow balances and servicing costs. Changes in interest rates, prepayment speeds or other factors impact the fair value of residential MSRs which impacts earnings. The carrying value of residential MSRs was $812 million at December 31, 2022. Based on a hypothetical sensitivity analysis, Regions estimates that a reduction in benchmark interest rates of 25 basis points and 50 basis points would reduce the December 31, 2022 fair value of residential MSRs by approximately 1 percent ($10 million) and 3 percent ($22 million), respectively. Conversely, 25 basis point and 50 basis point increases in these rates would increase the December 31, 2022 fair value of residential MSRs by approximately 1 percent ($9 million) and 2 percent ($17 million), respectively. Regions also estimates that an increase in servicing costs of approximately $10 per loan, or 16 percent, would result in a decline in the value of the residential MSRs by approximately $26 million. The pro forma fair value analyses presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of fair values to hypothetical changes in primary mortgage rates and servicing costs. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. Refer to Note 6 "Servicing of Financial Assets" to the consolidated financial statements for additional disclosure on residential mortgage servicing rights. Income Taxes Accrued income taxes are reported as a component of either other assets or other liabilities, as appropriate, in the consolidated balance sheets and reflect management’s estimate of income taxes to be paid or received. The Company is subject to income tax in the U.S. and multiple state and local jurisdictions. The tax laws and regulations in each jurisdiction are complex and may be subject to different interpretations by the Company and the relevant government taxing authorities. Therefore, the Company is required to exercise judgment in determining tax accruals and evaluating the Company’s tax positions, including evaluating uncertain tax positions. Deferred income taxes represent the amount of future income taxes to be paid or received and are accounted for using the asset and liability method with the net balance reported in other assets or other liabilities, as appropriate, in the consolidated balance sheets. The Company determines the realization of deferred tax assets by considering all positive and negative evidence available, including the impact of recent operating results, future reversals of taxable temporary differences, future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards and tax planning strategies. In projecting future taxable income, the Company utilizes forecasted pre-tax earnings, adjusts for the estimated temporary differences and incorporates assumptions, including the amounts of income allocable to taxing jurisdictions. Determining whether deferred tax assets are realizable is subjective and requires the use of significant judgment. A valuation allowance is provided when it is more-likely-than-not that some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. The Company currently maintains a valuation allowance for certain state carryforwards. The Company’s estimate of accrued income taxes, deferred income taxes and income tax expense can also change in any period as a result of new legislative or judicial guidance impacting tax positions, as well as changes in income tax rates and changes in operating activities. Any changes, if they occur, can be significant to the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. See Note 1 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" and Note 19 "Income Taxes" to the consolidated financial statements for further details and discussion. OPERATING RESULTS NET INTEREST INCOME AND NET INTEREST MARGIN Net interest income is Regions’ principal source of income and is one of the most important elements of Regions’ ability to meet its overall performance goals. Both net interest income and net interest margin are influenced by market interest rates and in 2022, the FOMC increased the Fed funds rate by 425 basis points during the twelve months ended December 31, 2022. Net interest income (taxable-equivalent basis) increased by $875 million in 2022 compared to 2021, and net interest margin increased by 51 basis points to 3.36 percent in 2022. The increases in net interest income and net interest margin were driven primarily by higher interest rates and the addition of higher-yielding consumer home improvement loans from the acquisition of EnerBank in the fourth quarter of 2021. Growth in average loan and average securities portfolio balances also contributed to the increase in net interest income. A decline in average cash balances, as a result of loan growth and a decline in deposits due to normalizing pandemic liquidity, also contributed to the increase in net interest margin. Increases in average interest-bearing deposit balances and costs partially offset the increases in net interest income and net interest margin, and a decline in PPP forgiveness income in 2022 also impacted net interest income. 54 Table of Contents Regions' asset yields in 2022 were impacted by the high interest rate environment. The loan portfolio yield increased to 4.46 percent in 2022 from 4.11 percent in 2021. The Company's loan yields are primarily influenced by short-term interest rates such as 30-day LIBOR, which averaged 1.92 percent in 2022 compared to 0.10 percent in 2021. The increase in loan yields includes the transfer from higher cash-flow hedge income in 2021 to higher loan product yields in 2022, and is also attributable to the rise in short-term rates. Additionally, fixed-rate lending production and investment securities portfolio reinvestment, which contains significant residential fixed-rate exposure, benefited from higher long-term rates. The investment securities portfolio increased in yield to 2.20 percent in 2022 from 1.86 percent in 2021. Funding costs remained well-controlled, but increased in 2022 to 0.23 percent compared to 0.12 percent in 2021. Deposit costs increased to 14 basis points for 2022 compared to 5 basis points for 2021 due primarily to higher interest rates coupled with a higher interest-bearing balance mix. See also the "Market Risk-Interest Rate Risk" section in Management's Discussion and Analysis for additional information. Table 2 "Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis" presents a detail of net interest income (on a taxable-equivalent basis), the net interest margin, and the net interest spread. Table 2—Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis _______ (1) Amounts have been calculated using whole dollar values. (2) Debt securities are included on an amortized cost basis with yield and net interest margin calculated accordingly. 55 Table of Contents (3) Interest income on debt securities includes hedging income of $41 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 and zero for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. Hedging income for the year ended December 31, 2022 reflects strategies designed to accelerate hedge notional maturities through the use of pay fixed swaps. Benefits will migrate to cash flow hedges from loans in the first quarter of 2023. (4) Loans, net of unearned income include non-accrual loans for all periods presented. (5) Interest income on loans, net of unearned income, includes hedging income of $ 140 million, $426 million, and $260 million for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Interest income on loans, net of unearned income, also includes net loan fees of $64 million, $152 million and $75 million for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. (6) Total deposit costs may be calculated by dividing total interest expense on deposits by the sum of interest-bearing deposits and non-interest-bearing deposits. The rates for total deposit costs equal 0.14%, 0.05% and 0.16% for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. (7) The computation of taxable-equivalent net interest income is based on the statutory federal income tax rate of 21%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit. Table 3 "Volume and Yield/Rate Variances" provides additional information with which to analyze the changes in net interest income. Table 3— Volume and Yield/Rate Variances ______ Notes: • The change in interest not due solely to volume or yield/rate has been allocated to the volume column and yield/rate column in proportion to the relationship of the absolute dollar amounts of the change in each. • The computation of taxable-equivalent net interest income is based on the statutory federal income tax rate of 21%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit. The mix of earning assets can affect the interest rate spread. Regions’ primary types of earning assets are loans and investment securities. Certain types of earning assets have historically generated larger spreads; for example, loans typically generate larger spreads than other assets, such as securities or interest bearing deposits in other banks. Average earning assets in 2022 totaled $144.0 billion, an increase of $5.3 billion as compared to the prior year, primarily due to increases in loans, net of unearned income, and securities. These increases were partially offset by a decline in cash balances as a result of loan growth and deposit declines due to normalizing pandemic liquidity. See the "Loans", "Debt Securities", and "Cash and Cash Equivalents" sections for further details. Average loans as a percentage of average earning assets were 64 percent and 61 percent in 2022 and 2021, respectively. The remaining categories of earning assets are shown in Table 2 "Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis". The proportion of average earning assets to average total assets, which was 90 percent in both 2022 and 2021, measures the effectiveness of management’s efforts to invest available funds into the most profitable earning vehicles. Funding for Regions’ earning assets comes from interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing sources. Another significant factor affecting the net interest margin is the percentage of earning assets funded by interest-bearing liabilities. The percentage of average earning assets funded by average interest-bearing liabilities was 57 percent in 2022 and 56 percent in 2021. 56 Table of Contents PROVISION FOR (BENEFIT FROM) CREDIT LOSSES The provision for (benefit from) credit losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit losses at a level that in management's judgment is appropriate to absorb expected credit losses over the contractual life of the loan and credit commitment portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2022, the provision for credit losses totaled $271 million and net charge-offs were $263 million. This compares to a benefit from credit losses of $524 million and net charge-offs of $204 million in 2021. For further discussion and analysis of the total allowance for credit losses, see the "Allowance for Credit Losses" and  “Risk Management” sections found later in this report. See also Note 5 "Allowance for Credit Losses" to the consolidated financial statements. NON-INTEREST INCOME Table 4—Non-Interest Income _______ (1) In the third quarter of 2022, the Company settled a previously disclosed matter with the CFPB. The Company received an insurance reimbursement in the fourth quarter of 2022 related to the settlement. (2) The 2021 amount is a gain on the sale of an equity investment, whereas the 2020 amount is a valuation gain on the investment that was sold in the first quarter 2021. Service Charges on Deposit Accounts Service charges on deposit accounts include overdraft fees, corporate analysis service charges, non-sufficient fund fees, and other customer transaction-related service charges. During the current year, service charges have been impacted by overdraft-related policy enhancements throughout 2022 and the elimination of non-sufficient fund fees in mid-June 2022. Capital Markets Income Capital markets income primarily relates to capital raising activities that include securities underwriting and placement, loan syndication, as well as foreign exchange, derivatives, merger and acquisition and other advisory services. Capital markets income increased slightly in 2022, driven primarily by higher commercial swap income, which benefited from positive credit/ debit valuation adjustments due to rate and spread movements. Additionally, capital markets income includes revenue from the fourth quarter 2021 acquisitions of Sabal and Clearsight. Offsetting these increases were declines in securities underwriting and placement fees and M&A advisory fees. M&A advisory fees were impacted by timing delays due to market volatility during 2022. Mortgage Income Mortgage income is generated through the origination and servicing of residential mortgage loans for long-term investors and sales of residential mortgage loans in the secondary market. The decrease in mortgage income in 2022 was due primarily to lower mortgage production and sales as a result of higher market interest rates. The decline in production and sales was partially offset by an increase in servicing income and improvement in the valuation of mortgage servicing rights and related hedges. Mortgage income for 2022 also includes approximately $12 million in gains associated with the re-securitization and sale of Ginnie Mae loans previously repurchased from their pools in the first quarter of 2022. Investment Services Fee Income Investment services fee income represents income earned from investment advisory services. Investment services fee income increased during 2022 compared to 2021 due primarily to the rising interest rate environment, which has driven 57 Table of Contents increases in fixed annuity rates and the related investment income. Also contributing was an increase in assets under management due to an increase in financial advisors. Bank-owned Life Insurance Bank-owned life insurance income primarily represents income earned from the appreciation of the cash surrender value of insurance contracts held and the proceeds of insurance benefits. Bank-owned life insurance decreased in 2022 compared to 2021 primarily due to an $18 million individual BOLI claim benefit recognized in the second quarter of 2021. Market Value Adjustments on Employee Benefit Assets Market value adjustments on employee benefit assets are the reflection of market value variations related to assets held for certain employee benefits. Market value adjustments on employee benefit assets decreased in 2022 compared to 2021 due to market volatility. The adjustments are offset in salaries and benefits and other non-interest expense. Securities Gains (Losses), net Net securities gains (losses) primarily result from the Company's asset/liability management process. See Table 6 "Debt Securities" section and Note 3 "Debt Securities" to the consolidated financial statements for more information. Insurance Proceeds Insurance proceeds recognized in 2022 were related to the settlement of a previously disclosed matter with the CFPB. See Note 23 "Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees" for more detail. Other Miscellaneous Income Other miscellaneous income includes net revenue from affordable housing, valuation adjustments to equity investments (other than the item listed separately in Table 4 above), fees from safe deposit boxes, check fees and other miscellaneous income. Net revenue from affordable housing includes actual gains and losses resulting from the sale of affordable housing investments, cash distributions from the investments and any related impairment charges. Other miscellaneous income decreased in 2022 compared to 2021 primarily due to a decline in commercial loan and leasing related fee income, a decrease in SBIC income, and adjustments made in 2021 to increase the values of other equity investments. NON-INTEREST EXPENSE Table 5—Non-Interest Expense Salaries and Employee Benefits Salaries and employee benefits consist of salaries, incentive compensation, long-term incentives, payroll taxes, and other employee benefits such as 401(k), pension, and medical, life and disability insurance, as well as, expenses from liabilities held for employee benefit purposes. Salaries and employee benefits increased during 2022 compared to 2021 primarily due to a full year of expense related to the additional associates from acquisitions in the fourth quarter of 2021. There was also growth in full-time equivalent headcount during the year from 19,626 at December 31, 2021 to 20,073 at December 31, 2022. Also contributing to the increase were annual merit increases that occurred in the second quarter of 2022. These increases were partially offset by a decline in benefits expense. 58 Table of Contents Professional, Legal and Regulatory Expenses Professional, legal and regulatory expenses consist of amounts related to legal, consulting, other professional fees and regulatory charges. Professional, legal and regulatory expenses increased in 2022 compared to 2021 primarily due to a settlement reached with the CFPB in the third quarter of 2022 related to a previously disclosed matter. See Note 23 "Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees" for more detail. FDIC Insurance Assessments FDIC insurance assessments increased during 2022 compared to 2021 due to higher FDIC premium expenses as a result of loan growth and declining cash balances. Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt In 2021, Regions redeemed its 3.80% senior bank notes and incurred related early extinguishment pre-tax charges totaling $20 million. INCOME TAXES The Company’s income tax expense for the year ended 2022 was $631 million compared to income tax expense of $694 million for the same period in 2021, resulting in effective tax rates of 22.0% percent and 21.6% percent, respectively. See the "Executive Overview" for the Company's near-term expectations for future tax rates. The effective tax rate is affected by many factors including, but not limited to, the level of pre-tax income, the mix of income between various tax jurisdictions with differing tax rates, enacted tax legislation, net tax benefits related to affordable housing investments, bank-owned life insurance income, tax-exempt interest and nondeductible expenses. In addition, the effective tax rate is affected by items that may occur in any given period but are not consistent from period-to-period, such as the termination of certain leveraged leases, share-based payments, valuation allowance changes and changes to unrecognized tax benefits. Accordingly, the comparability of the effective tax rate between periods may be impacted. See Note 1 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" and Note 19 "Income Taxes" to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about income taxes. BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS The following sections provide expanded discussion of significant changes in certain line items in asset, liability, and shareholders' equity categories. Cash and Cash Equivalents At December 31, 2022, cash and cash equivalents totaled $11.2 billion compared to $29.4 billion at December 31, 2021. The decrease was due primarily to a decrease in cash on deposit with the FRB partially offset by an increase in cash due from other banks. In 2022, the Company used cash balances to fund loan growth and experienced a decline in deposits. Also contributing to the decline in cash balances was securities purchases as a part of hedging and active cash management strategies. See the "Debt Securities", "Loans", "Liquidity", and "Deposits" sections for more information. Debt Securities Debt securities available for sale, which constitute the majority of the securities portfolio, are an important tool used to manage interest rate sensitivity and provide a primary source of liquidity for the Company. Regions maintains a highly rated securities portfolio consisting primarily of agency mortgage-backed securities. Regions’ investment policy emphasizes credit quality and liquidity. Debt securities rated in the highest category by nationally recognized rating agencies and debt securities backed by the U.S. Government and government sponsored agencies, both on a direct and indirect basis, represented approximately 96 percent of the investment portfolio at December 31, 2022. All other debt securities rated below AAA, not backed by the U.S. Government or government sponsored agencies, or which are not rated represented approximately 4 percent of total debt securities at December 31, 2022. The “Market Risk-Interest Rate Risk” and "Liquidity Risk" sections, found later in this report, further explain Regions’ interest rate and liquidity risk management practices. The average life of the debt securities portfolio at December 31, 2022 was estimated to be 5.77 years, with a duration of approximately 4.81 years. These metrics compare with an estimated average life of 4.93 years and a duration of approximately 4.25 years for the portfolio at December 31, 2021. The decrease in debt securities from year-end 2021 was primarily driven by declines in market valuations due to an increase in market interest rates. Regions made purchases of debt securities available for sale, in addition to normal reinvestment of maturities and paydowns, totaling approximately $2.8 billion consisting primarily of U.S. Treasury, federal agency, residential agency mortgage, and commercial agency mortgage-backed securities in 2022, which partially offset the market value declines. Approximately $2.5 billion of the purchases relate to the Company's hedging strategy with the remaining purchases related to reinvestment of proceeds from loan sales. 59 Table of Contents See Note 3 "Debt Securities" to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Table 6 "Debt Securities" details the carrying values of debt securities, including both available for sale and held to maturity. Table 6—Debt Securities Table 7 "Relative Contractual Maturities" details the contractual maturities of debt securities, including held to maturity and available for sale, and the related weighted-average yields. Table 7— Relative Contractual Maturities _________ (1) The weighted-average yields are calculated on the basis of the yield to maturity based on the carrying value of each debt security. The yields presented in Table 2 are calculated based on the amortized cost of each debt security and yields earned throughout each year. Yields are calculated based on whole dollar amounts. Loans Held For Sale At December 31, 2022, loans held for sale totaled $354 million, consisting of $160 million of residential real estate mortgage loans, $153 million of commercial loans, $38 million of consumer and other performing loans, and $3 million of non-performing loans. At December 31, 2021, loans held for sale totaled $1.0 billion, consisting of $680 million of residential real estate mortgage loans, $257 million of commercial loans, $53 million of consumer and other performing loans, and $13 million of non-performing loans. The levels of residential real estate mortgage loans held for sale that are part of the Company's mortgage originations fluctuate depending on production and retention levels, as well as the timing of origination and sale to third parties. Commercial loans held for sale include commercial mortgage loans originated for sale to third parties and commercial loans originally recorded as held for investment when management has the intent to sell. Levels of commercial loans held for sale fluctuate based on timing of sale to third parties. Loans GENERAL Loans, net of unearned income, represented 71 percent of interest-earning assets as of December 31, 2022 compared to 60 percent as of December 31, 2021. Lending at Regions is generally organized along three portfolio segments: commercial loans (including commercial and industrial, and owner-occupied commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans), investor 60 Table of Contents real estate loans (commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans) and consumer loans (residential first mortgage, home equity lines and loans, consumer credit card, other consumer—exit portfolios, and other consumer loans). Table 8 illustrates a year-over-year comparison of loans, net of unearned income, by portfolio segment and class as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 and Table 9 provides information on selected loan maturities as of December 31, 2022: Table 8—Loan Portfolio Table 9— Loan Maturities 61 Table of Contents Table 10- Loan Distribution by Rate Type The following table shows the distribution of those loans with maturities greater than one year between predetermined and variable interest rate loans as of December 31, 2022: _________ (1) The lending reported in variable rate disclosure is based upon the rate in the underlying lending agreements. For some lending arrangements, Regions enters into interest rate swap and floor agreements to manage overall cash flow changes related to interest rate risk exposure on variable rate loans. The agreements effectively modify the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk by utilizing receive fixed/pay variable interest rate swaps and interest rate floors. The impact of hedging is not considered within this disclosure. Loans, net of unearned income, totaled $97.0 billion at December 31, 2022, an increase of $9.2 billion from year-end 2021 levels. Regions manages loan growth with a focus on risk management and risk-adjusted return on capital. Loan balances increased year over year primarily due to increases in the commercial and industrial, commercial investor real estate mortgage and residential first mortgage portfolio classes. See the "Executive Overview" section for details on expectations of loan growth in 2023. PORTFOLIO CHARACTERISTICS The following sections describe the composition of the portfolio segments and classes disclosed in Table 8, explain changes in balances from year-end 2021 and highlight the related risk characteristics. Regions believes that its loan portfolio is well diversified by product, client, and geography throughout its footprint. However, the loan portfolio may be exposed to certain concentrations of credit risk which exist in relation to individual borrowers or groups of borrowers, certain types of collateral, certain types of industries, certain loan products, or certain regions of the country. See Note 4 "Loans" and Note 5 "Allowance for Credit Losses" to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion. Commercial The commercial portfolio segment includes commercial and industrial loans to commercial customers for use in normal business operations to finance working capital needs, equipment purchases and other expansion projects. Commercial and industrial loans increased $7.1 million or 16 percent since year-end 2021. The increase in commercial and industrial loan balances was driven by new loan production and a continued increase in line utilization. In 2022, commercial and industrial loan growth was broad-based and included increases in the real estate, financial services, information, manufacturing, and wholesale goods industries. The December 31, 2022 commercial and industrial loan balance included $135 million of PPP loans, a decrease of $613 million compared to year-end 2021, reflecting continued PPP loan forgiveness. The commercial portfolio also includes owner-occupied commercial real estate mortgage loans to operating businesses, which are loans for long-term financing on land and buildings, and are repaid by cash generated by business operations. Owner-occupied commercial real estate construction loans are made to commercial businesses for the development of land or construction of a building where the repayment is derived from revenues generated from the business of the borrower. Over half of the Company’s total loans are included in the commercial portfolio segment. These balances are spread across numerous industries, as noted in the table below. The Company manages the related risks to this portfolio by setting certain lending limits for each significant industry. 62 Table of Contents The following table provides detail of Regions' commercial portfolio balances in selected industries as of December 31: Table 11—Commercial Industry Exposure _______ (1) "Real estate" includes REITs, which are unsecured commercial and industrial products that are real estate related. (2) "Other" contains balances related to non-classifiable and invalid business industry codes offset by payments in process and fee accounts that are not available at the loan level. (3) As customers' businesses evolve (e.g. up or down the vertical manufacturing chain), Regions may need to change the assigned business industry code used to define the customer relationship. When these changes occur, Regions does not recast the customer history for prior periods into the new classification because the business industry code used in the prior period was deemed appropriate. As a result, year over year changes may be impacted. 63 Table of Contents Investor Real Estate Loans for real estate development are repaid through cash flows related to the operation, sale or refinance of the property. This portfolio segment includes extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. A portion of Regions’ investor real estate portfolio segment consists of loans secured by residential product types (land, single-family and condominium loans) within Regions’ markets. Additionally, this category includes loans made to finance income-producing properties such as apartment buildings, office and industrial buildings, and retail shopping centers. Total investor real estate loans increased $1.4 billion in comparison to 2021 year-end balances. The increase was primarily driven by growth in term lending commitments and fundings on previously committed construction facilities. Residential First Mortgage Residential first mortgage loans represent loans to consumers to finance a residence. These loans are typically financed over a 15 to 30 year term and, in most cases, are extended to borrowers to finance their primary residence. These loans increased $1.3 billion in comparison to 2021 year-end balances. The increase is primarily due to a decline in prepayment rate and an increase in ARM production retained on the balance sheet. The increase was partially offset by the sale of approximately $285 million of Ginnie Mae loans in the first quarter of 2022, which had been previously repurchased from their pools. Approximately $4.0 billion in new loan originations were retained on the balance sheet through the year ended December 31, 2022. Home Equity Lines Home equity lines are secured by a first or second mortgage on the borrower's residence and allow customers to borrow against the equity in their homes. Home equity lines decreased $234 million in comparison to 2021 year-end balances, as payoffs and paydowns continue to outpace production. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions’ branch network. Beginning in December 2016, new home equity lines of credit have a 10-year draw period and a 20-year repayment term. During the 10-year draw period customers do not have an interest-only payment option, except on a very limited basis. From May 2009 to December 2016, home equity lines of credit had a 10-year draw period and a 10-year repayment term. Prior to May 2009, the predominant structure was a 20-year draw period with a balloon payment upon maturity. The term “balloon payment” means there are no principal payments required until the balloon payment is due for interest-only lines of credit. The following table presents information regarding the future principal payment reset dates for the Company's home equity lines of credit as of December 31, 2022. The balances presented are based on maturity date for lines with a balloon payment and draw period expiration date for lines that convert to a repayment period. Table 12—Home Equity Lines of Credit - Future Principal Payment Resets Home Equity Loans Home equity loans are also secured by a first or second mortgage on the borrower's residence, are primarily originated as amortizing loans, and allow customers to borrow against the equity in their homes. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions’ branch network. Consumer Credit Quality Data The Company calculates an estimate of the current value of property secured as collateral for both residential first mortgage and home equity lending products (“current LTV”). The estimate is based on home price indices compiled by a third party. The third party data indicates trends for MSAs. Regions uses the third party valuation trends from the MSAs in the Company's footprint in its estimate. The trend data is applied to the loan portfolios taking into account the age of the most recent valuation and geographic area. 64 Table of Contents The following table presents current LTV data for components of the residential first mortgage, home equity lines and home equity loans classes of the consumer portfolio segment. Current LTV data for some loans in the portfolio is not available due to mergers and systems integrations. The amounts in the table represent the entire loan balance. For purposes of the table below, if the loan balance exceeds the current estimated collateral the entire balance is included in the “Above 100%” category, regardless of the amount of collateral available to partially offset the shortfall. Table 13—Estimated Current Loan to Value Ranges Consumer Credit Card Consumer credit card lending represents primarily open-ended variable interest rate consumer credit card loans. Other Consumer—Exit Portfolios Other consumer — exit portfolios includes lending initiatives through third parties consisting of loans made through automotive dealerships and other point of sale lending. Regions ceased originating new loans related to these businesses prior to 2020 and therefore the portfolio balance has decreased $501 million from year-end 2021. Other Consumer Other consumer loans primarily include indirect and direct consumer loans, overdrafts and other revolving loans. Other consumer loans increased $270 million from year-end 2021 primarily driven by by increases in consumer home improvement loans partially offset by the sale of $1.2 billion of unsecured consumer loans at the end of the third quarter of 2022. Regions considers factors such as periodic updates of FICO scores, unemployment, home prices, and geography as credit quality indicators for consumer loans. FICO scores are obtained at origination and refreshed FICO scores are obtained by the Company quarterly for most consumer loans.  For more information on credit quality indicators refer to Note 5 "Allowance for Credit Losses". Allowance The allowance consists of two components: the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. Unfunded credit commitments includes items such as letters of credit, financial guarantees and binding unfunded loan commitments. The allowance totaled $1.6 billion at both of December 31, 2022 and 2021, which represents management's best estimate of expected losses over the life of the loan and credit commitment portfolios. Key drivers of the change in the allowance by 65 Table of Contents quarter from year-end 2021 to year-end 2022 are presented in Table 14 below. While many of these items overlap regarding impact, they are included in the category most relevant. Table 14— Allowance Changes _______ (1) This line item includes the net impact of portfolio growth, portfolio run-off, pay-downs, changes in the mix of total outstanding loans, and credit quality changes. This line item excludes the impact of PPP loans of $135 million as of December 31, 2022, $177 million as of September 30, 2022, $254 million as of June 30, 2022 and $437 million as of March 31, 2022, which are fully backed by the U.S. government and have an immaterial associated allowance. (2) Includes pandemic-related qualitative adjustments. (3) Includes an incremental provision for estimated hurricane-related loan losses of $20 million for the third quarter of 2022. The hurricane-related allowance was released in the fourth quarter of 2022. (4) At the end of the third quarter of 2022, the Company sold certain unsecured consumer loans with an associated allowance of $94 million at the time of the sale. There was a $63 million fair value mark recorded through charge-offs in conjunction with the sale, which resulted in a net provision benefit of $31 million associated with the sale. 66 Table of Contents The table below reflects a range of macroeconomic factors utilized in the Base forecast over the two-year R&S forecast period as of December 31, 2022.  The unemployment rate is the most significant macroeconomic factor among the allowance models. The unemployment rate in the fourth quarter continued to be lower than the pre-pandemic levels with forecasted periods expected to remain relatively consistent. Table 15— Macroeconomic Factors in the Forecast In deriving its December 2022 forecast, Regions benchmarked its internal forecast with external forecasts and external data available. Regions' December 2022 baseline forecast weakened slightly compared to the September 2022 forecast driven by a slight decline in real GDP growth. The December 2022 baseline forecast continues to anticipate real GDP growth in 2023 supported primarily by consumer spending and business investments in equipment, machinery and intellectual property. While the baseline forecast continues to anticipate a strong HPI, quarter over quarter growth is expected to decelerate in 2023 compared to double-digit levels experienced in recent quarters. As measured by CPI, inflation is expected to remain above the FOMC's 2.0 percent target into 2024. Furthermore, ongoing disruptions in supply chains and shipping networks, monetary policy tightening, and heightened financial volatility provide significant uncertainty over the near-term forecast. See the "Economic Environment in Regions' Banking Markets" discussion in the "Executive Overview" section for additional information. Credit metrics are monitored throughout each quarter in order to understand external macro-views, trends and industry outlooks, as well as Regions' internal specific views of credit metrics and trends. In the fourth quarter of 2022, asset quality continued to normalize, as expected, within certain select sectors of the commercial and consumer portfolios. Total net charge-offs declined $41 million, but increased $22 million excluding the impact of the consumer loan sale in the third quarter of 2022. Commercial and investor real estate criticized balances increased approximately $378 million, which included an increase in  classified balances of $254 million compared to the third quarter of 2022. Non-performing loans, excluding held for sale, and non-performing assets both increased approximately $5 million compared to the third quarter of 2022. This normalization resulted in a modest increase to the modeled results in the allowance for credit losses. Loan growth in the fourth quarter, much of which was in high quality risk rating categories, also contributed to the increase in the allowance for credit losses modeled results. Additionally, the fourth quarter allowance reflects the full release of the $20 million adjustment to the modeled results for Hurricane Ian established in the third quarter of 2022. While Regions' quantitative allowance methodologies strive to reflect all risk factors, any estimate involves assumptions and uncertainties resulting in some level of imprecision. The qualitative framework has a general imprecision component which is meant to acknowledge that model and forecast errors are inherent in any modeling estimate. The December 31, 2022 general imprecision allowance decreased slightly compared to the third quarter of 2022 and reflects balanced risk in the economic forecast. Based on the overall analysis performed, management deemed an allowance of $1.6 billion to be appropriate to absorb expected credit losses in the loan and credit commitment portfolios as of December 31, 2022. 67 Table of Contents Details regarding the allowance and net charge-offs, including an analysis of activity from previous years' totals, are included in Table 16 "Allowance for Credit Losses". Table 16—Allowance for Credit Losses 68 Table of Contents _______ (1) Regions adopted accounting guidance on January 1, 2020 and recorded the cumulative effect of the change in accounting guidance. See Note 1 for additional details. (2) Amounts have been calculated using whole dollar values. Net charge-offs increased $59 million year-over-year, primarily driven by an increase in net charge-offs in the other consumer portfolio due to the sale of unsecured consumer loans at the end of the third quarter of 2022. See Table 1 "GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations" for further details. Also contributing to the increase in other consumer net charge offs is $39 million in net charge-offs from the addition of the EnerBank portfolio for 2022 compared to $7 million in 2021. Partially offsetting the increase in net charge-offs were declines in the commercial and industrial and commercial investor real estate mortgage portfolios. See the "Executive Overview" section for details on expectations for net charge-offs in 2023. Allocation of the allowance for credit losses by portfolio segment and class is summarized as follows: Table 17—Allowance Allocation _____ (1) Amounts have been calculated using whole dollar values. 69 Table of Contents TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURINGS (TDRs) TDRs are modified loans in which a concession is provided to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty. Residential first mortgage, home equity, consumer credit card and other consumer TDRs are consumer loans modified under the CAP. Commercial and investor real estate loan modifications are not the result of a formal program, but represent situations where modifications were offered as a workout alternative. Renewals of classified commercial and investor real estate loans are considered to be TDRs, even if no reduction in interest rate is offered, if the existing terms are considered to be below market. Insignificant modifications are not considered TDRs. More detailed information is included in Note 5 "Allowance for Credit Losses" to the consolidated financial statements. As provided initially in the CARES Act and subsequently extended through the Consolidated Appropriations Act, certain loan modifications related to the COVID-19 pandemic beginning March 1, 2020 through January 1, 2022 were eligible for relief from TDR classification. Regions elected this provision of both Acts; therefore, modified loans that met the required guidelines for relief were not considered TDRs and are excluded from the December 31, 2021 disclosures below. The following table summarizes the loan balance and related allowance for accruing and non-accruing TDRs for the periods ending December 31: Table 18—Troubled Debt Restructurings 70 Table of Contents The following table provides an analysis of the changes in commercial and investor real estate TDRs. TDRs with subsequent restructurings that meet the definition of a TDR are only reported as TDR additions in the period they were first modified. Other than resolutions such as charge-offs, foreclosures, payments, sales and transfers to held for sale, Regions may remove loans from TDR classification if the following conditions are met: the borrower's financial condition improves such that the borrower is no longer in financial difficulty, the loan has not had any forgiveness of principal or interest, the loan has not been restructured as an "A" note/"B" note, the loan has been reported as a TDR over one fiscal year-end and the loan is subsequently refinanced or restructured at market terms such that it qualifies as a new loan. For the consumer portfolio, changes in TDRs are primarily due to additions from CAP modifications and outflows from payments and charge-offs. Given the types of concessions currently being granted under the CAP as detailed in Note 5 "Allowance for Credit Losses" to the consolidated financial statements, Regions does not expect that the market interest rate condition will be widely achieved. Table 19—Analysis of Changes in Commercial and Investor Real Estate TDRs _________ (1) The majority of this category consists of payments and sales. It also includes normal amortization/accretion of loan basis adjustments, loans transferred to held for sale, removals and reclassifications between portfolio segments and commercial and investor real estate loans refinanced or restructured as new loans and removed from the TDR classification. 71 Table of Contents NON-PERFORMING ASSETS The following table presents non-performing assets as of December 31: Table 20—Non-Performing Assets _________ (1) Excludes accruing loans 90 days past due. (2) Excludes residential first mortgage loans that are 100% guaranteed by the FHA and all guaranteed loans sold to Ginnie Mae where Regions has the right but not the obligation to repurchase. Total 90 days or more past due guaranteed loans excluded were $34 million at December 31, 2022 and $49 million at December 31, 2021. Non-performing loans increased during 2022 driven primarily by increases in agriculture, business offices, and professional, scientific and technical services segments which were partially offset by improvements in the energy, restaurant, accommodation, and lodging, and utilities segments. Economic trends such as interest rates, unemployment, volatility in commodity prices, and collateral valuations will impact the future level of non-performing assets. Circumstances related to individually large credits could also result in volatility. 72 Table of Contents The following table provides an analysis of non-accrual loans (excluding loans held for sale) by portfolio segment: Table 21— Analysis of Non-Accrual Loans ________ (1) All net activity within the consumer portfolio segment other than sales and transfers to held for sale (including related charge-offs) is included as a single net number within the net payments/other activity line. (2) Includes charge-offs on loans on non-accrual status and charge-offs taken upon sale and transfer of non-accrual loans to held for sale. (3) Transfers to held for sale are shown net of charge-offs recorded upon transfer. Other Earning Assets Other earning assets consist primarily of investments in FRB and FHLB stock, marketable equity securities, and other miscellaneous earning assets. The balance at December 31, 2022 totaled $1.3 billion, increasing from $1.2 billion at December 31, 2021 primarily due to an increase in other miscellaneous earning assets. Refer to Note 7 "Other Earning Assets" to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Premises and Equipment Premises and equipment at December 31, 2022 decreased $96 million to $1.7 billion compared to year-end 2021. This decrease primarily resulted from depreciation expense on existing assets. Goodwill Goodwill totaled $5.7 billion at both December 31, 2022 and 2021. Refer to the “Critical Accounting Policies” section earlier in this report for detailed discussions of the Company’s methodology for testing goodwill for impairment. Refer to Note 1 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" and Note 9 "Intangible Assets" to the consolidated financial statements for the methodologies and assumptions used in the goodwill impairment analysis. Additionally, see the "EnerBank" and "Sabal" sections for details on goodwill recorded as a result of these acquisitions in 2021. Residential Mortgage Servicing Rights at Fair Value Residential MSRs increased approximately $394 million from December 31, 2021 to December 31, 2022. The year-over-year increase was primarily due to purchases of residential MSRs. Also contributing to the increase were valuation adjustments on the MSR portfolio due to changes in market interest rates and other inputs including prepayment speeds. An analysis of residential MSRs is presented in Note 6 "Servicing of Financial Assets" to the consolidated financial statements. 73 Table of Contents Other Assets Other assets increased $2.0 billion to $9.0 billion as of December 31, 2022. The increase was primarily due to an increase in deferred income tax assets due to increases in unrealized losses on securities available for sale and derivative instruments. Also contributing to the increase were in-process items associated with a program which provides direct-deposit customers access to their qualifying payroll funds up to two days early and creates in-process receivables for certain participating employers' and federal and state government payments. Deposits Regions competes with other banking and financial services companies for a share of the deposit market. Regions’ ability to compete in the deposit market depends heavily on the pricing of its deposits and how effectively the Company meets customers’ needs. Regions employs various means to meet those needs and enhance competitiveness, such as providing a high level of customer service, competitive pricing and convenient branch locations for its customers. Regions also serves customers through providing centralized, high-quality banking services through the Company's digital channels and contact center. Deposits are Regions’ primary source of funds, providing funding for 95 percent of average earning assets in 2022 and 94 percent of average earning assets in 2021. Table 22 "Deposits" details year-over-year deposit balance decline on a period-ending basis. Total deposits at December 31, 2022 decreased approximately $7.3 billion compared to year-end 2021 levels across most categories. Deposit costs increased to 14 basis points for 2022, compared to 5 basis points for 2021. The rate paid on interest-bearing deposits increased to 25 basis points in 2022 compared to 9 basis points for 2021. In 2022, short-term interest rates increased rapidly throughout the year, but despite the increase in interest rates, deposit costs remained controlled. Low deposit costs are driven primarily by the composition of the Company's deposit base, which includes a significant amount of low-cost and relatively small account balance consumer deposits. The deposit base composition is a key component of the Company's franchise value. Deposit balances acquired through periods of excess liquidity during 2021 have declined from year-end 2021, as expected. See the “Market Risk-Interest Rate Risk” section for further discussion of these balances. The following table summarizes deposits by category as of December 31: Table 22—Deposits Non-interest-bearing demand deposits decreased $7.0 billion to $51.3 billion at year-end 2022.  Non-interest-bearing demand deposits accounted for approximately 39 percent of total deposits at year-end 2022 compared to 42 percent at year-end 2021. Interest-bearing checking deposits decreased $2.3 billion to $25.7 billion and accounted for approximately 19 percent and 20 percent of total deposits for 2022 and 2021, respectively. The declines across non-interest bearing demand and interest-bearing checking are primarily due to corporate and wealth management customers continuing to reduce excess balances accumulated over the past two years. Additionally, as interest rates have increased corporate customers have remixed into higher-yielding deposit accounts. Savings accounts increased $528 million to $15.7 billion at year-end 2022 and accounted for 12 percent of total deposits at year-end 2022 compared to 11 percent at year-end 2021. Money market accounts increased $1.9 billion to $33.3 billion at year-end 2022 and accounted for approximately 25 percent of total deposits at year-end 2022 compared to 23 percent at year-end 2021. The increase in money market balances is primarily due to rate-seeking behavior exhibited by corporate customers as discussed above. Included in time deposits are certificates of deposit and individual retirement accounts. Time deposits decreased $371 million to $5.8 billion at year-end 2022. The decline in time deposits was driven by a decline in accounts acquired through EnerBank as these deposits are not being replaced when they mature. Time deposits accounted for 4 percent of total deposits in both 2022 and 2021. See the "Executive Overview" section for details on expectations for deposits in 2023. The amount of estimated uninsured deposits at December 31, 2022 and 2021, totaled $49.3 billion and $56.2 billion, respectively. The estimate of uninsured deposits was based upon methodologies used in the Company's Call Report. Time deposit accounts with balances of $250,000 or more totaled $790 million and $571 million at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. 74 Table of Contents The following table shows scheduled maturities of estimated uninsured time deposits as of December 31, 2022: Table 23—Maturity of Uninsured Time Deposits Borrowed Funds Total long-term borrowings decreased approximately $123 million to $2.3 billion at December 31, 2022 due entirely to valuation adjustments. Regions and Regions Bank did not issue or redeem any debt in 2022. See Note 11 "Borrowed Funds" to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of both short-term and long-term borrowings. Ratings Table 24 "Credit Ratings" reflects the debt ratings information of Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank by Standard and Poor's ("S&P"), Moody’s, Fitch and Dominion Bond Rating Service Morningstar ("DBRS") as of December 31, 2022 . Table 24—Credit Ratings On February 17, 2022, Moody's upgraded the senior unsecured and subordinated debt ratings of Regions Financial Corporation to Baa1 from Baa2 and changed the outlook to Stable from Under Review. Additionally, Regions Bank's senior unsecured and subordinated debt ratings were upgraded to Baa1 from Baa2, and its long-term bank deposits rating was upgraded to A1 from A2. The upgrades reflect both the Company's improved core profitability and asset risk profile, as well as the strength of the Company's funding and liquidity position. On October 14, 2022, Fitch upgraded Regions' long-term issuer default rating and senior unsecured debt ratings to A- from BBB+, subordinated debt rating to BBB+ from BBB, and changed the Outlook to Stable from Positive citing the Company's strong earnings power and improved risk profile. Additionally, Regions Bank's senior unsecured debt rating was upgraded to A- from BBB+, the long-term bank deposits rating was upgraded to A from A-, and the subordinated debt rating was upgraded to BBB+ from BBB. On November 7, 2022, DBRS upgraded the senior unsecured and subordinated debt ratings of Regions Financial Corporation to A and AL from AL and BBBH, respectively and changed the outlook to Stable from Positive. Additionally, Regions Bank's senior unsecured and subordinated debt ratings were upgraded to AH and A from A and AL, and its long-term bank deposits rating was upgraded to AH from A. The upgrades reflect both the Company's strong core profitability and risk management practices, as well as the strength of the Company's funding and liquidity position. In general, ratings agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix, probability of government support, and level and quality of earnings. Any downgrade in credit ratings by one or more ratings agencies may impact Regions in several ways, including, but not limited to, Regions’ access to the capital markets or short-term funding, borrowing cost and capacity, collateral requirements, and acceptability of its letters of credit, thereby potentially adversely impacting Regions’ financial condition and liquidity. See the “Risk Factors” section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information. 75 Table of Contents A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and the ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Additional information on the credit rating ranking within the overall classification system is located on the website of each credit rating agency. Shareholders' and Total Equity Shareholders’ equity was $15.9 billion at December 31, 2022 as compared to $18.3 billion at December 31, 2021. During 2022, net income increased shareholders' equity by $2.2 billion, cash dividends on common stock and cash dividends on preferred stock reduced shareholders' equity by $692 million and $99 million, respectively. Changes in AOCI decreased shareholders' equity by $3.6 billion, primarily due to the net change in unrealized gains (losses) on securities available for sale and derivative instruments as a result of significant changes in market interest rates during 2022. Common stock repurchased during 2022 decreased shareholders' equity $230 million. These shares were immediately retired and therefore are not included in treasury stock. Total equity includes noncontrolling interest of $4 million, representing the unowned portion of a low income housing tax credit fund syndication, of which Regions held the majority interest at December 31, 2022. See Note 14 "Shareholders' Equity and Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)" to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS CAPITAL RULES Regions and Regions Bank are required to comply with regulatory capital requirements established by Federal and State banking agencies. These regulatory capital requirements involve quantitative measures of the Company's assets, liabilities and selected off-balance sheet items, and also qualitative judgments by the regulators. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can subject the Company to a series of increasingly restrictive regulatory actions. Under the Basel III Rules, Regions is designated as a standardized approach bank. Regions is a "Category IV" institution under the FRB's rules for tailoring enhanced prudential standards. Federal banking agencies allowed a phase-in of the impact of CECL on regulatory capital. At December 31, 2021, the add-back to regulatory capital was calculated as the impact of initial adoption, adjusted for 25 percent of subsequent changes in the allowance. The amount is phased-in over a three-year period beginning in 2022. At December 31, 2022, the net impact of the addback on CET1 was approximately $306 million or approximately 24 basis points. The add-back amounts will decrease by approximately $100 million each year, or approximately 8 basis points, in the first quarters of 2023, 2024, and 2025. Regions participates in supervisory stress testing conducted by the Federal Reserve and its SCB is currently floored at 2.5 percent. See Note 12 "Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions" to the consolidated financial statements for further details regarding CCAR results. See the "Executive Overview" section for details on expectations of a range for CET1. Additional discussion of the Basel III Rules, their applicability to Regions, recent proposals and final rules issued by the federal banking agencies and recent laws enacted that impact regulatory requirements is included in the "Supervision and Regulation" subsection of the "Business" section. Additional discussion and a tabular presentation of the applicable holding company and bank regulatory capital requirements is included in Note 12 "Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions" to the consolidated financial statements. LIQUIDITY Regions maintains a robust liquidity management framework designed to effectively manage liquidity risk in accordance with sound risk management principals and regulatory expectations. The framework establishes sustainable processes and tools to effectively identify, measure, mitigate, monitor, and report liquidity risks beginning with Regions’ Liquidity Management Policy and the Liquidity Risk Appetite Statements approved by the Board. Processes within the liquidity management framework include, but are not limited to, liquidity risk governance, cash management, liquidity stress testing, liquidity risk limits, contingency funding plans, and collateral management. While the framework is designed to comply with liquidity regulations, the processes are further tailored to be commensurate with Regions’ operating model and risk profile. See the “Supervision and Regulation—Liquidity Regulation” subsection of the “Business” section, the "Risk Factors" section and the "Liquidity" section for more information. RISK MANAGEMENT Regions is exposed to various risks as part of the normal course of operations. The exposure to risk requires sound risk management practices that comprise an integrated and comprehensive set of programs and processes that apply to the entire Company. Accordingly, Regions has established a risk management framework to manage risks and provide reasonable 76 Table of Contents assurance of the achievement of the Company’s strategic objectives. The primary risk exposures identified and managed through the Company’s risk management framework are market risk, liquidity risk, credit risk, operational risk, legal risk, compliance risk, reputational risk and strategic risk. • Market risk is the risk to the Company’s financial condition resulting from adverse movements in market rates or prices, such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates or equity prices. • Liquidity risk is the potential that the Company will be unable to meet its obligations as they come due because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding (referred to as "funding liquidity risk") or the potential that the Company cannot easily unwind or offset specific exposures without significantly lowering market prices because of inadequate market depth or market disruptions (referred to as "market liquidity risk"). • Credit risk is the risk that arises from the potential that a borrower or counterparty will fail to perform on an obligation. • Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and systems or from external events. • Legal risk is defined as the risk associated with the failure to meet Regions' legal obligations from legislative, regulatory, or contractual perspectives. • Compliance risk is the risk to current or anticipated earnings or capital arising from violations of laws, rules, or regulations, or from non-conformance with prescribed practices, internal policies and procedures, or ethical standards. • Reputational risk is the potential that negative publicity regarding the Company’s business practices, whether true or not, will cause a decline in the customer base, costly litigation, or revenue reductions. • Strategic risk is the risk to current or projected financial condition and resilience from adverse business decisions, poor implementation of business decisions, or lack of responsiveness to changes in the banking industry and operating environment. Several of these primary risk exposures are expanded upon further within the remaining sections of Management's Discussion and Analysis. Regions’ risk management framework outlines the Company’s approach for managing risk that includes the following four components: • Collaborative Risk Culture - A strong, collaborative risk culture is fundamental to the Company's core values and operating principles. It ensures focus on risk in all activities and encourages the necessary mindset and behavior to enable effective risk management and promote sound risk-taking within the bounds of the Company’s risk appetite. The Company's risk culture requires that risks be promptly identified, escalated, and challenged; thereby, benefiting the overall performance of the Company. Sustaining a collaborative risk culture is critical to the Company's success and is a clear expectation of executive management and the Board. • Sound Risk Appetite - The Company's risk appetite statements define the types and levels of risk the Company is willing to take to achieve its objectives. • Sustainable Risk Processes - Effective risk management requires sustainable processes and tools to effectively identify, measure, mitigate, monitor, and report risk. • Responsible Risk Governance - Governance serves as the foundation for comprehensive management of risks facing the Company. It outlines clear responsibility and accountability for managing, monitoring, escalating, and reporting both existing and emerging risks. Clearly defined roles and responsibilities are critical to the effective management of risk and are central to the four components of the Company’s approach to risk management. Regions utilizes the Three Lines of Defense concept to clearly designate risk management activities within the Company. • 1st Line of Defense activities provide for the identification, acceptance and ownership of risks. • 2nd Line of Defense activities provide for objective oversight of the Company’s risk-taking activities and assessment of the Company’s aggregate risk levels. • 3rd Line of Defense activities provide for independent reviews and assessments of risk management practices across the Company. The Board provides the highest level of risk management governance. The principal risk management functions of the Board are to oversee processes for evaluating the adequacy of internal controls, risk management, financial reporting and compliance with laws and regulations. The Board has designated an Audit Committee of outside directors to focus on oversight of management's establishment and maintenance of appropriate disclosure controls and procedures over financial reporting. See the "Financial Disclosures and Internal Controls" section of Management's Discussion and Analysis for 77 Table of Contents additional information. The Board has also designated a Risk Committee of outside directors to focus on Regions’ overall risk profile. The Risk Committee annually approves an Enterprise Risk Appetite Statement that reflects core business principles and strategic vision by including quantitative limits and qualitative statements that are organized by risk type. This statement is designed to be a high-level document that sets the tone for the Board’s risk appetite, which is the maximum amount of risk the Company is willing to accept in pursuit of its business objectives. By establishing boundaries around risk taking and business decisions, and by incorporating the needs and goals of its shareholders, regulators, customers and other stakeholders, the Company’s risk appetite is aligned with its strategic priorities and goals. The Risk Management Group, led by the Company’s Chief Risk Officer, ensures the consistent application of Regions’ risk management approach within the structure of the Company’s operating, capital and strategic plans. The primary activities of the Risk Management Group include: • Interpreting internal and external signals that point to possible risk issues for the Company; • Identifying risks and determining which Company areas and/or products will be affected; • Ensuring there are mechanisms in place to specifically determine how risks will affect the Company as a whole and the individual area and or product; • Assisting business groups in analyzing trends and ensuring Company areas have appropriate risk identification and mitigation processes in place; and • Reviewing the limits, parameters, policies, and procedures in place to ensure the continued appropriateness of risk controls. As part of its ongoing assessment process, the Risk Management Group makes recommendations to management and the Risk Committee of the Board regarding adjustments to these controls as conditions or risk tolerances change. In addition, the Internal Audit division provides an independent assessment of the Company’s internal control structure and related systems and processes. Management, with the assistance of the Risk Management Group, follows a formal process for identifying, measuring and documenting key risks facing each business group and determining how those risks can be controlled or mitigated, as well as how the controls can be monitored to ensure they are effective. The Risk Committee receives reports from management to ensure operations are within the limits established by the Enterprise Risk Appetite Statement. Some of the more significant processes used by management to manage and control risks are described in the remainder of this report.  External factors beyond management’s control may result in losses despite the Risk Management Group’s efforts. EFFECTS OF INFLATION The majority of assets and liabilities of a financial institution are monetary in nature; therefore, a financial institution differs greatly from most commercial and industrial companies, which have significant investments in fixed assets or inventories that are greatly impacted by inflation. While the implications differ for a bank, inflation does have influence on the growth of total assets in the banking industry and the resulting level of capitalization. Inflation also affects the level of market interest rates, and therefore, the pricing of financial instruments. Management believes the most significant potential impact of inflation on financial results is a direct result of Regions’ability to manage the impact of changes in interest rates. The Company was asset sensitive as of December 31, 2022 , and therefore, net interest income benefits from higher interest rates. Recent hedging activity has reduced the exposure to net interest income due to changes in interest rates in the future. Forward starting hedges beginning in 2023 and beyond are designed to protect net interest income and net interest margin against the potential for interest rates to move lower. Refer to Table 25 "Interest Rate Sensitivity" for additional details on Regions’ interest rate sensitivity. Additionally, inflation has the potential to impact credit risk. Periods of inflation could influence asset prices and business input costs which could affect the ability of borrowers to repay loans. The Company has sound credit risk management practices to maintain a credit portfolio through the economic cycle. Refer to the "Credit Risk" section for further details on regions credit risk management process. EFFECTS OF DEFLATION A period of deflation would affect all industries, including financial institutions. Potentially, deflation could lead to lower profits, higher unemployment, lower production and deterioration in overall economic conditions. In addition, deflation could depress economic activity and impair bank earnings through reduced balance sheet growth and less favorable product pricing, as well as impairment in the ability of borrowers to repay loans. Management believes the most significant potential impact of deflation on financial results relates to Regions’ ability to maintain a sufficient amount of capital to cushion against future market and credit related losses. However, the Company can 78 Table of Contents utilize certain risk management tools to help it maintain its balance sheet strength even if a deflationary scenario were to develop. MARKET RISK—INTEREST RATE RISK Regions’ primary market risk is interest rate risk. This includes uncertainty with respect to absolute interest rate levels as well as relative interest rate levels, which are impacted by both the shape and the slope of the various yield curves that affect the financial products and services that the Company offers. To quantify this risk, Regions measures the change in its net interest income in various interest rate scenarios compared to a base case scenario. Net interest income sensitivity to market rate movements is a useful short-term indicator of Regions’ interest rate risk. Sensitivity Measurement—Financial simulation models are Regions’ primary tools used to measure interest rate exposure. Using a wide range of sophisticated simulation techniques provides management with extensive information on the potential impact to net interest income caused by changes in interest rates. Models are structured to simulate cash flows and accrual characteristics of Regions’ balance sheet. Assumptions are made about the direction and magnitude of interest rate movements, the slope of the yield curve, and the changing composition of the balance sheet that results from both strategic plans and customer behavior. Among the assumptions are expectations of balance sheet growth and composition, the pricing and maturity characteristics of existing business and the characteristics of future business. Interest rate-related risks are expressly considered, such as pricing spreads, the pricing of deposit accounts, prepayments and other option risks. Regions considers these factors, as well as the degree of certainty or uncertainty surrounding their future behavior. The primary objective of asset/liability management at Regions is to coordinate balance sheet composition with interest rate risk management to sustain reasonable and stable net interest income throughout various interest rate cycles. In computing interest rate sensitivity, Regions compares a set of alternative interest rate scenarios to the results of a base case scenario derived using “market forward rates.” The standard set of interest rate scenarios includes the instantaneous parallel rate shifts of plus and minus 100 and 200 basis points. In addition to parallel rate shifts, multiple curve steepening and flattening scenarios are contemplated. Regions includes simulations of gradual interest rate movements phased in over a six-month period that may more realistically mimic the speed of potential interest rate movements. Exposure to Interest Rate Movements—As of December 31, 2022, Regions was asset sensitive to both gradual and instantaneous parallel yield curve shifts as compared to the base case for the 12-month measurement horizon ending December 2023. The estimated exposure associated with the rising and falling rate scenarios in the table below reflects the combined impacts of movements in short-term and long-term interest rates. Currently, net interest income is projected to benefit from rising short-term interest rates (i.e. asset sensitive profile). An increase or reduction in short-term interest rates (such as the Fed Funds rate, the rate of Interest on Excess Reserves, 1 month LIBOR, SOFR and BSBY) will drive the yield on assets and liabilities contractually tied to such rates higher or lower. Under either environment, it is expected that changes in funding costs and balance sheet hedging income will only somewhat offset the change in asset yields. Net interest income remains exposed to intermediate and long term yield curve tenors. While this was a headwind to net interest income during a low rate environment, it represents a tailwind to net interest income growth as the yield curve rises. An increase in intermediate and long-term interest rates (such as intermediate to longer-term U.S. Treasuries, swaps and mortgage rates) will drive yields higher on certain fixed-rate, newly originated or renewed loans, increase prospective yields on certain investment portfolio purchases, and reduce amortization of premium expense on existing securities in the investment portfolio. The opposite is true in an environment where intermediate and long-term interest rates fall. The interest rate sensitivity analysis presented below in Table 25 is informed by a variety of assumptions and estimates regarding the progression of the balance sheet in both the baseline scenario as well as the scenarios of instantaneous and gradual shifts in the yield curve. Though there are many assumptions which affect the estimates for net interest income, those pertaining to deposit pricing, deposit mix and overall balance sheet composition are particularly impactful. Given the uncertainties associated with the impact of tightening monetary policy on industry liquidity levels and the cost of that liquidity, management evaluates the impact to its sensitivity analysis from these key assumptions. Sensitivity calculations are hypothetical and should not be considered to be predictive of future results. The Company’s baseline balance sheet assumptions include management's best estimate for balance sheet growth in the coming 12 months. In the fourth quarter of 2022, Regions experienced a continuation of declining low-cost deposit balances, both from the normalization of balances acquired from stimulative policies, as well as from late-cycle rate seeking behavior by higher balance customers. The baseline projects between $3 billion and $5 billion of additional deposit runoff over the first half of 2023, before balances stabilize and begin to modestly expand. An additional deposit outflow of $1 billion would reduce net interest income by $26 million over 12 months in the parallel +100 basis point scenario in Table 25. Conversely, if an additional $1 billion are retained a positive benefit of $26 million would be expected over 12 months in the parallel +100 basis point scenario in Table 25. 79 Table of Contents In rising rate scenarios only, management assumes that the mix of legacy deposits will change versus the base case as informed by analyses of prior rate cycles. Management assumes that in rising rate scenarios, some shift from non-interest- bearing to interest-bearing products will occur. The magnitude of the shift is rate dependent and equates to approximately $4 billion over 12 months in the parallel +100 basis point scenario in Table 25. Furthermore, over the 12 month horizon, an increase of $1 billion in deposit remixing would decrease net interest income by approximately $20 million, and a decrease of $1 billion in deposit remixing would increase net interest income by $20 million. The deposit beta is calibrated using the experience from prior rate cycles and is dynamic across both interest rate level and time. In the base case scenario, management expects a mid-30 percent full cycle beta by year-end 2023. The parallel +100 basis point shock scenario in Table 25 also incorporates an incremental beta of approximately 40 percent above the base case scenario. Incremental deposit pricing outperformance or underperformance of 5 percent in the parallel +100 basis point shock would increase or decrease net interest income by approximately $40 million. The table below summarizes Regions' positioning over the next 12 months in various parallel yield curve shifts (i.e., including all yield curve tenors). The scenarios are inclusive of all interest rate hedging activities. Some forward-starting swaps have starting dates beyond the next 12 months. Therefore, while the impact of hedges on reported exposure is limited, they will meaningfully reduce the net interest income sensitivity to changes in market interest rates when they enter the measurement window. More information regarding hedges is disclosed in Table 26 and its accompanying description. Table 25—Interest Rate Sensitivity ________ (1) Disclosed interest rate sensitivity levels represent the 12-month forward looking net interest income changes as compared to market forward rate cases and include expected balance sheet growth and remixing. (2) Active cash flow hedges reflected within the measurement horizon. Forward starting cash flow hedges already transacted will reduce sensitivity levels through 2023 as they move into the measurement horizon. See Table 27 for additional information regarding hedge start and maturity dates. Regions' comprehensive interest rate risk management approach uses derivatives, as discussed further below, and debt securities to manage its interest rate risk position. During the fourth quarter of 2022, as part of its dynamic balance sheet management strategy, the Company executed transactions to extend incremental downside rate protection over a longer horizon and modestly adjusted near-term protection, which included adding $4 billion in forward-starting cash flow swaps. Approximately $3 billion of cash flow swaps are forward starting, 3 year, receive-fixed swaps that become active in 2025 with a weighted average, receive-fixed rate of 3.35 percent, paying overnight SOFR. Approximately $1 billion are forward starting, 6 month, receive-fixed swaps that become active in January 2023 with a weighted average, receive-fixed rate of 4.41 percent, paying overnight SOFR. Subsequent to December 31, 2022, the Company entered into $1.5 billion of forward-starting, 3 year, receive-fixed swaps that become active in January 2026 with a weighted average, received-fix rate of 3.01% percent, paying overnight SOFR. Interest rate movements may also have an impact on the value of Regions’ securities portfolio, which can directly impact the carrying value of shareholders’ equity. Derivatives —Regions uses financial derivative instruments for management of interest rate sensitivity. ALCO, which consists of members of Regions’ senior management team, in its oversight role for the management of interest rate sensitivity, approves the use of derivatives in balance sheet hedging strategies. Derivatives are also used to offset the risks associated with customer derivatives, which include interest rate, credit, and foreign exchange risks. The most common derivatives Regions employs are forward rate contracts, futures contracts, interest rate swaps, options on interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and floors, and forward sale commitments. 80 Table of Contents Forward rate contracts are commitments to buy or sell financial instruments at a future date at a specified price or yield. Futures contracts subject Regions to market risk associated with changes in interest rates. Because futures contracts are cash settled daily, there is minimal credit risk associated with futures. Interest rate swaps are contractual agreements typically entered into to exchange fixed for variable (or vice versa) streams of interest payments. The notional principal is not exchanged but is used as a reference for the size of interest settlements. Interest rate options are contracts that allow the buyer to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a predetermined price and time. Forward sale commitments are contractual obligations to sell market instruments at a future date for an already agreed-upon price. Foreign currency contracts involve the exchange of one currency for another on a specified date and at a specified rate. These contracts are executed on behalf of the Company's customers and are used by customers to manage fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The Company is subject to the credit risk that another party will fail to perform. Regions has made use of interest rate swaps and floors in balance sheet hedging strategies to effectively convert a portion of its fixed-rate funding position to a variable-rate position, to effectively convert a portion of its fixed-rate debt securities available for sale portfolio to a variable-rate position, and to effectively convert a portion of its floating-rate loan portfolios to fixed-rate. Regions also uses derivatives to economically manage interest rate and pricing risk associated with its mortgage origination business. In the period of time that elapses between the origination and sale of mortgage loans, changes in interest rates have the potential to cause a decline in the value of the loans in this held-for-sale portfolio. Futures contracts and forward sale commitments are used to protect the value of the loan pipeline and loans held for sale from changes in interest rates and pricing. The following table presents additional information about hedging interest rate derivatives used by Regions to manage interest rate risk: Table 26—Hedging Derivatives by Interest Rate Risk Management Strategy _________ (1) Floating rates represent the most recent fixing for active derivatives and the first forward fixing for future starting derivatives. (2) Includes forward starting notional. For more information on notional by year, see Table 27. (3) Approximately $22 billion of hedges pay overnight SOFR. The following table presents the average asset hedge notional amounts that are active during each of the remaining annual periods. Asset hedge notional amounts mature prior to the end of 2031, with an immaterial amount of notional maturing in early 2032. Table 27—Schedule of Notional for Asset Hedging Derivatives _________ (1) All cash flow hedges are reflected within the 12-month measurement horizon and included in income sensitivity levels as disclosed in Table 25. Regions manages the credit risk of these instruments in much the same way as it manages credit risk of the loan portfolios by establishing credit limits for each counterparty and through collateral agreements for dealer transactions. For non-dealer transactions, the need for collateral is evaluated on an individual transaction basis and is primarily dependent on the financial strength of the counterparty. Credit risk is also reduced significantly by entering into legally enforceable master netting 81 Table of Contents agreements. When there is more than one transaction with a counterparty and there is a legally enforceable master netting agreement in place, the exposure represents the net of the gain and loss positions with and collateral received from and/or posted to that counterparty. Most hedging interest rate swap derivatives traded by Regions are subject to mandatory clearing. The counterparty risk for cleared trades effectively moves from the executing broker to the clearinghouse allowing Regions to benefit from the risk mitigation controls in place at the respective clearinghouse. The “Credit Risk” section in this report contains more information on the management of credit risk. Regions also uses derivatives to meet the needs of its customers. Interest rate swaps, interest rate options and foreign exchange forwards are the most common derivatives sold to customers. Other derivative instruments with similar characteristics are used to hedge market risk and minimize volatility associated with this portfolio. Instruments used to service customers are held in the trading account, with changes in value recorded in the consolidated statements of income. The primary objective of Regions’ hedging strategies is to mitigate the impact of interest rate changes, from an economic perspective, on net interest income and other financing income and the net present value of its balance sheet. The overall effectiveness of these hedging strategies is subject to market conditions, the quality of Regions’ execution, the accuracy of its valuation assumptions, counterparty credit risk and changes in interest rates. See Note 20 "Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities" to the consolidated financial statements for a tabular summary of Regions’ year-end derivatives positions and further discussion. Regions accounts for residential MSRs at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Regions enters into derivative transactions to economically mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to residential MSRs. Derivative instruments entered into in the future could be materially different from the current risk profile of Regions’ current portfolio. LIBOR TRANSITION On March 5, 2021, the FCA announced that LIBOR would not be available for use after December 31, 2021 and would not be published after June 30, 2023. Regions ceased origination of all new LIBOR-based lending on December 31, 2021. Existing contracts referencing USD LIBOR settings must be remediated no later than June 30, 2023. Regions holds instruments that may be impacted by the discontinuance of LIBOR, including loans, investments, derivative products, floating-rate obligations, and other financial instruments that use LIBOR as a benchmark rate. The Company has established a LIBOR Transition Program, which includes dedicated leadership and staff, with all relevant business lines and support groups engaged. As part of this program, the Company continues to identify, assess, and monitor risks associated with the discontinuation of LIBOR. Steps to mitigate risks associated with the transition are being overseen by Regions’ Executive LIBOR Steering Committee. Regions is following industry efforts to develop alternative reference rates and has been offering new benchmarks as they are adopted by regulatory agencies and industry groups. Regions has taken proactive steps to facilitate the transition on behalf of customers, which include: • The adoption and ongoing implementation of fallback provisions that provide for the determination of replacement rates for LIBOR-linked financial products. • The adoption of new products linked to alternative reference rates, such as adjustable-rate mortgages, consistent with guidance provided by the U.S. regulators, ARRC, and GSEs . • The discontinuation of LIBOR-based commercial lending on December 31, 2021, consistent with regulatory guidelines. Regions continues to evaluate its financial and operational infrastructure in its effort to transition all financial and strategic processes, systems, and models to reference rates other than LIBOR. Regions has also implemented processes to educate all client-facing associates and coordinate communications with customers regarding the transition. Regions has exposure to LIBOR-based products throughout several lines of business. As of December 31, 2022, Regions had the following exposures that reference LIBOR: • Approximately $13.5 billion of total commercial and investor real estate loans, of which approximately $12.0 billion mature after June 30, 2023; • Approximately $708.6 million of total consumer loans, all of which mature after June 30, 2023; • Securities within the investment portfolio of approximately $232 million, all of which mature after June 30, 2023; • Notional amount of interest rate derivatives totaling approximately $82.9 billion, of which approximately $73.9 billion mature after June 30, 2023; • Series B and C preferred stock with total carrying values of $ 433 million and $ 490 million, respectively, that reference LIBOR when their dividend rate begins to float after LIBOR is no longer published. 82 Table of Contents On March 15, 2022, the Adjustable Interest Rate Act was signed into law with the purpose of establishing a clear and uniform process for replacing LIBOR in existing contracts. Among the provisions of this legislation, contracts may be transitioned to SOFR to gain a legal safe harbor. The Company has assessed the impact of this legislation and expects to allow certain clients to fallback to SOFR upon the cessation of LIBOR, consistent with the guidelines in the legislation. In the third quarter of 2020, Regions adopted temporary accounting relief for affected transactions that reference LIBOR. See Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in Regions' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 for details. MARKET RISK—PREPAYMENT RISK Regions, like most financial institutions, is subject to changing prepayment speeds on mortgage-related assets under different interest rate environments. Prepayment risk is a significant risk to earnings and specifically to net interest income. For example, mortgage loans and other financial assets may be prepaid by a borrower, so that the borrower may refinance its obligations at lower rates. As loans and other financial assets prepay in a falling rate environment, Regions must reinvest these funds in lower-yielding assets. Prepayments of assets carrying higher rates reduce Regions’ interest income and overall asset yields. Conversely, in a rising rate environment, these assets will prepay at a slower rate, resulting in opportunity cost by not having the cash flow to reinvest at higher rates. Prepayment risk can also impact the value of securities and the carrying value of equity. Regions’ greatest exposures to prepayment risks primarily rest in its mortgage-backed securities portfolio, the mortgage fixed-rate loan portfolio and the residential MSR, all of which tend to be sensitive to interest rate movements. Each of these assets is also exposed to prepayment risk due to factors which are not necessarily the result of interest rates, but rather due to changes in policies or programs related, either directly or indirectly, to the U.S. Government's governance over certain lending and financing within the mortgage market. Such policies can work to either encourage or discourage financing dynamics and represent a risk that is extremely difficult to forecast and may be the result of non-economic factors. The Company attempts to monitor and manage such exposures within reasonable expectations while acknowledging all such risks cannot be foreseen or avoided. Further, Regions has prepayment risk that would be reflected in non-interest income in the form of servicing income on the residential MSRs. Regions actively monitors prepayment exposure as part of its overall net interest income forecasting and interest rate risk management. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity is an important factor in the financial condition of Regions and affects Regions’ ability to meet the needs of the Company and its customers. Regions’ goal in liquidity management is to maintain liquidity sources and reserves sufficient to satisfy the cash flow requirements of depositors and borrowers, under normal and stressed conditions. Accordingly, Regions maintains a variety of liquidity sources to fund its obligations, as further described below. Furthermore, Regions performs specific procedures, including scenario analyses and stress testing to evaluate and maintain appropriate levels of available liquidity in alignment with liquidity risk. Regions' operation of its business provides a generally balanced liquidity base which is comprised of customer assets, consisting principally of loans, and funding provided by customer deposits and borrowed funds. Maturities in the loan portfolio provide a steady flow of funds, and are supplemented by Regions' deposit base. See Note 4 "Loans", Note 10 "Deposits", and Note 11 "Borrowed Funds" to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. The securities portfolio also serves as a primary source and storehouse of liquidity. Proceeds from maturities and principal and interest payments of securities provide a continual flow of funds available for cash needs (see Note 3 "Debt Securities" to the consolidated financial statements). Furthermore, the highly liquid nature of the portfolio (for example, the agency guaranteed MBS portfolio) can be readily used as a source of cash through various secured borrowing arrangements. Cash reserves, liquid assets and secured borrowing capabilities (including borrowing capacity at the FHLB, as discussed below) aid in the management of liquidity in normal and stressed conditions, and/or meeting the need of contingent events such as obligations related to potential litigation. See Note 23 "Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees" to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of the Company’s funding requirements. Liquidity needs can also be met by borrowing funds in national money markets, though Regions does maintain limits on short-term unsecured funding due to the volatility that can affect such markets. The balance with the FRB is the primary component of the balance sheet line item, “interest-bearing deposits in other banks.” At December 31, 2022, Regions had approximately $9.2 billion in cash on deposit with the FRB and other depository institutions, a decrease from approximately $28.1 billion at December 31, 2021, as cash balances have been used to fund loan growth and for securities purchases throughout 2022 and as the Company has experienced deposit declines as a result of normalizing pandemic liquidity. The average balance held with the FRB was approximately $18.4 billion and $22.8 billion during 2022 and 2021, respectively. Refer to the "Cash and Cash Equivalents" section for more information. Regions’ borrowing availability with the FRB as of December 31, 2022, based on assets pledged as collateral on that date, was $13.2 billion. 83 Table of Contents Regions’ financing arrangement with the FHLB adds additional flexibility in managing the Company's liquidity position. As of December 31, 2022, Regions had no FHLB borrowings and its total borrowing capacity from the FHLB totaled approximately $14.5 billion. FHLB borrowing capacity is contingent on the amount of collateral pledged to the FHLB. Regions Bank pledged certain eligible securities and loans as collateral for FHLB advances and future borrowing capacity. Additionally, investment in FHLB stock is required in relation to the level of outstanding borrowings. The FHLB has been and is expected to continue to be a reliable and economical source of funding. Refer to Note 7 "Other Earning Assets" to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Regions maintains a shelf registration statement with the SEC that can be utilized by Regions to issue various debt and/or equity securities. Additionally, Regions' Board has authorized Regions Bank to issue up to $10 billion in aggregate principal amount of bank notes outstanding at any one time. Refer to Note 11 "Borrowed Funds" to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Regions may, from time to time, consider opportunistically retiring outstanding issued securities, including subordinated debt in privately negotiated or open market transactions for cash or common shares. Regulatory approval would be required for retirement of some instruments. See Note 14 "Shareholders' Equity and Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)" to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. In addition to the liquidity sources and obligations discussed above, the Company also has other contractual obligations, which include unused commitments to extend credit, property leases, employee benefit obligations, and commitments to fund low income housing tax partnerships. See Note 23 "Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees",  Note 13 "Leases",  Note 17 "Employee Benefit Plans", and Note 2 "Variable Interest Entities" to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion regarding these obligations. Regions' liquidity policy requires the holding company to maintain cash sufficient to cover the greater of (1) 18 months of debt service and other cash needs or (2) a minimum cash balance of $500 million. Cash and cash equivalents at the holding company totaled $1.6 billion at December 31, 2022. Overall liquidity risk limits are established by the Board through its Risk Appetite Statement and Liquidity Policy. The Company's Board, LROC and ALCO regularly review compliance with the established limits. CREDIT RISK Regions’ objective regarding credit risk is to maintain a credit portfolio that provides for stable credit costs with acceptable volatility through an economic cycle. Regions has various processes to manage credit risk as described below. In order to assess the risk profile of the loan portfolio, Regions considers risk factors within the loan portfolio segments and classes, the current U.S. economic environment and that of its primary banking markets, as well as counterparty risk. See the "Portfolio Characteristics" section found earlier in this report for further information regarding the risk characteristics of each loan type. See further discussion of the current U.S. economic environment in the "Economic Environment in Regions' Banking Markets" section and counterparty risk below. Management Process Credit risk is managed by maintaining a sound credit risk culture, throughout all lines of defense, which ensures that the levels and types of risk taken are aligned with Regions' credit risk appetite.  The credit quality of borrowers and counterparties has a significant impact on Regions' earnings; however, the nature of the risk differs by each of the defined businesses which engage in multiple forms of commercial, investor real estate and consumer lending.  Regions categorizes the credit risks it faces by asset quality, counterparty exposure, and diversification levels which provides a structure to assess credit risk and guides credit decision-making.  Credit policies, another key component of Regions' culture, are designed and adjusted, as needed, to promote sound credit risk management. These policies guide lending activities in a manner consistent with Regions' strategy and provide a framework for achieving asset quality and earnings objectives. Effective credit risk management requires coordinated identification, measurement, mitigation, monitoring and reporting of credit risk exposure, credit quality, and emerging risk trends. Accordingly, Regions has implemented a credit risk governance structure that provides oversight from the Board to the organizational units in order to maintain open channels of communication. Occasionally, borrowers and counterparties do not fulfill their obligations and Regions must take steps to mitigate and manage losses.  Teams are in place to appropriately identify and manage nonperforming loans, collections, loan modifications, and loss mitigation efforts. Regions maintains an allowance for credit losses that management considers adequate to absorb expected losses in the portfolio. For a discussion of the process and methodology used to calculate the allowance for credit losses refer to the “Critical Accounting Estimates and Related Policies” section found earlier in this report, Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 5 "Allowance for Credit Losses" to the consolidated financial statements. Details regarding the allowance for credit losses, including an analysis of activity from the previous year’s total, are included in Table 16 "Allowance for Credit 84 Table of Contents Losses". Also, refer to Table 17 "Allowance Allocation" for details pertaining to management’s allocation of the allowance to each loan category. Responsibility and accountability for effectively managing all risks, including credit risk, in the various business units lies with the first line of defense. Risk Management, in the second line of defense, oversees, assesses and effectively challenges the risk-taking activities of the first line of defense. Finally, Credit Risk Review provides ongoing oversight, as a third line of defense function, of the credit portfolios to ensure Regions’ activities, and controls, are appropriate for the size, complexity and risk profile of the Company. Counterparty Risk Counterparty risk is the risk that the counterparty to a transaction or contract could be unable or unwilling to fulfill its contractual or legal obligations. Exposure may be to a financial institution (such as a commercial bank, an insurance company, a broker dealer, etc.) or a corporate client. Regions has a centralized approach to approval, management, and monitoring of counterparty exposure. The Counterparty Risk Management Group is responsible for the independent credit risk management of financial institution counterparties and their affiliates. Market Risk Management is responsible for the measurement and stress testing of counterparty exposures. The Corporate and Commercial Credit groups are responsible for the independent credit risk management of client side counterparties. Financial institution exposure may result from a variety of transaction types generated in one or more departments of the Company. Aggregate exposure limits are established to manage the exposure generated by various areas of the Company. Counterparty client credit risk arises when Regions sells a risk management product to hedge risks in the client’s business. Exposures to counterparties are aggregated across departments and regularly reported to senior management. INFORMATION SECURITY RISK Regions faces information security risks, such as evolving and adaptive cyber-attacks that are conducted regularly against financial institutions in attempts to compromise or disable information systems. Such attempts have increased in recent years, and the trend is expected to continue for a number of reasons, including increases in technology-based products and services used by us and our customers, the growing use of mobile, cloud, and other emerging technologies, and the increasing sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, nation-states, activists and other external parties or fraud on the part of employees. Regions devotes significant financial and non-financial resources to identify and mitigate threats to the confidentiality, availability and integrity of its information systems. Regions regularly assesses the threats and vulnerabilities to its environment so it can update and maintain its systems and controls to effectively mitigate these risks. Layered security controls are designed to complement each other to protect customer information and transactions. Regions regularly tests its control environment utilizing practices such as penetration testing and more targeted assessments to ensure its controls are working as expected. Regions will continue to commit the resources necessary to mitigate these growing cyber risks, as well as continue to develop and enhance controls, processes and technology to respond to evolving disruptive technology and to protect its systems from attacks or unauthorized access. In addition, Regions maintains a strong commitment to a comprehensive risk management program that includes due diligence and oversight of third-party relationships with vendors. Regions’ system of internal controls also incorporates an organization-wide protocol for the appropriate reporting and escalation of information security matters to management and the Board, to ensure effective and efficient resolution and, if necessary, disclosure of any matters. The Board is actively engaged in the oversight of Regions’ continuous efforts to reinforce and enhance its operational resilience and receives education to ensure that their oversight efforts accommodate for the ever-evolving information security threat landscape. The Board monitors Regions’ information management risk policies and practices primarily through its Risk Committee, which oversees areas of operational risk such as information technology activities; risks associated with development, infrastructure, and cybersecurity; approval and oversight of internal and third-party information security risk assessments, strategies, policies and programs; and disaster recovery, business continuity, and incident response plans. Additionally, the Board’s Audit Committee regularly reviews Regions’ cybersecurity practices, mainly by receiving reports on the cybersecurity management program prepared by the Chief Information Security Officer, Risk Management, and Internal Audit. The Board’s Technology Committee, formed in February 2022, is charged with oversight of the overall role of technology in executing Regions’ business strategy and coordinates with the Risk Committee on risk assessment and management associated with technology-related strategic investments, major technology vendor relationships, and risks associated with information technology and security activities. The Board annually reviews the information security program and, through its various committees, is briefed at least quarterly on information security matters. Regions participates in information sharing organizations such as FS-ISAC to gather and share information with peer banks and other financial institutions to better prepare and protect its information systems from attack. FS-ISAC is a nonprofit organization whose objective is to protect the financial services sector against cyber and physical threats and risk. It acts as a trusted third party that provides anonymity to allow members to submit threat, vulnerability and incident information in a non- 85 Table of Contents attributable and trusted manner so information that would normally not be shared is instead made available to other members for the greater good of the membership. In addition to FS-ISAC, Regions is a member of BITS. BITS serves the financial community and its members by providing industry best practices on a variety of security and fraud topics. Regions has contracts with vendors to provide denial of service mitigation. These vendors have also committed the necessary resources to support Regions in the event of a cyber event. Even though Regions devotes significant resources to combat cyber security risks, there is no guarantee that these measures will provide absolute security. As an additional security measure, Regions has engaged a computer forensics firm and an industry-leading consulting firm on retainer in case of a cyber event. Regions has also developed and maintains robust business continuity and disaster recovery plans that it could implement in the event of a cyber event to mitigate the effects of any such event and minimize necessary recovery time. Some of Regions' financial risk exposure with respect to data breaches may be offset by applicable insurance. Even when Regions successfully prevents cyber-attacks to its own network, the Company may still incur losses that result from customers' account information being obtained through breaches of retailers' networks that enable customer transactions. The related fraud losses, as well as the costs of re-issuing new cards, may impact Regions' financial results. In addition, Regions also relies on some vendors to provide certain business infrastructure components, and although Regions actively assesses and monitors the information security capabilities of these vendors, Regions' reliance on them may also increase exposure to information security risk. In the event of a cyber-attack or other data breach, Regions may be required to incur significant expenses, including with respect to remediation costs, costs of implementing additional preventative measures, addressing any reputational harm and addressing any related regulatory inquiries or civil litigation arising from the event. ACQUISITIONS EnerBank On October 1, 2021, Regions completed its acquisition of home improvement lender EnerBank. The acquisition of EnerBank allows Regions to provide customers with home improvement financing solutions using EnerBank's loan programs and digital solutions to support a wide range of home improvement needs. As a result of the acquisition, Regions recorded approximately $3.3 billion of assets of which $3.1 billion were loans that are included in Regions' other consumer loan portfolio. Regions also assumed $2.8 billion of liabilities, consisting almost entirely of time deposits that the Company expects will attrite over time. The premiums recorded related to the acquired assets and assumed liabilities were immaterial. Regions recorded PCD loans of $198 million as a result of the acquisition. Regions recorded an immaterial ALLL related to these loans, which was included in the total acquired asset value as part of the acquisition. In conjunction with the acquisition, Regions recognized initial goodwill of $361 million and other intangible assets of $176 million. The other intangible assets were primarily comprised of customer relationship intangibles and will be amortized over the expected useful life of each recognized asset. Sabal On December 1, 2021, Regions completed its acquisition of Sabal, a financial services firm that leverages technology to facilitate off-balance-sheet lending in the small balance commercial real estate market. As a result of the acquisition, Regions recorded approximately $360 million of assets, which included loans held for sale totaling $82 million, as well as a commercial mortgage servicing asset and securities that were immaterial. Regions also assumed $114 million of liabilities, consisting primarily of borrowings that were paid off following closing. In conjunction with the acquisition, Regions recognized initial goodwill of $146 million and other intangible assets that were immaterial. FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE AND INTERNAL CONTROLS Regions maintains internal controls over financial reporting, which generally include those controls relating to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP.  Regions’ process for evaluating internal controls over financial reporting starts with understanding the risks facing each of its functions and areas, how those risks are controlled or mitigated, and how management monitors those controls to ensure that they are in place and effective. These risks, control procedures and monitoring tools are documented in a standard format. This format not only documents the internal control structures over all significant accounts, but also places responsibility on management for establishing feedback mechanisms to ensure that controls are effective. Regions also has processes to ensure appropriate disclosure controls and procedures are maintained. These controls and procedures as defined by the SEC are generally designed to ensure that financial and non-financial information required to be disclosed in reports filed with the SEC is reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such 86 Table of Contents information is communicated to management, including the CEO and CFO, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Regions’ Disclosure Review Committee, which includes representatives from the legal, tax, finance, risk management, accounting, investor relations, and treasury departments, meets quarterly to review recent internal and external events to determine whether all appropriate disclosures have been made in reports filed with the SEC. In addition, the CEO and CFO meet quarterly with the SEC Filings Review Committee, which includes senior representatives from accounting, legal, risk management, treasury, and the business groups. The SEC Filings Review Committee provides a forum in which senior executives disclose to the CEO and CFO any known significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in Regions’ internal controls over financial reporting, and provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements and other contents of the Company’s Form 10-K and 10-Q filings are accurate, complete, and timely. As part of this process, certifications of internal control effectiveness are obtained from Regions’ associates who are responsible for maintaining and monitoring effective internal controls over financial reporting. These certifications are reviewed and presented to the CEO and CFO as support of the Company’s assessment of internal controls over financial reporting. The Form 10-K is presented to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors for approval, and the Forms 10-Q are reviewed by the Audit Committee. Financial results and other financial information are also reviewed with the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. As required by Sections 302 and 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the CEO and the CFO review and make certifications regarding the accuracy of Regions’ periodic public reports filed with the SEC, as well as the effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. With the assistance of the financial review committees noted in the previous paragraph, Regions continually assesses and monitors disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and makes refinements as necessary. COMPARISON OF 2021 WITH 2020 Refer to the “2021 Results” and "Operating Results" sections of Management's Discussion and Analysis of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, for comparisons of 2021 with 2020.