********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

There are risks associated with an investment in our securities. The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risk factors could materially adversely affect our business, including our prospects, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, the trading price of our securities, and/or the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently view as immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business in future periods or if circumstances change. Risks Related to Macroeconomic Conditions Infectious disease outbreaks, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business could be adversely affected by infectious disease outbreaks, such as the novel strain of coronavirus commonly referred to as COVID-19. COVID-19, which emerged beginning in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2020, has spread rapidly across the globe, including throughout all major geographies in which we operate (North America, Europe, and Asia), resulting in adverse economic conditions and business disruptions, as well as significant volatility in global financial markets. Governments worldwide have periodically imposed varying degrees of preventative and protective actions, such as temporary travel bans, stay-at-home orders, and forced business closures or other operational restrictions, including reduced capacity limits and operating hours, all in an effort to reduce the spread of the virus. Such factors, among others, have resulted in a significant decline in retail traffic, tourism, and consumer spending on discretionary items. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have experienced varying degrees of business disruptions and periods of closure of our stores, distribution centers, and corporate facilities, as have our wholesale customers, licensing partners, suppliers, and vendors, as described in Item 1 — "Business — Recent Developments." Collectively, these disruptions have had a material adverse impact on our business throughout the pandemic, particularly during Fiscal 2021. Despite the introduction of COVID-19 vaccines, the pandemic remains highly volatile and continues to evolve, including the emergence of variants of the virus, such as the Delta and Omicron variants, which has and could continue to adversely affect consumer sentiment and confidence. Accordingly, we cannot predict for how long and to what extent this crisis will continue to impact our business operations or the overall global economy. Potential impacts to our business include, but are not limited to: • our ability to successfully execute our long-term growth strategy; • reduced retail traffic at our stores and those of our wholesale customers and licensing partners due to forced closures or other operational restrictions, such as reduced capacity limits and operating hours, declines in tourism, and/or potential changes in consumer behavior and shopping preferences, such as their willingness to congregate in shopping centers or other populated locations and the overall growing preference to shop online versus at traditional brick and mortar locations; • potential declines in the level of consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, including our products, caused by higher unemployment and lower disposal income levels, inflationary pressures, travel and social gathering restrictions, work-from-home arrangements, or other factors beyond our control; • the potential build-up of excess inventory as a result of store closures and/or lower consumer demand; • temporary closures or other operational restrictions of our distribution centers and/or corporate facilities; • supply chain disruptions resulting from closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials, shipping and loading capacity constraints, and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas, including any related cost increases; • our ability to attract, retain, and manage employees in the current environment, which include remote working arrangements; • additional costs to protect the health and safety of our employees, customers, and communities, such as more frequent and thorough cleanings of our facilities and supplying personal protection equipment; • the potential loss of one or more of our significant wholesale customers or licensing partners, or the loss of a large number of smaller wholesale customers or licensing partners, if they are not able to withstand prolonged periods of adverse economic conditions, and our ability to collect outstanding receivables; • increased vulnerability to data security or privacy breaches as a result of a substantial portion of our corporate employees continuing to work remotely; • our ability to successfully negotiate with landlords to obtain rent abatements, rent deferrals, and other relief; • our ability to access capital markets and maintain compliance with covenants associated with our existing debt instruments, as well as the ability of our key customers, suppliers, and vendors to do the same with regard to their own obligations; • our ability to generate sufficient cash flows to support our operations, including repayment of our debt obligations as they become due, as well as to return value to our shareholders in the form of dividend payments and repurchases of our common stock; • diversion of management attention and resources from ongoing business activities and/or a decrease in employee morale; and • our ability to maintain an effective system of internal controls and compliance with the requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Additional discussion related to the various risks and uncertainties described above is included elsewhere within this "Risk Factors" section of this Form 10-K. Economic, political, and other conditions may adversely affect the level of consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, including our products. The industries in which we operate are cyclical. Many economic and other factors outside of our control affect the level of consumer spending in the apparel, footwear, accessory, and home product industries, including, among others, man-made or natural disasters, such as pandemic diseases; consumer perceptions of personal well-being and safety; consumer perceptions of current and future economic conditions; employment levels and wage rates; stock market performance; inflation; interest rates; foreign currency exchange rates; the housing market; consumer debt levels; the availability of consumer credit; commodity prices, including fuel and energy costs; global food supplies; taxation; general domestic and international political conditions; the threat, outbreak, or escalation of terrorism, military conflicts, or other hostilities; and weather conditions. Consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, including our products, tend to decline during periods of recession or high inflation and at other times when disposable income is lower. Unfavorable economic conditions and other factors, such as pandemic diseases and other health-related concerns, political unrest, military conflicts, and acts of terrorism, may also reduce consumers' willingness and ability to travel to major cities and vacation destinations in which our stores and shop-within-shops are located. Further, consumers may prefer to spend more of their discretionary income on "experiences," such as dining and entertainment, over consumer goods. Stay-at-home orders, social gathering restrictions, and work-from-home arrangements, such as those resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, may also diminish consumers' demand for luxury apparel products. Accordingly, a downturn or an uncertain outlook in the economies in which we, or our wholesale customers and licensing partners, sell our products, or other changes in consumer preferences, may materially adversely affect our business. Economic conditions could have a negative impact on our major customers, suppliers, vendors, and lenders, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business. Although we believe that our existing cash and investments, cash provided by operations, and available borrowing capacity under our credit and overdraft facilities and commercial paper borrowing program will provide us with sufficient liquidity, the impact of economic conditions on our major customers, suppliers, vendors, and lenders, including those resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, and their ability to access global capital markets cannot be predicted. The inability of major manufacturers to ship our products could impair our ability to meet the delivery date requirements of our customers. Deterioration in global financial or capital markets could affect our ability to access sources of liquidity to provide for our future cash needs, increase the cost of any future financing, or cause our lenders to be unable to meet their funding commitments under our credit and overdraft facilities. A disruption in the ability of our significant customers to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses which could lead to a significant reduction in their future orders of our products and the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business is exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations. Our business is exposed to foreign currency exchange risk. Specifically, changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies impact our financial results from a transactional perspective, as our foreign operations generally purchase inventory in U.S. dollars, as is common for most apparel companies. Given that we source most of our products overseas, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. Changes in currency exchange rates may also impact consumers' willingness or ability to travel abroad and/or purchase our products while traveling, as well as affect the U.S. Dollar value of the foreign currency denominated prices at which our international businesses sell products. Additionally, the operating results and financial position of our international subsidiaries are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as their financial results are translated from the respective local currency into U.S. Dollars during the financial statement consolidation process. The foreign currencies to which we are exposed to from a transactional and translational perspective primarily include the Euro, the Japanese Yen, the South Korean Won, the Australian Dollar, the Canadian Dollar, the British Pound Sterling, the Swiss Franc, and the Chinese Renminbi. The expansion of our international business increases our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. Although we hedge certain exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates arising in the ordinary course of business, we cannot fully anticipate all of our currency exposures and therefore foreign currency fluctuations may have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, factors that could impact the effectiveness of our hedging activities include the volatility of currency markets, the accuracy of forecasted transactions, and the availability of hedging instruments. As such, our hedging activities may not completely mitigate the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations. See Item 7 — "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Market Risk Management." Risks Related to our Strategic Initiatives and Restructuring Activities We cannot assure the successful implementation of our growth strategy. We have developed a long-term growth strategy with the objective of delivering sustainable, profitable growth and long-term value creation for shareholders, as described in Item 1 — "Business — Objectives and Opportunities." Our ability to successfully execute our growth strategy is subject to various risks and uncertainties, as described herein. Although we believe that our growth strategy will lead to long-term growth in revenue and profitability, there can be no assurance regarding the timing of or extent to which we will realize the anticipated benefits, if at all. Our failure to realize the anticipated benefits, which may be due to our inability to execute the various elements of our growth strategy, changes in consumer preferences, competition, economic conditions (including inflationary pressures), and other risks described herein, including those related to the COVID-19 pandemic and supply chain challenges, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Such a failure could also result in the implementation of additional restructuring-related activities beyond those currently planned, which may be dilutive to our earnings in the short term. Achievement of our growth strategy may require investment in new capabilities, distribution channels, and technologies. These investments may result in short-term costs without accompanying current revenues and, therefore, may be dilutive to our earnings in the short term. There can be no assurance regarding the timing of or extent to which we will realize the anticipated benefits of these investments and other costs, if at all. We may not be successful in the expansion of our multi-channel distribution network or accelerating growth in certain product categories. Implementation of our growth strategy involves the continuation and expansion of our multi-channel distribution network, including within international markets such as China, which is subject to many factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to (i) identify new or underpenetrated markets where our products and brand will be accepted by consumers; (ii) attract customers, particularly in new markets; (iii) identify desirable freestanding and department store locations, the availability of which may be out of our control; (iv) negotiate acceptable lease terms, including desired tenant improvement allowances; (v) efficiently and cost effectively build-out stores and shop-within-shops; (vi) source sufficient inventory levels timely to meet the needs of the new stores and shop-within-shops; (vii) hire, train, and retain competent store personnel; and (viii) integrate new stores and shop-within-shops into our existing systems and operations. Any of these challenges could delay or otherwise prevent us from successfully executing our distribution expansion strategy. There can be no assurance that our new stores and shop-within-shops will be successful and profitable or if the capital costs associated with the build-out of such new locations will be recovered. Further, entry into new markets may bring us into competition with new or existing competitors that have a more established market presence than us or other competitive advantages. Other risks related to our international expansion plans include (i) changes in general economic conditions in specific countries and markets, including those resulting from pandemic diseases, civil or political instability, or military conflicts; (ii) changes in diplomatic and trade relationships and any resulting anti-American sentiment; (iii) foreign government regulation; and (iv) restrictions on the repatriation of funds held internationally, among other risks described herein. If our expansion plans are unsuccessful or do not deliver an appropriate return on our investments, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. The success of our business also depends largely on our ability to continue to maintain, enhance, and expand our digital footprint and capabilities. In recent years, consumers have been increasingly shopping online using computers, smartphones, tablets, and other devices, and using such devices to perform comparison shopping on a real-time basis. The COVID-19 pandemic has further amplified this trend due in part to travel bans, stay-at-home orders, forced business closures, and other operational restrictions, which impede upon the ease at which consumers can shop at brick and mortar locations. Many consumers may also prefer to avoid populated locations, such as indoor shopping centers, in fear of exposing themselves to the virus or other infectious diseases. Any failure on our part, or on the part of our third-party digital partners, to provide attractive, reliable, secure, and user-friendly digital commerce platforms, including mobile apps, could negatively impact our customers' shopping experience resulting in reduced website traffic, diminished loyalty to our brands, and lost sales. In addition, as we continue to expand and increase the global presence of our digital commerce business, sales from our brick and mortar stores and wholesale channels of distribution in areas where digital commerce sites are introduced may decline due to changes in consumer shopping habits and cannibalization. Our growth strategy also includes accelerating growth in certain high-value, underdeveloped product categories, comprised of denim, wear to work, outerwear, footwear, and accessories. We compete with other retailers in these product categories, some of which may be significantly larger than us and more established in these product categories, and competition is intense, as described within other risk factors herein. There can be no assurance that our targeted expansion in these product categories will be successful. The success of our business depends on our ability to respond to constantly changing fashion and retail trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner, develop products that resonate with our existing customers and attract new customers, and provide a seamless shopping experience to our customers. The industries in which we operate have historically been subject to rapidly changing fashion trends and consumer preferences. Our success depends in large part on our ability to originate and define fashion product and home product trends, as well as to anticipate, gauge, and react to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers worldwide whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change, influenced by fashion trends, economic conditions, and weather conditions, among other factors. This issue is further compounded by the increasing use of digital and social media by consumers and the speed by which information and opinions are shared across the globe. We cannot assure that we will be able to continue to develop appealing styles or successfully meet constantly changing consumer preferences in the future. In addition, we cannot assure that any new products or brands that we introduce will be successfully received by consumers. Any failure on our part to anticipate, identify, and respond effectively to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends could adversely affect consumer acceptance of our products and leave us with a substantial amount of unsold inventory or missed opportunities. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business. For a discussion of risks related to our inventory management, see "Risks Related to our Strategic Initiatives and Restructuring Activities — Our profitability may decline if we are unable to effectively manage inventory or as a result of increasing pressure on margins." Our marketing and advertising programs are integral to the success of our product offerings and on our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers. Our communication campaigns are increasingly being executed through digital and social media platforms to drive further engagement with the younger consumer, with a focus on influencers. However, we cannot assure that our marketing and advertising programs will be successful or appeal to consumers. The success of our business also depends on our ability to continue to develop and maintain a reliable omni-channel experience for our customers, as well as our ability to introduce new Connected Retail capabilities, such as virtual selling appointments, Buy Online-Pick Up in Store, and mobile checkout and contactless payments, among other capabilities. Our business has evolved from an in-store experience to a shopping experience through multiple technologies, including computers, smartphones, tablets, and other devices, as our customers have become increasingly technologically savvy and expect a seamless omni-channel experience regardless of whether they are shopping in stores or online. We are increasingly using digital and social media platforms to interact with customers and enhance their shopping experience. If we are unable to develop and continuously improve our customer-facing technologies, the efforts of which typically require significant capital investments, we may not be able to provide a convenient and consistent experience to our customers regardless of the sales channel. This could negatively affect our ability to compete with other retailers and result in diminished loyalty to our brands, which could adversely impact our business. We have also implemented, and expect to continue to implement, new store design concepts and other renovations to our existing store portfolio as part of our growth strategy. There can be no assurance that any of our store designs will resonate with customers or otherwise achieve the desired sales and profitability measures necessary to recover our initial capital investments, and such risks may be further compounded during periods of adverse economic conditions. If customers are not receptive to the design layout or visual merchandising of our stores, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, the failure of our store designs to achieve acceptable results could lead to asset impairment charges and/or our decision to close a store prior to the lease expiration date resulting in other store closure-related charges, including early lease termination fees. For additional discussion of risks related to the early termination of our leases, see "Risks Related to our Business and Operations — Our business is subject to risks associated with leasing real estate and other assets under long-term, non-cancellable leases." Our profitability may decline if we are unable to effectively manage inventory or as a result of increasing pressure on margins. We have implemented key strategic initiatives designed to optimize our inventory levels and improve the efficiency and responsiveness of our supply chain. Although we have shortened lead times for the design, sourcing, and production of certain of our product lines, we expect to continue to place orders with our vendors for the majority of products in advance of the related selling season. As a result, we are vulnerable to changes in consumer preferences and demand and pricing shifts. Our failure to continue to shorten lead times or to correctly anticipate consumer preferences and demand could result in the build-up of excess inventory. Other factors beyond our control could also result in the build-up of excess inventory, including unforeseen adverse economic conditions or business disruptions, such as those caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Excess inventory levels could result in the utilization of less-preferred distribution channels, markdowns, promotional sales, donations, or destruction to dispose of such excess or slow-moving inventory, which may negatively impact our overall profitability and/or impair the image of our brands. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if manufacturers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages, which may negatively impact customer relationships, diminish brand loyalty, and result in lost sales. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, our industry is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition and a highly promotional retail environment, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to reduce the costs of products, and changes in consumer spending patterns. Although we continue to limit our promotional activity in connection with our quality of sales initiatives, these factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, which could cause our gross margin to decline if we are unable to appropriately manage inventory levels and/or otherwise offset price reductions with comparable reductions in our costs. If our sales prices decline and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, our profitability will decline. In addition, changes in our customer, channel, and geographic sales mix could have a negative impact on our profitability. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not fully realize the expected cost savings and/or operating efficiencies from our restructuring plans. We have implemented restructuring plans to support key strategic initiatives, such as the Fiscal 2021 Strategic Realignment Plan, as described in Item 1 — "Business — Recent Developments." Although designed to deliver long-term sustainable growth, restructuring plans present significant potential risks that may impair our ability to achieve anticipated operating enhancements and/or cost reductions, or otherwise harm our business, including (i) higher than anticipated costs in implementing planned workforce reductions, particularly in highly regulated locations outside the U.S.; (ii) higher than anticipated lease termination and store or facility closure costs (see "Risks Related to our Business and Operations — Our business is subject to risks associated with leasing real estate and other assets under long-term, non-cancellable leases" ); (iii) failure to meet operational targets or customer requirements due to the loss of employees or inadequate transfer of knowledge; (iv) failure to maintain adequate controls and procedures while executing, and subsequent to completing, our restructuring plans; (v) diversion of management attention and resources from ongoing business activities and/or a decrease in employee morale; (vii) attrition beyond any planned reduction in workforce; and (viii) damage to our reputation and brand image due to our restructuring-related activities. If we are not successful in implementing and managing our restructuring plans, we may not be able to achieve targeted operating enhancements, sales growth, and/or cost reductions, which could adversely impact our business. Our failure to achieve targeted results for any reason, including business disruptions from pandemic diseases such as COVID-19, could also lead to the implementation of additional restructuring-related activities, which may be dilutive to our earnings in the short term. Risks Related to our Business and Operations The loss of the services of Mr. Ralph Lauren or any other changes to our executive and senior management team may be disruptive to, or cause uncertainty in, our business. Mr. Ralph Lauren's leadership in the design and marketing areas of our business has been a critical element of our success since the inception of our Company. Mr. R. Lauren is instrumental to, and closely identified with, our brand that bears his name. Our ability to maintain our brand image and leverage the goodwill associated with Mr. R. Lauren's name may be damaged if we were to lose his services. The death or disability of Mr. R. Lauren or other extended or permanent loss of his services, or any negative market or industry perception with respect to him or arising from his loss, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We also depend on the service and management experience of other key executive officers and members of senior management who have substantial experience and expertise in our industry and our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. Competition in our industry to attract and retain these employees is intense and is influenced by our reputation, our ability to offer competitive compensation and benefits, and economic conditions, among other factors. Any changes in our executive and senior management team, including those resulting from our restructuring actions, may be disruptive to, or cause uncertainty in, our business and future strategic direction. The departure of any key individuals and the failure to ensure a smooth transition and effective transfer of knowledge involving senior employees could hinder or delay our strategic planning and execution, as well as adversely affect our ability to attract and retain other experienced and talented employees. Furthermore, the retail industry (among others) has been adversely affected by overall labor shortages resulting from a combination of the COVID-19 pandemic, labor disputes, strikes, and other factors. The introduction of new work arrangements and company-specific requirements regarding when and how often employees are required to work on-site versus remotely may also impact companies' ability to attract and retain employees. The departure of key individuals or our failure to maintain sufficient employee staffing levels could have a material adverse impact on our business, as well as impede our ability to maintain an effective system of internal controls and compliance with the requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are not protected by a material amount of key-man or similar life insurance covering our executive officers, including Mr. R. Lauren, or other members of senior management. We have entered into employment agreements with certain of our executive officers, but competition for experienced executives in our industry is intense and the non-compete period with respect to certain of our executive officers could, in some circumstances in the event of their termination of employment with our Company, end prior to the employment term set forth in their employment agreements. We face intense competition worldwide in the markets in which we operate. We face increasing competition from companies selling apparel, footwear, accessories, home, and other of our product categories through the Internet. Although we sell our products through the Internet, increased competition and promotional activity in the worldwide apparel, footwear, accessory, and home product industries from Internet-based competitors could reduce our sales, prices, and margins. We also face intense competition from other domestic and foreign fashion-oriented apparel, footwear, accessory, and casual apparel producers that sell products through brick and mortar stores and wholesale and licensing channels. We compete with these companies primarily on the basis of: • anticipating and responding in a timely fashion to changing consumer demands and shopping preferences, including the ever-increasing shift to digital brand engagement, social media communications, and online and cross-channel shopping; • creating and maintaining favorable brand recognition, loyalty, and a reputation for quality, including through digital brand engagement and online and social media presence; • developing and producing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors, and styles that appeal to consumers of varying age groups; • competitively pricing our products and creating an acceptable value proposition for consumers, including price increases to mitigate inflationary pressures while simultaneously balancing the risk of lower consumer demand in response to any such price increases; • providing strong and effective marketing support in several diverse demographic markets, including through digital and social media platforms in order to stay better connected to consumers; • providing attractive, reliable, secure, and user-friendly digital commerce sites; • obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at stores and shop-within-shops; • attracting consumer traffic to stores, shop-within-shops, and digital commerce sites; • sourcing sustainable raw materials at cost-effective prices; • anticipating and maintaining proper inventory levels; • ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain and distribution efficiencies with third-party manufacturers and retailers; • maintaining and growing market share; • recruiting and retaining employees to operate our retail stores, distribution centers, and various corporate functions; • protecting our intellectual property; and • ability to withstand prolonged periods of adverse economic conditions or business disruptions. Some of our competitors may be significantly larger and more diversified and may have greater financial, marketing, and distribution resources, more desirable store locations, and/or greater digital commerce presence than us, among other competitive advantages. Such competitive advantages may enable them to better withstand unfavorable economic conditions, compete more effectively on the basis of price and production, and/or more quickly respond to rapidly changing fashion trends and consumer preferences than us. In addition, technological advances and the retail industry's low barriers to entry allow for the introduction of new competitors and products at a rapid pace, which has been further compounded by the increasing shift to digital shopping channels. Any increased competition, or our failure to adequately address any of these competitive factors, could result in reduced market share or sales, which could adversely affect our business. The success of our business depends on our ability to retain the value and reputation of our brands. Our success depends on the value and reputation of our brands and our ability to consistently anticipate, identify, and respond to customers' demands, preferences, and fashion trends in the design, pricing, and production of our products, including the preference for certain products to be manufactured in the U.S., and deliver high-quality and sustainable products. Any negative publicity regarding Mr. R. Lauren, or other members of our executive and senior management team, or our Company as a whole, especially through social media which accelerates and increases the potential scope of negative publicity, could negatively impact the image of our brands with our customers and result in diminished loyalty to our brands and potentially lead to adverse consumer actions, including boycotts, even if the subject of such publicity is unverified or inaccurate and we seek to correct it. Consumer sentiment can also be influenced by our partnership with athletes and other public figures. Even if we react appropriately to negative publicity, our customers' perception of our brand image and our reputation could be negatively impacted. Any failure on our part to retain the value and reputation of brands could adversely impact our business. Our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected outside the U.S. We believe that our trademarks, intellectual property, and other proprietary rights are extremely important to our success and our competitive position. We devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and anti-counterfeiting activities worldwide. However, significant counterfeiting and imitation of our products continue to exist. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect trademarks or other proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. and, as a result, our intellectual property may be more vulnerable and difficult to protect in such countries. Over the course of our international expansion, we have experienced conflicts with various third parties that have acquired or claimed ownership rights to some of our key trademarks that include Polo and/or a representation of a polo player astride a horse, or otherwise have contested our rights to our trademarks. We have resolved certain of these conflicts through both legal action and negotiated settlements. We cannot guarantee that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent counterfeiting, lost business, or brand dilution, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business. We expect to continue to devote substantial resources to challenge brands arising from imitation of our products. Also, there can be no assurance that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction or at all. See Item 1 — "Business — Trademarks," and Item 3 — "Legal Proceedings." Our business is subject to risks associated with importing products and the ability of our manufacturers to produce our goods on time and to our specifications. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depend exclusively on independent third parties for the manufacture of our products. Our products are manufactured to our specifications through arrangements with over 300 foreign manufacturers in various countries. In Fiscal 2022, approximately 97% of our products (by dollar value) were produced outside of the U.S., primarily in Asia, Europe, and Latin America, with approximately 19% of our products sourced from China and another 19% from Vietnam. Risks inherent in importing our products include: • pandemic diseases, such as COVID-19, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials, port congestion, and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; • changes in social, political, and economic conditions, including those resulting from military conflicts, terrorist acts, or other hostilities, that could result in the disruption of trade from the countries in which our manufacturers or suppliers are located; • changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, including the imposition of any sanctions, restrictions, and other responses, such as those recently issued by the U.S. and other countries against Russia in response to its war with Ukraine; • the imposition of additional regulations, quotas, or safeguards relating to imports or exports, and costs of complying with such regulations and other laws relating to the identification and reporting of the sources of raw materials used in our products; • the imposition of additional duties, tariffs, taxes, and other charges on imports or exports; • unfavorable changes in the availability, cost, or quality of raw materials and commodities; • increases in the cost of labor, travel, and transportation; • disruptions of shipping and international trade caused by natural and man-made disasters, labor shortages (stemming from labor disputes, strikes, or otherwise), or other unforeseen events, including any resulting impact to shipping prices; • heightened terrorism-related cargo and supply chain security concerns, which could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent, or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in the delivery of cargo; • decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to lost sales, increased costs for our anti-counterfeiting measures, and damage to the reputation of our brands; and • the imposition of sanctions in the form of additional duties either by the U.S. or its trading partners to remedy perceived illegal actions by national governments. The entire apparel industry, including our Company, continues to face supply chain challenges as a result of COVID-19-related business disruptions, political instability, inflationary pressures, and other factors, including reduced freight availability, port congestion, labor shortages, and rising wages and energy costs, among other factors. The inability of a manufacturer to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our strict quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items, which could result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries, or a substantial reduction in purchase prices. We have also incurred, and expect to continue to incur, higher freight and other logistic costs as a result of certain of the beforementioned factors, as well as our increased use of air freight as we attempt to mitigate delays in inventory receipts. Prices of raw materials used to manufacture our products are also subject to significant fluctuation as a result of certain of the beforementioned factors, as well as crop yields which could be negatively impacted by severe weather conditions. We may not be able to offset such increases in raw materials, freight, or other sourcing costs through pricing actions or other means. Any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business. For a discussion of risks related to the potential imposition of additional regulations and laws, see "Risks Related to Regulatory, Legal, and Tax Matters — Our ability to conduct business globally may be affected by a variety of legal, regulatory, political, and economic risks." Our business could suffer if we need to replace manufacturers or distribution centers. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depend exclusively on independent third parties for the manufacture of our products. We compete with other companies for the production capacity of our manufacturers. Some of these competitors may place larger orders than we do, and thus may have an advantage in securing production capacity. If we experience a significant increase in demand, or if an existing manufacturer of ours must be replaced, we may have to expand our third-party manufacturing capacity. We cannot guarantee that this additional capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us. See Item 1 — "Business — Sourcing, Production and Quality." We enter into purchase order commitments each season specifying a time for delivery, method of payment, design and quality specifications, and other standard industry provisions, but do not have long-term contracts with any manufacturer. None of the manufacturers we use produce our products exclusively. In addition, we rely on a number of owned, leased, and independently-operated distribution facilities around the world to warehouse and ship products to our customers and perform other related logistic services. Our ability to meet the needs of our customers depends on the proper operation of these distribution centers. Our distributions centers generally utilize computer- controlled and automated equipment, which are subject to various risks, including software viruses, security breaches, power interruptions, or other system failures. If any of our distribution centers were to close or become inoperable or inaccessible for any reason, including pandemic diseases such as COVID-19, or if we fail to successfully consolidate existing facilities or transition to new facilities, we could experience a substantial loss of inventory, disruption of deliveries to our customers and our stores, increased costs, and longer lead times associated with the distribution of products during the period that would be required to reopen or replace the facility. Any such disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business. We also rely upon third-party transportation providers for substantially all of our product shipments, including shipments to and from our distribution centers, to our stores and shop-within-shops, and to our digital commerce and wholesale customers. Our utilization of these shipping services is subject to various risks, including, but not limited to, potential labor shortages (stemming from labor disputes, strikes, or otherwise), severe weather, and pandemic diseases, which could delay the timing of shipments, and increases in wages and fuel prices, which could result in higher transportation costs. The rapid increase of online shopping driven by changes in consumer shopping preferences has amplified certain of these risks resulting in capacity constraints. As previously noted, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, higher freight and other logistic costs as a result of certain of the beforementioned factors, as well as our increased use of air freight as we attempt to mitigate delays in inventory receipts. Any delays in the timing of our product shipments or increases in transportation costs could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business is subject to risks associated with leasing real estate and other assets under long-term, non-cancellable leases. We generally operate most of our stores and corporate facilities under long-term, non-cancellable leasing arrangements. Our retail store leases typically require us to make minimum rental payments, and often contingent rental payments based upon sales. In addition, our leases generally require us to pay our proportionate share of the cost of insurance, taxes, maintenance, and utilities. We generally cannot cancel our leases at our option. If we decide to close a store, or if we decide to downsize, consolidate, or relocate any of our corporate facilities, we may be required to record an impairment charge and/or exit costs associated with the disposal of the store or corporate facility. In addition, we may remain obligated under the applicable lease for, among other things, payment of the base rent for the remaining lease term, even after the space is exited or otherwise closed and even if such closures are beyond our control (such as the forced store closures resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic). Such costs and obligations related to the early or temporary closure of our stores or termination of our leases could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, as each of our leases naturally expires, we may be unable to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could lead to store closures resulting in lost sales. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from a limited number of large wholesale customers. Our business could be adversely affected as a result of consolidations, liquidations, restructurings, other ownership changes in the retail industry, and/or any financial instability of our large wholesale customers. Several of our department store customers, including some under common ownership, account for a significant portion of our wholesale net sales. A substantial portion of sales of our licensed products by our domestic licensing partners are also made to our largest department store customers. Sales to our three largest wholesale customers accounted for approximately 16% of total net revenues for Fiscal 2022, and these customers accounted for approximately 31% of our total gross trade accounts receivable outstanding as of April 2, 2022. Substantially all sales to our three largest wholesale customers related to our North America segment. We typically do not enter into long-term agreements with our customers. Instead, we enter into a number of purchase order commitments with our customers for each of our product lines every season. A decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores or any other significant customer, whether motivated by economic conditions, financial difficulties, competitive conditions, or otherwise, to decrease or eliminate the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing partners or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing partners or their new strategic and operational initiatives, including their continued focus on further development of their "private label" initiatives, could have a material adverse effect on our business. The department store sector has also experienced numerous consolidations, restructurings, reorganizations, and other ownership changes in recent years, which could potentially increase in frequency as a result of prolonged periods of adverse economic conditions, such as those being caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, or changes in consumer shopping preferences, such as the increasing shift away from traditional brick and mortar wholesale retailers to larger online retailers. Our wholesale customers have experienced significant business disruptions as a result of the pandemic, including declines in retail traffic, temporary store closures, and other operational restrictions. There can be no assurance that our wholesale customers have adequate financial resources and/or access to additional capital to withstand prolonged periods of such adverse economic conditions. The loss of one or more significant wholesale customers, or the loss of a large number of smaller wholesale customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, even prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, certain of our large wholesale customers, particularly those located in the U.S., have been highly promotional and have aggressively marked down their merchandise, including our products. The continuation of such promotional activity could negatively impact our brand image and/or lead to requests from those customers for increased markdown allowances at the end of the season. In response and in connection with our growth plan, we strategically reduce shipments to certain of our customers and close less productive doors when deemed appropriate. We sell our wholesale merchandise primarily to major department stores, specialty stores, and third-party digital partners across North America, Europe, Asia, and Australia, and extend credit based on an evaluation of each wholesale customer's financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. However, the financial difficulties of a wholesale customer, including those resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, could cause us to limit or eliminate our business with that customer. We may also assume more credit risk relating to that customer's receivables. Our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. See Item 1 — "Business — Wholesale Credit Control." We have a substantial amount of indebtedness which could restrict our ability to engage in additional capital-related transactions in the future. As of April 2, 2022, our consolidated indebtedness was approximately $1.636 billion, comprised of our outstanding borrowings under Senior Notes. We also maintain several credit and overdraft facilities, including our Global Credit Facility, which collectively had a remaining availability of approximately $564 million as of April 2, 2022. Accordingly, the amount of our indebtedness could further increase materially if we decide to draw upon our credit or overdraft facilities. This substantial level of indebtedness could have adverse consequences to our business, including (i) making it more difficult to satisfy our debt obligations as they become due; (ii) impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; (iii) limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business; and (iv) increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. We rely on our operating cash flows to repay our outstanding borrowings, as well as to fund any working capital needs, capital expenditures, dividend payments, share repurchases, and other general corporate purposes. Prolonged periods of adverse economic conditions or business disruptions in any of our key regions, or a combination thereof, such as those resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, could impede our ability to pay our obligations as they become due or return value to our shareholders, as well as delay previously planned expenditures related to our operations. Credit rating agencies also periodically review our capital structure and our ability to generate earnings. A prolonged period of deteriorated financial performance or our inability to comply with debt covenants (as discussed below) could make future financing more difficult to secure and/or expensive. Further, factors beyond our control, such as adverse economic conditions, could disrupt capital markets and limit the availability or willingness of financial institutions to extend capital to us in the future. Certain of our debt instruments contain a number of affirmative and negative covenants, including maintaining a leverage ratio at or below a specified level. Our failure to comply with such covenants or otherwise secure temporary waivers of non-compliance, could result in the termination of the related facilities and/or our lenders demanding any amounts outstanding to be immediately repaid, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, even if we are able to obtain waivers of non-compliance, such waivers may result in incremental fees, higher interest rates, and/or additional restrictions and covenants. We rely on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our licenses. Failure to maintain licensing partners could harm our business. The risks associated with our own products also apply to our licensed products in addition to any number of possible risks specific to a licensing partner's business, including risks associated with a particular licensing partner's ability to (i) obtain capital; (ii) execute its business plans; (iii) manage its labor relations; (iv) maintain relationships with its suppliers and customers; (v) generate sufficient cash flows to fund its operations and pay its obligations as they become due, including minimum royalties due to us; (vi) withstand prolonged periods of adverse economic conditions, such as those being caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and the Russia-Ukraine war; and (vii) manage its credit and bankruptcy risks effectively. Although a number of our license agreements prohibit our licensing partners from entering into licensing arrangements with our competitors, our licensing partners generally are not precluded from offering, under other non-competitor brands, the types of products covered by their license agreements with us. A substantial portion of sales of our products by our domestic licensing partners are also made to our largest customers. While we have significant control over our licensing partners' products and advertising, we rely on our licensing partners for, among other things, operational and financial control over their businesses. Changes in management, reduced sales of licensed products, poor execution, or financial difficulties with respect to any of our licensing partners could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. Although we believe that we could replace our existing licensing partners in most circumstances, if necessary, our inability to do so for any period of time could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced licensing revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. See Item 1 — "Business — Our Licensing Business." Our business could be adversely affected by man-made or natural disasters and other catastrophic events in the locations in which we or our customers or suppliers operate. Our operations, including retail, distribution, and warehousing operations, are susceptible to man-made or natural disasters, including pandemic diseases such as COVID-19, severe weather, geological events, and other catastrophic events, such as terrorist attacks and military conflict, any of which could disrupt our operations. In addition, the operations of our customers and suppliers could experience similar disruptions. The occurrence of natural disasters or other catastrophic events may result in sudden disruptions in the business operations of the local economies affected, as well as of the regional and global economies. The occurrence of such events could also adversely affect financial markets and the availability of capital. In addition, our business can be affected by unseasonable weather conditions, such as extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures in the winter or unseasonably cold temperatures in the summer. There is growing concern that climate change may increase both the frequency and severity of extreme weather conditions and natural disasters. Any of these events could result in decreased demand for our products and disruptions in our sales channels and manufacturing and distribution networks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Information Systems and Data Security A data security or privacy breach could damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers or employees, expose us to litigation risk, and adversely affect our business. We are dependent on information technology systems and networks, including the Internet, for a significant portion of our direct-to-consumer sales, including our digital commerce operations and retail business credit card transaction authorization and processing. We are also responsible for storing data relating to our customers and employees and rely on third parties for the operation of our digital commerce sites and for the various social media tools and websites we use as part of our marketing strategy. In our normal course of business, we often collect, transmit, and/or retain certain sensitive and confidential customer information, including credit card information. There is significant concern by consumers, employees, and lawmakers alike over the security of personal information transmitted over the Internet, consumer identity theft, and user privacy, as cyber-criminals are becoming increasingly more sophisticated in their attempts to gain unauthorized access to computer systems and confidential or sensitive data. Despite the security measures we currently have in place (including those described in Item 1 — "Business — Information Systems"), our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to targeted or random attacks that could lead to security breaches, acts of vandalism, phishing attacks, denial-of-service attacks, computer viruses, malware, ransomware, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other Internet or email events. The increased use of smartphones, tablets, and other wireless devices, as well as ongoing work-from-home arrangements for a substantial portion of our corporate employees, may also heighten these and other operational risks. The retail industry in particular continues to be the target of many cyber-attacks, which are becoming increasingly more difficult to anticipate and prevent due to their rapidly evolving nature. Furthermore, economic sanctions issued by one country against another, such as those recently issued by the U.S. and other countries against Russia in response to its war with Ukraine, could increase the risk of retaliatory state-sponsored cyber-attacks. Given the rapidly evolving nature, sophistication, and complexity of cyber-attacks, despite our reasonable efforts to mitigate and prevent such attacks, it is possible that we may not be able to anticipate, prevent, detect, or implement effective preventive measures to protect against all cyber-attack incidents. Although we have purchased network security and cyber liability insurance to provide a level of financial protection should a data breach occur, such insurance may not cover us against all claims or costs associated with such a breach, and we cannot be certain that such insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms or at all, or that our insurers will not deny coverage as to any future claim. Additionally, the technology we use to protect our systems from being breached or compromised could become outdated as a result of advances in computer capabilities or other technological developments, thereby requiring us to make further investments in capital or other resources to protect us against cyber-attacks, the cost of which could be significant. Further, measures we implement to protect our computer systems against cyber-attacks may make them harder to use or reduce the speed at which they operate, which in turn could negatively impact our customers' shopping experience resulting in reduced website traffic, diminished loyalty to our brands, and lost sales. Any perceived or actual electronic or physical security breach involving the misappropriation, loss, or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable information, including penetration of our network security, whether by us or by a third party, could disrupt our business, severely damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers, employees, or vendors, expose us to risks of litigation, significant fines and penalties, liability, and higher costs for insurance or insurance not being available to us on economically feasible terms or at all, and result in deterioration in our customers',  employees', or vendors' confidence in us, and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Since we do not control third-party service providers and cannot guarantee that no electronic or physical computer break-ins and security breaches will occur in the future, any perceived or actual unauthorized disclosure of personally identifiable information regarding our employees, customers, or website visitors could harm our reputation and credibility, result in lost sales, impair our ability to attract website visitors, and/or reduce our ability to attract and retain employees and customers. As these threats develop and grow, we may find it necessary to make significant further investments to protect data and our infrastructure, including the implementation of new computer systems or upgrades to existing systems, deployment of additional personnel and protection-related technologies, engagement of third-party consultants, and training of employees. In addition, the regulatory environment relating to information security and privacy is becoming increasingly more demanding with frequent new requirements surrounding the handling, protection, and use of personal and sensitive information. We may incur significant costs in complying with the various applicable state, federal, and foreign laws regarding protection of, and unauthorized disclosure of, personal information. Additionally, failing to comply with such laws and regulations could damage the reputation of our brands and lead to adverse consumer actions, as well as expose us to government enforcement action and/or private litigation, any of which could adversely affect our business. Our business could suffer if our computer systems and websites are disrupted or cease to operate effectively. We are dependent on our computer systems to record and process transactions and manage and operate our business, including designing, marketing, manufacturing, importing, tracking, and distributing our products, processing payments, accounting for and reporting financial results, and managing our employees and employee benefit programs. In addition, we have digital commerce and other informational websites in North America, Europe, and Asia, including Australia and New Zealand, and have plans for additional digital commerce sites in the future. Our digital commerce operations are a critical element of our long-term growth strategy and are vital to the overall success of our business. Furthermore, a substantial portion of our corporate employees continue to work remotely. Given the complexity of our business and the significant number of transactions that we engage in on a daily basis, it is imperative that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our computer hardware and software systems. Despite our preventative efforts, our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from, among other things, security breaches, computer viruses, technical malfunctions, inadequate system capacity, power outages, natural disasters, and usage errors by our employees or third-party consultants. If our information technology systems become damaged or otherwise cease to function properly, we may have to make significant investments to repair or replace them. Additionally, confidential or sensitive data related to our customers, employees, or vendors could be lost or compromised. We are continually improving and upgrading our computer systems and software, which also involves risks and uncertainties. Any disruptions, delays, or deficiencies in the design, implementation, or transition of such systems could result in increased costs, disruptions in the sourcing, sale, and shipment of our product, delays in the collection of cash from our customers, and/or adversely affect our ability to accurately report our financial results in a timely manner. Any material disruptions in our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Environmental, Social, and Governance Issues Our business could suffer if we fail to meet our global citizenship and sustainability goals or if such goals do not meet the expectations of our stakeholders There is an increased focus from consumers, employees, investors, advocacy groups, and other stakeholders concerning environmental, social, and governance ("ESG") matters, including climate change, and the related sustainability initiatives of companies. Furthermore, investors have placed increased importance on the social cost of their investments. Although we have established certain long-term initiatives and goals regarding our impact on the environment and society as a whole, including our diversity, equity, and inclusion initiatives, there can be no assurance that our various stakeholders will agree with our initiatives or if we will be successful in achieving our goals by our targeted dates or at all. Further, we could incur additional costs, face market and technological barriers, and require additional resources to monitor, report, and comply with various ESG practices. Our failure, or perceived failure, to achieve our sustainability goals could damage the reputation of our brands and lead to adverse consumer actions and/or investment decisions by investors, as well as our ability to attract and retain employees. Climate change, or our ability to adhere to any legislation and regulatory requirements related to climate change, may adversely affect our business. Our business is susceptible to risks associated with climate change, including potential disruptions to our retail stores, distribution centers, and corporate facilities. Increased frequency and/or severity of adverse weather events due to climate change could adversely impact global supply chains, including the availability and cost of raw materials (such as cotton, a key raw material used in the production of our products that is highly susceptible to severe weather conditions), the ability of our manufacturers to fulfill our orders timely and to our specifications, and shipping disruptions and/or higher freight costs. An increase in extreme weather conditions could also result in more frequent damage and/or closures of our stores and distribution centers, adversely impact retail traffic, consumer's disposable income levels or spending habits on discretionary items, or otherwise disrupt business operations in the communities in which we operate, any of which could result in lost sales or higher costs. In addition, many countries in which we and our suppliers operate have begun enacting new legislation and regulations in an attempt to mitigate the potential impacts of climate change, which could result in higher sourcing, operational, and compliance-related costs. Such proposed measures also include expanded disclosure requirements regarding greenhouse gas emissions and other climate-related information, including independent auditors providing some level of attestation to the accuracy of such disclosures. Our ability to comply with any such new laws and regulations may lead to increased costs and operational complexity. Any failure on our part to comply with such climate change-related regulations could lead to adverse consumer actions and/or investment decisions by investors, as well as expose us to government enforcement action and/or private litigation. Risks Related to Regulatory, Legal, and Tax Matters Our ability to conduct business globally may be affected by a variety of legal, regulatory, political, and economic risks. Our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain our current level of operations in our existing markets is subject to certain risks associated with operating in various locations around the globe. These include, but are not limited to: • complying with a variety of U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, trade, forced labor, product labeling, and product safety restrictions, as well as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits U.S. companies from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and similar foreign country laws, such as the U.K. Bribery Act, which prohibits U.K. and related companies from any form of bribery; • adapting to local customs and culture; • unexpected changes in laws, judicial processes, or regulatory requirements; • the imposition of additional duties, tariffs, taxes, and other charges or other barriers to trade; • changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; • civil and political instability, military conflicts, and terrorist attacks; • pandemic diseases, such as COVID-19; and • general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets. Changes in regulatory, geopolitical, social, economic, or monetary policies and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our business in the future or may require us to exit a particular market or significantly modify our current business practices. For example, in recent years both the U.S. and China have imposed new tariffs on each other related to the importation of certain product categories, including imports of apparel into the U.S. from China. As a result of actions to mitigate our exposure to the resulting tariffs, which have included diverting production to and sourcing from other countries, driving productivity within our existing supplier base, and taking pricing actions, the tariffs enacted to date have not had a material adverse impact on our business operations. However, if the U.S. decides to impose additional tariffs on apparel or other of our goods imported from China, there can be no assurance that we will be able to offset all related increased costs, which could be material to our business operations as approximately 19% of our products are sourced from China. We cannot predict if, and to what extent, there will be changes to international trade agreements or the resulting impact any such changes would have on our business operations, which could be material. For a discussion of risks associated with the importation of products, see "Risks Related to our Business and Operations — Our business is subject to risks associated with importing products and the ability of our manufacturers to produce our goods on time and to our specifications." Our business could also be impacted by changes to the tax laws and regulations in the countries where we operate. For example, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (the "OECD"), which represents a coalition of member countries, has proposed changes to numerous long-standing tax principles through its Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project, which is focused on a number of issues, including the shifting of profits among affiliated entities located in different tax jurisdictions. In response, certain member countries have, or are otherwise planning to, implement legislation to align their international tax rules with the OECD's recommendations. Additionally, the Biden Administration has proposed to increase the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 21% up to as much as 28%, as well as increase U.S. taxation on foreign earnings. Other taxing authorities of certain state, local, and other foreign jurisdictions may also decide to modify existing tax laws. We cannot predict which, if any, of these items or others will be enacted into law or the resulting impact any such enactment will have on our business operations, which could be material. Fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may result in volatility of our operating results. We are subject to income and non-income taxes in many U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions, with the applicable tax rates varying by jurisdiction. We record tax expense based on our estimates of future payments, which include reserves for uncertain tax positions in multiple tax jurisdictions. At any given time, multiple tax years are subject to audit by various taxing authorities. The results of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may affect the ultimate settlement of these issues. As a result, we expect that throughout the year there could be ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as events occur and exposures are evaluated. Our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may also be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of earnings by jurisdiction or by changes to existing accounting rules. Additionally, our products are subject to import and excise duties, and/or sales, consumption, value-added taxes ("VAT"), and other non-income taxes in certain international jurisdictions. Failure to correctly calculate or submit the appropriate amount of income or non-income taxes could subject us to substantial fines and penalties and adversely affect our business. In addition, the tax laws and regulations in the countries where we operate may change, or there may be changes in interpretation and enforcement of existing tax laws, which could materially affect our income tax expense in our consolidated financial statements. For a discussion of risks related to the potential imposition of additional regulations and laws, see "Risks Related to Regulatory, Legal, and Tax Matters — Our ability to conduct business globally may be affected by a variety of legal, regulatory, political, and economic risks." Our business could suffer if we fail to comply with labor laws or if one of our manufacturers fails to use acceptable labor or environmental practices. We are subject to labor laws governing relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions, and citizenship requirements. Compliance with these laws may lead to increased costs and operational complexity and may increase our exposure to governmental investigations or litigation. In addition, we require our licensing partners and independent manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. While our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices and our employees periodically visit and monitor the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. The violation of any ethical, social, product safety, labor, health, environmental, privacy, or other standards and regulations by an independent manufacturer used by us or one of our licensing partners, could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. Any of these events, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Certain legal proceedings, regulatory matters, and accounting changes could adversely affect our business. We are involved in certain legal proceedings and regulatory matters and are subject from time to time to various claims involving alleged breach of contract claims, intellectual property and other related claims, escheatment and unclaimed property, credit card fraud, security breaches in certain of our retail store information systems, employment issues, consumer matters, and other litigation. Certain of these lawsuits and claims, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, could result in material liability to our Company or have a negative impact on our reputation or relations with our employees, customers, licensing partners, or other third parties. Other potential claimants may also be encouraged to bring suits against us based on a settlement from us or adverse court decision against us for similar claims or allegations as their own. In addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, such proceedings could result in substantial costs and may require our Company to devote substantial time and resources to defend itself. Further, changes in governmental regulations both in the U.S. and in other countries where we conduct business operations could have an adverse impact on our business. See Item 3 — "Legal Proceedings" for further discussion of our Company's legal matters. In addition, we are subject to changes in accounting rules and interpretations issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and other regulatory agencies. If and when effective, such changes to accounting standards could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. See Note 4 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a discussion of certain recently issued accounting standards. Risks Related to our Common Stock The trading prices of our securities periodically may rise or fall based on the accuracy of predictions of our earnings or other financial performance, including our ability to return value to shareholders. Our business planning process is designed to maximize our long-term strength, growth, and profitability, and not to achieve an earnings target in any particular fiscal quarter. We believe that this longer-term focus is in the best interests of our Company and our stockholders. However, we also recognize that, from time to time, it may be helpful to provide investors with guidance as to our quarterly and annual forecast of net sales and earnings. While we generally expect to provide updates to our guidance when we report our results each fiscal quarter, we do not have any responsibility to update any of our guidance or other forward-looking statements at such times or otherwise. In addition, any longer-term guidance that we provide is based on goals that we believe, at the time guidance is given, are reasonably attainable. However, such long-range targets are more difficult to predict than our current quarter and full fiscal year expectations. Additionally, external analysts and investors may publish their own independent predictions of our future performance. We do not endorse such predictions or assume any responsibility to correct such predictions when they differ from our own expectations. If, or when, we announce actual results that differ from those that have been predicted by us, outside analysts, or others, the market price of our securities could be adversely affected. Investors who rely on these predictions when making investment decisions with respect to our securities do so at their own risk. We take no responsibility for any losses suffered as a result of such changes in the prices of our securities. The stock market in general has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of listed companies. Accordingly, public perception and other factors outside of our control may impact our stock price, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, we have historically returned value to shareholders through our payment of quarterly cash dividends and common stock share repurchases. Investors may have an expectation that we will continue to pay quarterly cash dividends, further increase our cash dividend rate, and/or repurchase shares available under our Class A common stock repurchase program. Our ability to pay quarterly cash dividends and repurchase our Class A common stock will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations in the future. This ability may be subject to certain economic, financial, competitive, and other factors that are beyond our control, such as impacts related to the COVID-19 pandemic, which has resulted in us temporarily suspending our quarterly cash dividend and share repurchases, effective beginning in the first quarter of Fiscal 2021. Although we have since resumed activity under both of these programs during Fiscal 2022, our Board of Directors may, at its discretion, elect to suspend or otherwise alter these programs at any time. The market price of our securities could be adversely affected if our cash dividend payments and/or Class A common stock share repurchase activity differ from investors' expectations. The voting shares of our Company's stock are concentrated in one majority stockholder. As of April 2, 2022, Mr. Ralph Lauren, or entities controlled by the Lauren family, held approximately 85% of the voting power of the outstanding common stock of our Company. In addition, Mr. R. Lauren serves as our Executive Chairman and Chief Creative Officer, Mr. R. Lauren's son, Mr. David Lauren, serves as our Chief Innovation Officer, Strategic Advisor to the CEO, and Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, and we employ other members of the Lauren family. From time to time, we may have other business dealings with Mr. R. Lauren, members of the Lauren family, or entities affiliated with Mr. R. Lauren or the Lauren family. As a result of his stock ownership and position in our Company, Mr. R. Lauren has the ability to exercise significant control over our business, including, without limitation, (i) the election of our Class B common stock directors, voting separately as a class and (ii) any action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation and the approval of mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations ("MD&A") should be read together with our audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto, which are included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We utilize a 52-53 week fiscal year ending on the Saturday immediately before or after March 31. As such, Fiscal 2022 ended on April 2, 2022 and was a 53-week period; Fiscal 2021 ended on March 27, 2021 and was a 52-week period; Fiscal 2020 ended on March 28, 2020 and was a 52-week period; and Fiscal 2023 will end on April 1, 2023 and will be a 52-week period. INTRODUCTION MD&A is provided as a supplement to the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto to help provide an understanding of our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. MD&A is organized as follows: • Overview. This section provides a general description of our business, global economic conditions and industry trends, and a summary of our financial performance for Fiscal 2022. In addition, this section includes a discussion of recent developments and transactions affecting comparability that we believe are important in understanding our results of operations and financial condition, and in anticipating future trends. • Results of operations. This section provides an analysis of our results of operations for Fiscal 2022 and Fiscal 2021 as compared to the respective prior fiscal year. • Financial condition and liquidity. This section provides a discussion of our financial condition and liquidity as of April 2, 2022, which includes (i) an analysis of our financial condition as compared to the prior fiscal year-end; (ii) an analysis of changes in our cash flows for Fiscal 2022 and Fiscal 2021 as compared to the respective prior fiscal year; (iii) an analysis of our liquidity, including the availability under our commercial paper borrowing program and credit facilities, our outstanding debt and covenant compliance, common stock repurchases, and payments of dividends; and (iv) a summary of our material cash requirements as of April 2, 2022. • Market risk management. This section discusses how we manage our risk exposures related to foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and our investments as of April 2, 2022. • Critical accounting policies. This section discusses our critical accounting policies considered to be important to our results of operations and financial condition, which typically require significant judgment and estimation on the part of management in their application. In addition, all of our significant accounting policies, including our critical accounting policies, are summarized in Note 3 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. • Recently issued accounting standards. This section discusses the potential impact on our reported results of operations and financial condition of certain accounting standards that have been recently issued. OVERVIEW Our Business Our Company is a global leader in the design, marketing, and distribution of premium lifestyle products, including apparel, footwear, accessories, home furnishings, fragrances, and hospitality. Our long-standing reputation and distinctive image have been developed across a wide range of products, brands, distribution channels, and international markets. Our brand names include Ralph Lauren, Ralph Lauren Collection, Ralph Lauren Purple Label, Polo Ralph Lauren, Double RL, Lauren Ralph Lauren, Polo Ralph Lauren Children, and Chaps, among others. We diversify our business by geography (North America, Europe, and Asia, among other regions) and channel of distribution (retail, wholesale, and licensing). This allows us to maintain a dynamic balance as our operating results do not depend solely on the performance of any single geographic area or channel of distribution. We sell directly to consumers through our integrated retail channel, which includes our retail stores, concession-based shop-within-shops, and digital commerce operations around the world. Our wholesale sales are made principally to major department stores, specialty stores, and third-party digital partners around the world, as well as to certain third-party-owned stores to which we have licensed the right to operate in defined geographic territories using our trademarks. In addition, we license to third parties for specified periods the right to access our various trademarks in connection with the licensees' manufacture and sale of designated products, such as certain apparel, eyewear, fragrances, and home furnishings. We organize our business into the following three reportable segments: • North America — Our North America segment, representing approximately 48% of our Fiscal 2022 net revenues, primarily consists of sales of our Ralph Lauren branded products made through our retail and wholesale businesses in the U.S. and Canada. In North America, our retail business is primarily comprised of our Ralph Lauren stores, our factory stores, and our digital commerce site, www.RalphLauren.com. Our wholesale business in North America is comprised primarily of sales to department stores and, to a lesser extent, specialty stores. • Europe — Our Europe segment, representing approximately 28% of our Fiscal 2022 net revenues, primarily consists of sales of our Ralph Lauren branded products made through our retail and wholesale businesses in Europe and emerging markets. In Europe, our retail business is primarily comprised of our Ralph Lauren stores, our factory stores, our concession-based shop-within-shops, and our various digital commerce sites. Our wholesale business in Europe is comprised primarily of a varying mix of sales to both department stores and specialty stores, depending on the country, as well as to various third-party digital partners. • Asia — Our Asia segment, representing approximately 21% of our Fiscal 2022 net revenues, primarily consists of sales of our Ralph Lauren branded products made through our retail and wholesale businesses in Asia, Australia, and New Zealand. Our retail business in Asia is primarily comprised of our Ralph Lauren stores, our factory stores, our concession-based shop-within-shops, and our various digital commerce sites. In addition, we sell our products online through various third-party digital partner commerce sites. Our wholesale business in Asia is comprised primarily of sales to department stores, with related products distributed through shop-within-shops. No operating segments were aggregated to form our reportable segments. In addition to these reportable segments, we also have other non-reportable segments, representing approximately 3% of our Fiscal 2022 net revenues, which primarily consist of Ralph Lauren and Chaps branded royalty revenues earned through our global licensing alliances. In addition, prior to its disposition at the end of our first quarter of Fiscal 2022, our other non-reportable segments also included sales of Club Monaco branded products made through our retail and wholesale businesses in the U.S., Canada, and Europe, and our licensing alliances in Asia. Refer to "Recent Developments" for additional discussion regarding the disposition of our former Club Monaco business, as well as the recent transition of our Chaps business to a fully licensed business model. Approximately 51% of our Fiscal 2022 net revenues were earned outside of the U.S. See Note 20 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our segment reporting structure. Our business is typically affected by seasonal trends, with higher levels of retail sales in our second and third fiscal quarters and higher wholesale sales in our second and fourth fiscal quarters. These trends result primarily from the timing of key vacation travel, back-to-school, and holiday shopping periods impacting our retail business and timing of seasonal wholesale shipments. As a result of changes in our business, consumer spending patterns, and the macroeconomic environment, including those resulting from pandemic diseases and other catastrophic events, historical quarterly operating trends and working capital requirements may not be indicative of our future performance. In addition, fluctuations in sales, operating income (loss), and cash flows in any fiscal quarter may be affected by other events affecting retail sales, such as changes in weather patterns. Recent Developments COVID-19 Pandemic Beginning in the fourth quarter of our Fiscal 2020, a novel strain of coronavirus commonly referred to as COVID-19 emerged and spread rapidly across the globe, including throughout all major geographies in which we operate, resulting in adverse economic conditions and business disruptions, as well as significant volatility in global financial markets. Since then, governments worldwide have periodically imposed varying degrees of preventative and protective actions, such as temporary travel bans, forced business closures, and stay-at-home orders, all in an effort to reduce the spread of the virus. Such factors, among others, have resulted in a significant decline in retail traffic, tourism, and consumer spending on discretionary items. Additionally, companies across a wide array of industries have implemented various initiatives to reduce operating expenses and preserve cash balances during the pandemic, including work furloughs, reduced pay, and severance actions, which could lower consumers' disposable income levels or willingness to purchase discretionary items. Such government restrictions, company initiatives, and other macroeconomic impacts resulting from the pandemic could continue to adversely affect consumer behavior, spending levels, and/or shopping preferences, such as willingness to congregate in indoor shopping centers or other populated locations. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have experienced varying degrees of business disruptions and periods of closure of our stores, distribution centers, and corporate facilities, as have our wholesale customers, licensing partners, suppliers, and vendors. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2021 at the peak of the pandemic, the majority of our stores in key markets were closed for an average of 8 to 10 weeks due to government-mandated lockdowns and other restrictions, resulting in significant adverse impacts to our operating results. Resurgences and outbreaks in certain parts of the world resulted in further business disruptions periodically throughout Fiscal 2021, most notably in Europe where a significant number of our stores were closed for approximately two to three months during the second half of Fiscal 2021, including during the holiday period, due to government-mandated lockdowns and other restrictions. Such disruptions continued throughout Fiscal 2022 in certain regions, although to a lesser extent than the comparable prior year fiscal period. Further, throughout the course of the pandemic, the majority of our stores that were able to remain open have periodically been subject to limited operating hours and/or customer capacity levels in accordance with local health guidelines, with traffic remaining challenged. However, our digital commerce operations have grown significantly from pre-pandemic levels, due in part to our investments and enhanced capabilities, as well as changes in consumer shopping preferences. Our wholesale and licensing businesses have experienced similar impacts, particularly in North America and Europe. The COVID-19 pandemic also continues to adversely impact our distribution, logistic, and sourcing partners, including temporary factory closures, labor shortages, vessel, container and other transportation shortages, and port congestion. Such disruptions have reduced the availability of inventory, delayed timing of inventory receipts, and resulted in increased costs for the both the purchase and transportation of such inventory. Throughout the course of the pandemic, our priority has been to ensure the safety and well-being of our employees, customers, and the communities in which we operate around the world. We continue to consider the guidance of local governments and global health organizations and have implemented new health and safety protocols in our stores, distribution centers, and corporate facilities. We also took various preemptive actions in the prior fiscal year to preserve cash and strengthen our liquidity position, as described in the Fiscal 2021 10-K. Such actions included, but were not limited to, issuing $1.250 billion of unsecured senior notes, temporarily suspending our quarterly cash dividend and common stock repurchase programs, temporarily reducing the base compensation of our executives and senior management team, and temporarily furloughing or reducing work hours for a significant portion of our employees. Despite the introduction of COVID-19 vaccines and improvements in the global economy as a whole during Fiscal 2022, the pandemic remains volatile and continues to evolve, including the emergence of variants of the virus, such as the Delta and Omicron variants, which has and could continue to adversely affect consumer sentiment and confidence. Accordingly, we cannot predict for how long and to what extent the pandemic will continue to impact our business operations or the overall global economy. We will continue to assess our operations location-by-location, considering the guidance of local governments and global health organizations. See Item 1A — " Risk Factors — Risks Related to Macroeconomic Conditions — Infectious disease outbreaks, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, could have a material adverse effect on our business " for additional discussion regarding risks to our business associated with the COVID-19 pandemic. Fiscal 2021 Strategic Realignment Plan We have undertaken efforts to realign our resources to support future growth and profitability, and to create a sustainable, enhanced cost structure. The key initiatives underlying these efforts involve evaluation of our: (i) team organizational structures and ways of working; (ii) real estate footprint and related costs across our corporate offices, distribution centers, and direct-to-consumer retail and wholesale doors; and (iii) brand portfolio. In connection with the first initiative, on September 17, 2020, our Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan (the "Fiscal 2021 Strategic Realignment Plan") to reduce our global workforce. Additionally, during a preliminary review of our store portfolio during the second quarter of Fiscal 2021, we made the decision to close our Polo store on Regent Street in London. Shortly thereafter, on October 29, 2020, we announced the planned transition of our Chaps brand to a fully licensed business model, consistent with our long-term brand elevation strategy and in connection with our third initiative. Specifically, we have entered into a multi-year licensing partnership, which took effect on August 1, 2021 following a transition period, with an affiliate of 5 Star Apparel LLC, a division of the OVED Group, to manufacture, market, and distribute Chaps menswear and womenswear. The products are being sold at existing channels of distribution with opportunities for expansion into additional channels and markets globally. This agreement created incremental value for the Company by enabling an even greater focus on elevating our core brands in the marketplace, reducing our direct exposure to the North America department store channel, and setting up Chaps to deliver on its potential with an experienced partner that is focused on nurturing the brand. Later, on February 3, 2021, our Board of Directors approved additional actions related to our real estate initiative. Specifically, we are in the process of further rightsizing and consolidating our global corporate offices to better align with our organizational profile and new ways of working. We also have closed, and may continue to close, certain of our stores to improve overall profitability. Additionally, we further consolidated our North America distribution centers in order to drive greater efficiencies, improve sustainability, and deliver a better consumer experience. Finally, on June 26, 2021, in connection with our brand portfolio initiative, we sold our former Club Monaco business to Regent, L.P. ("Regent"), a global private equity firm, with no resulting gain or loss on sale realized during the first quarter of Fiscal 2022. Regent acquired Club Monaco's assets and liabilities in exchange for potential future cash consideration payable to us, including earn-out payments based on Club Monaco meeting certain defined revenue thresholds over a five-year period. Accordingly, we may realize amounts in the future related to the receipt of such contingent consideration. Additionally, in connection with this divestiture, we are providing Regent with certain operational support for a transitional period of approximately 1 year, varying by functional area. In connection with the Fiscal 2021 Strategic Realignment Plan, we have recorded cumulative pre-tax charges of $262.1 million, of which $25.3 million and $236.8 million were recorded during Fiscal 2022 and Fiscal 2021, respectively. Actions associated with the Fiscal 2021 Strategic Realignment Plan were substantially completed by the end of Fiscal 2022, with certain remaining actions expected to be completed during Fiscal 2023. We now expect total charges of up to $300 million to be incurred in connection with this plan, consisting of cash-related charges of approximately $180 million and non-cash charges of approximately $120 million. Actions associated with this plan are expected to result in gross annualized pre-tax expense savings of approximately $200 million, a portion of which is being reinvested back into the business. See Note 9 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional discussion regarding charges recorded in connection with the Fiscal 2021 Strategic Restructuring Plan. Swiss Tax Reform In May 2019, a public referendum was held in Switzerland that approved the Federal Act on Tax Reform and AHV Financing (the "Swiss Tax Act"), which became effective January 1, 2020. The Swiss Tax Act eliminates certain preferential tax items at both the federal and cantonal levels for multinational companies and provides the cantons with parameters for establishing local tax rates and regulations. The Swiss Tax Act also provides transitional provisions, one of which allows eligible companies to increase the tax basis of certain assets based on the value generated by their business in previous years, and to amortize such adjustment as a tax deduction over a transitional period. In connection with this transitional provision, we recorded a one-time income tax benefit and corresponding deferred tax asset of $122.9 million during Fiscal 2020, which reduced our effective tax rate by 3,760 basis points. Subsequently, during Fiscal 2021, we reduced this one-time tax benefit by $13.8 million due to new legislation enacted in connection with the European Union's anti-tax avoidance directive, which increased our effective rate by 1,840 basis points. Additionally, during Fiscal 2022, we recorded a charge of $6.4 million within restructuring and other charges, net in the consolidated statements of operations in connection with non-income-related capital taxes resulting from Swiss tax reform. See Note 10 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional discussion regarding the Swiss Tax Act. Fiscal 2019 Restructuring Plan On June 4, 2018, our Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan associated with our strategic objective of operating with discipline to drive sustainable growth (the "Fiscal 2019 Restructuring Plan"). The Fiscal 2019 Restructuring Plan included the following activities: (i) rightsizing and consolidation of our global distribution network and corporate offices; (ii) targeted severance-related actions; and (iii) closure of certain of our stores and shop-within-shops. Actions associated with the Fiscal 2019 Restructuring Plan resulted in gross annualized expense savings of approximately $80 million. In connection with the Fiscal 2019 Restructuring Plan, we have recorded cumulative charges of $145.8 million since its inception, of which $48.5 million was recorded during Fiscal 2020. Actions associated with the Fiscal 2019 Restructuring Plan are complete and no additional charges are expected to be incurred in connection with this plan. See Note 9 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional discussion regarding charges recorded in connection with the Fiscal 2019 Restructuring Plan. Global Economic Conditions and Industry Trends The global economy and retail industry are impacted by many different factors. The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in heightened uncertainty surrounding the future state of the global economy, as well as significant volatility in global financial markets. As discussed in " Recent Developments," governments worldwide have periodically imposed varying degrees of preventative and protective actions throughout the course of the pandemic, such as temporary travel bans, forced business closures, and stay-at-home orders, all in an effort to reduce the spread of the virus. Such actions, together with changes in consumers' willingness to congregate in populated areas and lower levels of disposal income due to higher unemployment rates, have resulted in significant business disruptions across a wide array of industries and an overall decline of the global economy since the outbreak of the pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has also significantly disrupted distribution, logistic, and supply chain operations globally, including temporary factory closures, labor shortages, vessel, container and other transportation shortages, and port congestion. Such disruptions have reduced the availability of inventory, delayed timing of inventory receipts, and resulted in increased costs for the both the purchase and transportation of such inventory. Despite the introduction of COVID-19 vaccines and improvements in the global economy as a whole during Fiscal 2022, resurgences and outbreaks continue to occur in certain geographic locations, including those resulting from variants of the virus, such as the Delta and Omicron variants. Accordingly, it is not clear at this time how much longer and to what extent the pandemic will last. The global economy has also been negatively impacted by the war between Russia and Ukraine. Several countries, including the U.S., have imposed significant economic sanctions against Russia, including export controls and other trade restrictions with Russian entities. Various companies have also voluntarily elected to suspend operations in Russia in protest of the conflict. The Russia-Ukraine war has adversely impacted consumer sentiment and confidence, particularly in Eastern Europe. It is not clear at this time how long the conflict will endure, or if it will escalate further with additional countries declaring war against each other, which could further compound the adverse impact to the global economy. Certain other worldwide events and factors, such as international trade relations, new legislation and regulations, taxation or monetary policy changes, political and civil unrest, and inflationary pressures, including increases in the cost of raw materials, transportation, wages, healthcare and other benefit-related costs, among other factors, also increase volatility in the global economy. The retail landscape in which we operate has been significantly disrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic, including periods of temporary closures of stores and distribution centers and declines in retail traffic, tourism, and consumer spending on discretionary items. The retail industry, particularly in the U.S., has also experienced numerous bankruptcies, restructurings, and ownership changes in recent years. Despite improvements in the global economy during Fiscal 2022, supply chain-related risks continue to exist as manufacturers and transportation providers alike are finding it difficult to meet increased consumer demand. The continuation of these industry trends could have a material adverse effect on our business or operating results. We have implemented various strategies globally to help address many of these current challenges and continue to build a foundation for long-term profitable growth centered around strengthening our consumer-facing areas of product, stores, and marketing across channels and driving a more efficient operating model. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, during the prior fiscal year we took preemptive actions to preserve cash and strengthen our liquidity position, which better enabled us to continue to execute upon our long-term growth strategy despite unfavorable economic conditions. Investing in our digital ecosystem remains a primary focus and is a key component of our integrated global omni-channel strategy and driving consumer engagement, particularly in light of the current COVID-19 pandemic, which has and could continue to reshape consumer shopping preferences. We continue to scale and expand our Connected Retail capabilities to enhance the consumer experience, which now include virtual selling appointments, Buy Online-Pick Up in Store, and mobile checkout and contactless payments, among other capabilities. In addition, we recently launched our first-ever, full-catalog Ralph Lauren mobile shopping app. We also continue to drive consumer engagement and global brand awareness through our sports sponsorships, which include the Wimbledon, U.S. Open, and Australian Open tennis tournaments, Team U.S.A in the Olympic and Paralympic Games, and various golf organizations and tournament events, including the Professional Golfers' Association ("PGA") of America, the PGA Championship, the U.S. Golf Association, and the U.S. Ryder Cup Team, as well as through our special product releases and limited collections. Additionally, we have accelerated our marketing investments, with a focus on supporting new customer acquisition, digitally-amplified brand campaigns, and resumption of in-store programs as markets continue to reopen worldwide. We also continue to take deliberate actions to ensure promotional consistency across channels and to enhance the overall brand and shopping experience, including better aligning shipments and inventory levels with underlying demand. We also remain committed to optimizing our wholesale distribution channel and enhancing our department store consumer experience. In connection with our long-term brand elevation strategy, we completed the sale of our former Club Monaco business at the end of the first quarter of Fiscal 2022 and successfully transitioned our Chaps business to a fully licensed business model during the second quarter of Fiscal 2022 as planned, thereby enabling our teams to focus our resources on our core brands. We will continue to monitor these conditions and trends and will evaluate and adjust our operating strategies and foreign currency and cost management opportunities to help mitigate the related impacts on our results of operations, while remaining focused on the long-term growth of our business and protecting and elevating the value of our brand. For a detailed discussion of significant risk factors that have the potential to cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations, see Part I, Item 1A — " Risk Factors " included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Summary of Financial Performance Operating Results In Fiscal 2022, we reported net revenues of $6.219 billion, net income of $600.1 million, and net income per diluted share of $8.07, as compared to net revenues of $4.401 billion, a net loss of $121.1 million, and net loss per diluted share of $1.65 in Fiscal 2021. The comparability of our operating results has been affected by adverse impacts related to COVID-19 business disruptions and net restructuring-related charges, impairment of assets, and certain other benefits (charges), including one-time tax events, as well as the impacts of the disposition of our former Club Monaco business at the end of the first quarter of Fiscal 2022, the transition of our Chaps business to a fully licensed business model during the second quarter of Fiscal 2022, and the 53rd week in Fiscal 2022, as discussed further below. Our operating performance for Fiscal 2022 reflected revenue increases of 41.3% on a reported basis and 41.9% on a constant currency basis, as defined within " Transactions and Trends Affecting Comparability of Results of Operations and Financial Condition " below. The increase in net revenues reflected growth across all regions largely driven by a reduction in store closures and other COVID-19-related disruptions experienced during the current fiscal year as compared to the prior fiscal year, coupled with continued growth in our digital commerce operations and overall stronger consumer demand, as well as the benefit of the incremental 53rd week. This growth was partially offset by the disposition of our former Club Monaco business at the end of the first quarter of Fiscal 2022 and the transition of our Chaps business to a fully licensed business model during the second quarter of Fiscal 2022. Our gross profit as a percentage of net revenues increased by 170 basis points to 66.7% during Fiscal 2022, primarily driven by lower non-routine inventory charges recorded during Fiscal 2022 as compared to the prior fiscal year, as well as improved pricing, lower levels of promotional activity, and product mix, partially offset by higher product and freight costs and the absence of unusual geographic and channel mix benefits experienced during the prior fiscal year in connection with COVID-19-related business disruptions in North America and Europe. Selling, general, and administrative ("SG&A") expenses as a percentage of net revenues during Fiscal 2022 decreased by 680 basis points to 53.2%, primarily driven by operating leverage on higher net revenues, partially offset by higher expenses  across various categories to drive strategic growth, coupled with the return to more normalized operations in comparison to the prior fiscal year. Net income increased by $721.2 million to $600.1 million in Fiscal 2022 as compared to Fiscal 2021, primarily due to an $842.0 million increase in our operating income, partially offset by a $108.2 million increase in our income tax provision. Net income per diluted share increased by $9.72 to $8.07 per share during Fiscal 2022 driven by the higher level of net income. During Fiscal 2022 and Fiscal 2021, our operating results were negatively impacted by net restructuring-related charges, impairment of assets, and certain other charges (benefits) totaling $32.6 million and $254.4 million, respectively, which had an after-tax effect of reducing net income by $23.2 million, or $0.31 per diluted share, and $201.5 million, or $2.71 per diluted share, respectively. Partially offsetting these charges was the favorable impact of the 53rd week in Fiscal 2022, which increased net income by $16.5 million, or approximately $0.22 per diluted share. Our net loss during Fiscal 2021 also reflected $46.6 million of incremental net tax expense recorded in connection with one-time income tax events. Financial Condition and Liquidity We ended Fiscal 2022 in a net cash and short-term investments position (cash and cash equivalents plus short-term investments, less total debt) of $962.1 million, as compared to $1.144 billion as of the end of Fiscal 2021. The decrease in our net cash and short-term investments position during Fiscal 2022 as compared to Fiscal 2021 was primarily due to our use of cash to support Class A common stock repurchases of $492.6 million, including withholdings in satisfaction of tax obligations for stock-based compensation awards, to invest in our business through $166.9 million in capital expenditures, and to make dividend payments of $150.0 million, partially offset by operating cash flows of $715.9 million. Net cash provided by operating activities was $715.9 million during Fiscal 2022, as compared to $380.9 million during Fiscal 2021. The net increase in cash provided by operating activities was due to an increase in net income before non-cash charges, partially offset by a net unfavorable change related to our operating assets and liabilities, including our working capital, as compared to the prior fiscal year period. Our equity decreased to $2.536 billion as of April 2, 2022, compared to $2.604 billion as of March 27, 2021, due to our share repurchase activity and dividends declared during Fiscal 2022, partially offset by our comprehensive income and the net impact of stock-based compensation arrangements. Transactions and Trends Affecting Comparability of Results of Operations and Financial Condition The comparability of our operating results for the three fiscal years presented herein has been affected by certain events, including: • pretax charges incurred in connection with our restructuring activities, as well as certain other asset impairments and other benefits (charges), including those related to COVID-19 business disruptions, as summarized below (references to "Notes" are to the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements): (a) Fiscal 2020 includes a $7.1 million impairment of an equity method investment recorded within other income (expense), net in the consolidated statements of operations. All other impairment charges were recorded within impairment of assets in the consolidated statements of operations. (b) Non-routine bad debt reversals (expense), net are recorded within SG&A expenses in the consolidated statements of operations. Fiscal 2022 includes non-routine bad debt expense of $3.6 million recorded in connection with Russia-related accounts receivables, partially offset by COVID-19-related bad debt expense reversals of $1.2 million. Non-routine bad debt reversals (expense) recorded during Fiscal 2021 and Fiscal 2020 related to COVID-19 business disruptions. (c) Non-routine inventory benefits (charges) are recorded within cost of goods sold in the consolidated statements of operations. Fiscal 2021 and Fiscal 2020 includes non-routine inventory charges of $8.3 million and $2.2 million, respectively, related to our restructuring plans (see Note 9). All other non-routine inventory benefits (charges) related to COVID-19 business disruptions. • the inclusion of the 53rd week in Fiscal 2022, which resulted in incremental net revenues of $62.7 million and net income of $16.5 million, or approximately $0.22 per diluted share; • the disposition of our former Club Monaco business at the end of the first quarter of Fiscal 2022, which resulted in a decline in net revenues of approximately $66 million during Fiscal 2022 as compared to the prior fiscal year; • the transition of our Chaps business to a fully licensed business model during the second quarter of Fiscal 2022, which resulted in a decline in net revenues of approximately $69 million during Fiscal 2022 as compared to the prior fiscal year; • other adverse impacts related to COVID-19 business disruptions during Fiscal 2022, Fiscal 2021, and Fiscal 2020; • adverse impacts related to Hong Kong protest business disruptions during Fiscal 2020; • incremental net tax expense of $46.6 million recorded within our income tax provision during Fiscal 2021 related to a valuation allowance provided against domestic losses attributable to COVID-19 business disruptions, international tax legislation enacted in connection with the European Union's anti-tax avoidance directive, and a net operating loss carryback under the CARES Act, which collectively negatively impacted our effective tax rate by 6,230 basis points; and • a one-time benefit of $122.9 million recorded within our income tax provision during Fiscal 2020 in connection with the Swiss Tax Act, which reduced our effective tax rate by 3,760 basis points. During Fiscal 2021, we reduced this one-time tax benefit by $13.8 million due to new legislation enacted, which increased our effective tax rate by 1,840 basis points. See Note 10 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion. Because we are a global company, the comparability of our operating results reported in U.S. Dollars is also affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations because the underlying currencies in which we transact change in value over time compared to the U.S. Dollar. Such fluctuations can have a significant effect on our reported results. As such, in addition to financial measures prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. ("U.S. GAAP"), our discussions often contain references to constant currency measures, which are calculated by translating current-year and prior-year reported amounts into comparable amounts using a single foreign exchange rate for each currency. We present constant currency financial information, which is a non-U.S. GAAP financial measure, as a supplement to our reported operating results. We use constant currency information to provide a framework for assessing how our businesses performed excluding the effects of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We believe this information is useful to investors for facilitating comparisons of operating results and better identifying trends in our businesses. The constant currency performance measures should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of or superior to, our operating performance measures calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Reconciliations between this non-U.S. GAAP financial measure and the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure are included in the "Results of Operations" section where applicable. Our discussion also includes reference to comparable store sales. Comparable store sales refer to the change in sales of our stores that have been open for at least 13 full fiscal months. Sales from our digital commerce sites are also included within comparable sales for those geographies that have been serviced by the related site for at least 13 full fiscal months. Sales for stores or digital commerce sites that are closed or shut down during the year are excluded from the calculation of comparable store sales. Sales for stores that are either relocated, enlarged (as defined by gross square footage expansion of 25% or greater), or generally closed for 30 or more consecutive days for renovation are also excluded from the calculation of comparable store sales until such stores have been operating in their new location or in their newly renovated state for at least 13 full fiscal months. All comparable store sales metrics are calculated on a 52-week and constant currency basis. Our "Results of Operations" discussion that follows includes the significant changes in operating results arising from these items affecting comparability. However, unusual items or transactions may occur in any period. Accordingly, investors and other financial statement users should consider the types of events and transactions that have affected operating trends. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Fiscal 2022 Compared to Fiscal 2021 The following table summarizes our results of operations and expresses the percentage relationship to net revenues of certain financial statement captions. All percentages shown in the below table and the discussion that follows have been calculated using unrounded numbers. (a) Effective tax rate is calculated by dividing the income tax provision by income (loss) before income taxes. NM    Not meaningful. Net Revenues. Net revenues increased by $1.818 billion, or 41.3%, to $6.219 billion in Fiscal 2022 as compared to Fiscal 2021, including net unfavorable foreign currency effects of $24.5 million. This increase also reflected the favorable impact of the 53rd week in Fiscal 2022, which resulted in incremental net revenues of $62.7 million. On a constant currency basis, net revenues increased by $1.842 billion, or 41.9%. The increase in net revenues reflected growth across all regions largely driven by a reduction in store closures and other COVID-19-related disruptions experienced during the current fiscal year as compared to the prior fiscal year, coupled with continued growth in our digital commerce operations and overall stronger consumer demand, as well as the benefit of the incremental 53rd week as previously discussed. This growth was partially offset by the disposition of our former Club Monaco business at the end of the first quarter of Fiscal 2022 and the transition of our Chaps business to a fully licensed business model during the second quarter of Fiscal 2022. The following table summarizes the percentage change in our Fiscal 2022 consolidated comparable store sales as compared to the prior fiscal year: Our global average store count decreased by 25 stores and concession shops during Fiscal 2022 compared with the prior fiscal year, largely driven by the sale of our former Club Monaco business on June 26, 2021, partially offset by new openings primarily in Asia. The following table details our retail store presence by segment as of the periods presented: In addition to our stores, we sell products online in North America, Europe, and Asia through our various digital commerce sites, as well as through our mobile apps in North America and the United Kingdom. We also sell products online through various third-party digital partner commerce sites, primarily in Asia. Net revenues for our segments, as well as a discussion of the changes in each reportable segment's net revenues from the prior fiscal year, are provided below: (a) Reflects the disposition of our former Club Monaco business at the end of the first quarter of Fiscal 2022. North America net revenues — Net revenues increased by $975.8 million, or 49.0%, during Fiscal 2022 as compared to Fiscal 2021, inclusive of the favorable impact of the 53rd week in Fiscal 2022, which resulted in incremental net revenues of approximately $30 million, primarily related to our retail business. On a constant currency basis, net revenues increased by $971.4 million, or 48.8%. The $975.8 million net increase in North America net revenues was driven by: • a $664.5 million net increase related to our North America retail business, reflecting a reduction in store closures and other COVID-19-related disruptions and the continued growth in our digital commerce operations, as well as the favorable impact of the 53rd week in Fiscal 2022. On a constant currency basis, net revenues increased by $661.4 million, reflecting increases of $576.8 million in comparable store sales and $84.6 million in non-comparable store sales. The following table summarizes the percentage change in comparable store sales related to our North America retail business: • a $311.3 million net increase related to our North America wholesale business largely driven by reduced shipments during the comparable prior fiscal year period due to significant COVID-19-related business disruptions, coupled with overall stronger consumer demand. This growth was partially offset by the transition of our Chaps business to a fully licensed business model during the second quarter of Fiscal 2022, as well as other strategic resets within our wholesale distribution channel. Europe net revenues — Net revenues increased by $614.8 million, or 52.7%, during Fiscal 2022 as compared to Fiscal 2021, inclusive of the favorable impact of the 53rd week in Fiscal 2022, which resulted in incremental net revenues of approximately $12 million related to our retail business. On a constant currency basis, net revenues increased by $627.7 million, or 53.8%. The $614.8 million net increase in Europe net revenues was driven by: • a $311.2 million net increase related to our Europe retail business, reflecting a reduction in store closures and other COVID-19-related disruptions and the continued growth in our digital commerce operations, as well as the favorable impact of the 53rd week in Fiscal 2022. On a constant currency basis, net revenues increased by $311.8 million, reflecting increases of $269.8 million in comparable store sales and $42.0 million in non-comparable store sales. The following table summarizes the percentage change in comparable store sales related to our Europe retail business: • a $303.6 million net increase related to our Europe wholesale business largely driven by reduced shipments during the comparable prior fiscal year period due to significant COVID-19-related business disruptions and overall stronger consumer demand, partially offset by net unfavorable foreign currency effects of $12.3 million. Asia net revenues — Net revenues increased by $259.3 million, or 25.2%, during Fiscal 2022 as compared to Fiscal 2021, inclusive of the favorable impact of the 53rd week in Fiscal 2022, which resulted in incremental net revenues of approximately $21 million related to our retail business. On a constant currency basis, net revenues increased by $275.3 million, or 26.8%. The $259.3 million net increase in Asia net revenues was driven by: • a $239.0 million net increase related to our Asia retail business, reflecting a reduction in store closures and other COVID-19-related disruptions and the continued growth in our digital commerce operations, as well as the favorable impact of the 53rd week in Fiscal 2022, partially offset by net unfavorable foreign currency effects of $14.7 million. On a constant currency basis, net revenues increased by $253.7 million, reflecting increases of $145.2 million in comparable store sales and $108.5 million in non-comparable store sales. The following table summarizes the percentage change in comparable store sales related to our Asia retail business: • a $20.3 million net increase related to our Asia wholesale business, reflecting increases most notably in Australia, South Korea, Southeast Asia, and Japan. Gross Profit. Gross profit increased by $1.286 billion, or 44.9%, to $4.148 billion in Fiscal 2022, including net unfavorable foreign currency effects of $18.9 million. Gross profit during Fiscal 2022 reflects non-routine inventory benefits of $13.3 million related to reversals of amounts previously recorded in connection with COVID-19 business disruptions. In comparison, gross profit during Fiscal 2021 reflects non-routine inventory charges of $21.0 million related to COVID-19 business disruptions and $8.3 million recorded in connection with our restructuring plans. Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues increased to 66.7% in Fiscal 2022 from 65.0% in Fiscal 2021. The 170 basis point improvement was primarily driven by lower non-routine inventory charges recorded during Fiscal 2022 as compared to the prior fiscal year, as well as improved pricing, lower levels of promotional activity, and product mix, partially offset by higher product and freight costs and the absence of unusual geographic and channel mix benefits experienced during the prior fiscal year in connection with COVID-19-related business disruptions in North America and Europe. Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues is dependent upon a variety of factors, including changes in the relative sales mix among distribution channels, changes in the mix of products sold, pricing, the timing and level of promotional activities, foreign currency exchange rates, and fluctuations in material costs. These factors, among others, may cause gross profit as a percentage of net revenues to fluctuate from year to year. Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses. SG&A expenses include costs relating to compensation and benefits, advertising and marketing, rent and occupancy, distribution, information technology, legal, depreciation and amortization, bad debt, and other selling and administrative costs. SG&A expenses increased by $667.1 million, or 25.3%, to $3.306 billion in Fiscal 2022, including net favorable foreign currency effects of $5.7 million. The increase in SG&A expenses reflects a reduction in the magnitude of COVID-19 business disruptions and our related mitigating actions, which during the prior fiscal year included (i) lower compensation-related expenses driven by employee furloughs and terminations, reduced pay for our executives, senior management team, and Board of Directors, and COVID-19-related government subsidies, and (ii) lower rent and occupancy costs largely driven by reduced percentage-of-sales-based rent due to widespread store closures and a reduction in traffic, as well as rent abatements negotiated with certain of our landlords. The increase in SG&A expenses also reflects our investments to drive strategic growth, including our marketing and advertising initiatives, and higher non-routine bad debt expense recorded during Fiscal 2022 as compared to the prior fiscal year, partially offset by expense savings associated with the disposition of our former Club Monaco business at the end of the first quarter of Fiscal 2022. SG&A expenses as a percentage of net revenues decreased to 53.2% in Fiscal 2022 from 60.0% in Fiscal 2021. The 680 basis point decline was primarily driven by operating leverage on higher net revenues, partially offset by higher expenses across various categories to drive strategic growth, coupled with the return to more normalized operations in comparison to the prior fiscal year. The $667.1 million increase in SG&A expenses was driven by: Impairment of Assets. During Fiscal 2022 and Fiscal 2021, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $21.3 million and $96.0 million, respectively, to write-down certain long-lived assets. See Note 8 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Restructuring and Other Charges, Net. During Fiscal 2022 and Fiscal 2021, we recorded restructuring charges of $4.0 million and $159.1 million, respectively, primarily consisting of severance and benefits costs and other cash charges, as well as other charges of $11.8 million and $11.4 million, respectively, primarily related to rent and occupancy costs associated with certain previously exited real estate locations for which the related lease agreements have not yet expired. Additionally, during Fiscal 2022, we recognized $4.0 million of income primarily related to a certain revenue share clause in our agreement with Regent that entitled us to receive a portion of the sales generated by the Club Monaco business during a four-month business transition period. We donated this income to the Ralph Lauren Corporate Foundation, a non-profit, charitable foundation, which resulted in a related offsetting $4.0 million donation expense recorded within restructuring and other charges, net in the consolidated statements of operations during Fiscal 2022. We also recorded a charge of $6.4 million during Fiscal 2022 in connection with non-income-related capital taxes resulting from Swiss tax reform. See Note 9 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Operating Income (Loss). During Fiscal 2022, we reported operating income of $798.4 million, as compared to an operating loss of $43.6 million during Fiscal 2021. The $842.0 million increase in operating income reflects the return to more normalized operations in comparison to the prior fiscal year period, as previously discussed, as well as net unfavorable foreign currency effects of $13.2 million. Our operating results during Fiscal 2022 and Fiscal 2021 were negatively impacted by net restructuring-related charges, impairment of assets, and certain other charges (benefits) totaling $32.6 million and $254.4 million, respectively. Operating income as a percentage of net revenues was 12.8% in Fiscal 2022, reflecting a 1,380 basis point improvement from Fiscal 2021. The improvement in operating income as a percentage of net revenues was primarily driven by lower net restructuring-related charges, impairment of assets, and certain other charges (benefits) recorded during Fiscal 2022 as compared to the prior fiscal year, the decrease in SG&A expenses as a percentage of net revenues, and the increase in our gross margin, all as previously discussed. Operating income (loss) and margin for our segments, as well as a discussion of the changes in each reportable segment's operating margin from the prior fiscal year, are provided below: (a) Reflects the disposition of our former Club Monaco business at the end of the first quarter of Fiscal 2022. North America operating margin improved by 600 basis points, primarily due to the favorable impacts of approximately 330 basis points and 170 basis points related to our retail and wholesale businesses, respectively, both largely driven by a decline in SG&A expenses as a percentage of net revenues resulting from operating leverage on higher net revenues. The basis point improvement of our retail business also reflected an increase in our gross margin, while the improvement in our wholesale business reflected a decline in our gross margin. The overall improvement in operating margin also reflected the favorable impact of 100 basis points attributable to lower impairment of assets and non-routine inventory charges during Fiscal 2022 as compared to the prior fiscal year, partially offset by the absence of favorable non-routine bad debt expense adjustments recorded during the current fiscal year. Europe operating margin improved by 870 basis points, primarily due to the favorable impacts of approximately 530 basis points and 320 basis points related to our retail and wholesale businesses, respectively, both largely driven by a decline in SG&A expenses as a percentage of net revenues resulting from operating leverage on higher net revenues. The overall improvement in operating margin also reflected the favorable impact of 90 basis points attributable to lower impairment of assets during Fiscal 2022 as compared to the prior fiscal year, partially offset by higher non-routine bad debt expense recorded during the current fiscal year. These improvements in operating margin were partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency effects and channel mix of approximately 40 basis points and 30 basis points, respectively. Asia operating margin improved by 340 basis points, primarily due to the favorable impact of approximately 260 basis points related to our retail business, largely driven by an increase in our gross margin and a decline in SG&A expenses as a percentage of net revenues. The overall improvement in operating margin also reflected 40 basis points related to our wholesale business, largely driven by a decline in SG&A expenses as a percentage of net revenues. The remaining 40 basis point improvement was primarily driven by favorable foreign currency effects. Unallocated corporate expenses increased by $90.3 million to $667.3 million in Fiscal 2022. The increase in unallocated corporate expenses was due to higher compensation-related expenses of $88.4 million, higher marketing and advertising expenses of $42.1 million, higher consulting fees of $13.8 million and higher other expenses of $11.7 million, partially offset by higher intercompany sourcing commission income of $43.3 million (which is offset at the segment level and eliminates in consolidation) and lower impairment charges of $22.4 million. Unallocated restructuring and other charges, net decreased by $148.3 million to $22.2 million in Fiscal 2022, as previously discussed above and in Note 9 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Non-operating Income (Expense), Net. Non-operating income (expense), net is comprised of interest expense, interest income, and other income (expense), net, which includes foreign currency gains (losses), equity in income (losses) from our equity-method investees, and other non-operating expenses. During Fiscal 2022, we reported non-operating expense, net, of $43.8 million, as compared to $31.2 million in Fiscal 2021. The $12.6 million increase in non-operating expense, net was driven by: • a $5.5 million increase in interest expense, primarily driven by our finance leases, as well as the higher average level of outstanding debt during Fiscal 2022 (see " Financial Condition and Liquidity — Cash Flows "); • a $4.2 million decline in interest income, primarily driven by lower interest rates in financial markets; and • a $2.9 million decline in other income (expense), net, primarily driven by lower net foreign currency gains during Fiscal 2022 as compared to the prior fiscal year period. Income Tax Provision. The income tax provision represents federal, foreign, state and local income taxes. Our effective tax rate will change from period to period based on various factors including, but not limited to, the geographic mix of earnings, the timing and amount of foreign dividends, enacted tax legislation, state and local taxes, tax audit findings and settlements, and the interaction of various global tax strategies. The income tax provision and effective tax rate in Fiscal 2022 were $154.5 million and 20.5%, respectively, as compared to $46.3 million and (61.9%), respectively, in Fiscal 2021. The $108.2 million increase in our income tax provision was driven by the increase in our pretax income, as well as an increase in our effective tax rate of 8,240 basis points. Our income tax provision in Fiscal 2021 reflected incremental tax expense of $33.7 million primarily related to a valuation allowance provided against domestic losses attributable to significant COVID-19 business disruptions and $13.8 million related to international tax legislation enacted in connection with the European Union's anti-tax avoidance directive, partially offset by an income tax benefit of $0.9 million primarily due to a net operating loss carryback under the CARES Act. Collectively, this $46.6 million of net incremental tax expense impacted our prior fiscal year effective tax rate by 6,230 basis points. The remaining 2,010 basis point increase in our effective tax rate was primarily driven by the impact of stock compensation, favorable impact of the change in the geographic mix of our worldwide earnings, tax adjustments related to audit settlements, and certain deferred tax adjustments, partially offset by $3.4 million related to a net operating loss carryback under the CARES Act. See Note 10 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Net Income (Loss). We reported net income of $600.1 million in Fiscal 2022, as compared to a net loss of $121.1 million in Fiscal 2021. The $721.2 million increase in net income was primarily due to the increase in our operating income, partially offset by the increase in our income tax provision, both as previously discussed. Our operating results during Fiscal 2022 and Fiscal 2021 were negatively impacted by net restructuring-related charges, impairment of assets, and certain other charges (benefits) totaling $32.6 million and $254.4 million, respectively, which had an after-tax effect of reducing net income by $23.2 million and $201.5 million, respectively. Partially offsetting these charges was the favorable impact of the 53rd week in Fiscal 2022, which increased net income by $16.5 million. Our net loss during Fiscal 2021 also reflected $46.6 million of incremental net tax expense recorded in connection with one-time tax events, as previously discussed. Net Income (Loss) per Diluted Share. We reported net income per diluted share of $8.07 in Fiscal 2022, as compared to a net loss per diluted share of $1.65 in Fiscal 2021. The $9.72 per share increase was driven by the higher level of net income, as previously discussed. Net income per diluted share in Fiscal 2022 and Fiscal 2021 were negatively impacted by $0.31 per share and $2.71 per share, respectively, related to net restructuring-related charges, impairment of assets, and certain other charges (benefits), and favorably impacted by approximately $0.22 per share as a result of the 53rd week in Fiscal 2022, as previously discussed. Net loss per diluted share in Fiscal 2021 was also negatively impacted by $0.64 per share due to incremental net tax expense recorded in connection with one-time tax events, as previously discussed. Fiscal 2021 Compared to Fiscal 2020 The following table summarizes our results of operations and expresses the percentage relationship to net revenues of certain financial statement captions. All percentages shown in the below table and the discussion that follows have been calculated using unrounded numbers. (a) Effective tax rate is calculated by dividing the income tax benefit (provision) by income (loss) before income taxes. NM    Not meaningful. Net Revenues. Net revenues decreased by $1.759 billion, or 28.6%, to $4.401 billion in Fiscal 2021 as compared to Fiscal 2020, including net favorable foreign currency effects of $80.7 million. On a constant currency basis, net revenues decreased by $1.840 billion, or 29.9%. The following table summarizes the percentage change in our Fiscal 2021 consolidated comparable store sales as compared to the prior fiscal year, inclusive of adverse impacts related to COVID-19 business disruptions: Our global average store count increased by 20 stores and concession shops during Fiscal 2021 compared with the prior fiscal year, largely driven by new openings in Asia. The following table details our retail store presence by segment as of the periods presented: In addition to our stores, we sold products online in North America, Europe, and Asia through our various digital commerce sites, as well as through our Polo mobile app in North America and the United Kingdom. We also sold products online through various third-party digital partner commerce sites, primarily in Asia. Net revenues for our segments, as well as a discussion of the changes in each reportable segment's net revenues from the prior fiscal year, are provided below: North America net revenues — Net revenues decreased by $1.148 billion, or 36.6%, during Fiscal 2021 as compared to Fiscal 2020, on both a reported and constant currency basis. The $1.148 billion net decline in North America net revenues was driven by: • a $634.9 million net decrease related to our North America wholesale business, driven by COVID-19 business disruptions and continued challenging department store traffic trends; and • a $513.2 million net decrease related to our North America retail business, inclusive of the adverse impact of COVID-19 business disruptions. On a constant currency basis, net revenues decreased by $513.1 million driven by decreases of $498.4 million in comparable store sales and $14.7 million in non-comparable store sales. The following table summarizes the percentage change in comparable store sales related to our North America retail business, inclusive of adverse impacts related to COVID-19 business disruptions: Europe net revenues — Net revenues decreased by $466.3 million, or 28.6%, during Fiscal 2021 as compared to Fiscal 2020. On a constant currency basis, net revenues decreased by $518.4 million, or 31.8%. The $466.3 million net decline in Europe net revenues was driven by: • a $357.5 million net decrease related to our Europe retail business, inclusive of the adverse impact of COVID-19 business disruptions, partially offset by net favorable foreign currency effects of $15.1 million. On a constant currency basis, net revenues decreased by $372.6 million driven by decreases of $336.2 million in comparable store sales and $36.4 million in non-comparable store sales. The following table summarizes the percentage change in comparable store sales related to our Europe retail business, inclusive of adverse impacts related to COVID-19 business disruptions: • a $108.8 million net decrease related to our Europe wholesale business driven by COVID-19 business disruptions partially offset by net favorable foreign currency effects of $37.0 million. Asia net revenues — Net revenues increased by $10.3 million, or 1.0%, during Fiscal 2021 as compared to Fiscal 2020. On a constant currency basis, net revenues decreased by $18.2 million, or 1.8%. The $10.3 million net increase in Asia net revenues was driven by: • a $20.4 million net increase related to our Asia retail business, inclusive of the adverse impact of COVID-19 business disruptions, as well as net favorable foreign currency effects of $26.9 million. On a constant currency basis, net revenues decreased by $6.5 million, reflecting a decrease of $43.1 million in comparable store sales, partially offset by an increase of $36.6 million in non-comparable store sales. The following table summarizes the percentage change in comparable store sales related to our Asia retail business, inclusive of adverse impacts related to COVID-19 business disruptions: • This increase was partially offset by a $10.1 million net decrease related to our Asia wholesale business driven by COVID-19 business disruptions, primarily in Japan. Gross Profit. Gross profit decreased by $791.9 million, or 21.7%, to $2.861 billion in Fiscal 2021, including net favorable foreign currency effects of $60.2 million. Gross profit during Fiscal 2021 and Fiscal 2020 reflects adverse impacts related to COVID-19 business disruptions, including incremental inventory charges of $21.0 million and $157.3 million, respectively. Gross profit during Fiscal 2021 and Fiscal 2020 also reflects inventory charges of $8.3 million and $2.2 million, respectively, recorded in connection with our restructuring plans. Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues increased to 65.0% in Fiscal 2021 from 59.3% in Fiscal 2020. The 570 basis point improvement was primarily driven by improved pricing and lower levels of promotional activity, lower non-routine inventory charges recorded during Fiscal 2021 as compared to the prior fiscal year, and favorable geographic and channel mix. Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses. SG&A expenses decreased by $599.0 million, or 18.5%, to $2.639 billion in Fiscal 2021, including net unfavorable foreign currency effect of $40.7 million. The decrease in SG&A expenses reflects impacts related to COVID-19 business disruptions and our related mitigating actions, including (i) lower compensation-related expenses largely driven by employee furloughs and terminations, reduced pay for our executives, senior management team, and Board of Directors, and COVID-19-related government subsidies, (ii) lower rent and occupancy costs largely driven by reduced percentage-of-sales-based rent due to store closures and a reduction in traffic, as well as rent abatements negotiated with certain of our landlords, (iii) favorable COVID-19-related bad debt expense adjustments, and (iv) our operational discipline. SG&A expenses as a percentage of net revenues increased to 60.0% in Fiscal 2021 from 52.6% in Fiscal 2020. The 740 basis point increase was primarily due to operating deleverage on lower net revenues, partially offset by expense savings across various categories. The $599.0 million decrease in SG&A expenses was driven by: Impairment of Assets. During Fiscal 2021 and Fiscal 2020, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $96.0 million and $31.6 million, respectively, to write-down certain long-lived assets. See Note 8 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Restructuring and Other Charges, Net. During Fiscal 2021 and Fiscal 2020, we recorded restructuring charges of $159.1 million and $37.6 million, respectively, primarily consisting of severance and benefits costs, as well as other charges of $11.4 million and $8.8 million, respectively, primarily related to rent and occupancy costs associated with certain previously exited real estate locations for which the related lease agreements had not yet expired. Additionally, during Fiscal 2020, we recorded other charges of $20.8 million related to the charitable donation of the net cash proceeds received from the sale of our corporate jet. See Note 9 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Operating Income (Loss). During Fiscal 2021, we reported an operating loss of $43.6 million, as compared to operating income of $317.0 million during Fiscal 2020. The $360.6 million decline in operating income reflects net adverse impacts related to COVID-19 business disruptions, partially offset by net favorable foreign currency effects of $19.5 million. Our operating results during Fiscal 2021 and Fiscal 2020 were also negatively impacted by restructuring-related charges, impairment of assets, and certain other charges (a portion of which related to COVID-19 business disruptions) totaling $254.4 million and $321.8 million, respectively, as previously discussed. Operating loss as a percentage of net revenues was 1.0% in Fiscal 2021, reflecting a 610 basis point decline from Fiscal 2020. The decline in operating income as a percentage of net revenues was primarily driven by the increase in SG&A expenses as a percentage of net revenues, partially offset by the increase in our gross margin and lower net restructuring-related charges, impairment of assets, and certain other charges recorded during Fiscal 2021 as compared to the prior fiscal year, all as previously discussed. Operating income (loss) and margin for our segments, as well as a discussion of the changes in each reportable segment's operating margin from the prior fiscal year, are provided below: North America operating margin improved by 230 basis points, primarily due to approximately 400 basis points attributable to net lower non-routine inventory charges and COVID-19-related bad debt expense recorded during Fiscal 2021 as compared to the prior fiscal year, partially offset by higher impairment of assets recorded during Fiscal 2021. Partially offsetting this net favorable improvement in operating margin were the unfavorable impacts of approximately 90 basis points and 60 basis points attributable to our wholesale and retail businesses, respectively, both largely driven by an increase in SG&A expenses as a percentage of net revenues, partially offset by an increase in our gross margin. Our North America operating margin also reflected the unfavorable impact of approximately 20 basis points attributable to other factors, including unfavorable channel mix. Europe operating margin declined by 440 basis points, primarily due to the unfavorable impact of approximately 790 basis points related to our retail business largely driven by an increase in SG&A expenses as a percentage of net revenues, partially offset by an increase in our gross margin. This decline in operating income was partially offset by approximately 180 basis points attributable to favorable channel mix and 160 basis points attributable to net lower non-routine inventory charges and COVID-19-related bad debt expense recorded during Fiscal 2021 as compared to the prior fiscal year, partially offset by higher impairment of assets recorded during Fiscal 2021. The remaining change in operating margin was attributable to other factors, including slight improvement in our wholesale business. Asia operating margin improved by 210 basis points, primarily due to approximately 190 basis points attributable to net lower non-routine inventory charges, COVID-19-related bad debt expense, and impairment of assets recorded during Fiscal 2021 as compared to the prior fiscal year, as well as favorable foreign currency effects of approximately 60 basis points. The increase in operating margin also reflected the favorable impact of approximately 20 basis points related to our retail business. These increases in operating margin were partially offset by the unfavorable impact of approximately 30 basis points related to our wholesale business largely driven by an increase in SG&A expenses as a percentage of net revenues. The remaining change in operating margin was attributable to other factors, including unfavorable channel mix. Unallocated corporate expenses decreased by $41.1 million to $577.0 million in Fiscal 2021. The decline in unallocated corporate expenses was due to lower compensation-related expenses of $87.3 million and lower rent and occupancy costs of $24.3 million, partially offset by lower intercompany sourcing commission income of $33.9 million (which is offset at the segment level and eliminates in consolidation), higher impairment of asset charges of $33.2 million, and higher other expenses of $3.4 million. Unallocated restructuring and other charges, net increased by $103.3 million to $170.5 million in Fiscal 2021, as previously discussed above and in Note 9 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Non-operating Income (Expense), Net. During Fiscal 2021, we reported non-operating expense, net, of $31.2 million, as compared to non-operating income, net, of $9.4 million in Fiscal 2020. The $40.6 million decline in non-operating income was driven by: • a $30.9 million increase in interest expense, primarily driven by the net increase in our borrowings during Fiscal 2021 (see " Financial Condition and Liquidity — Cash Flows "); and • a $24.7 million decline in interest income, primarily driven by the decrease in our investment portfolio and lower interest rates in financial markets. These unfavorable variances were partially offset by a $15.0 million favorable change in other income (expense), net, primarily driven by the absence of a $7.1 million impairment of an equity method investment recorded during Fiscal 2020, as well as higher net foreign currency gains during Fiscal 2021 as compared to the prior fiscal year. Income Tax Benefit (Provision). We reported an income tax provision and effective tax rate of $46.3 million and (61.9%), respectively, in Fiscal 2021, as compared to an income tax benefit and effective tax rate of $57.9 million and (17.7%), respectively, in Fiscal 2020. The $104.2 million increase in our income tax provision was driven by the absence of a one-time benefit of $122.9 million recorded in connection with Swiss tax reform during the prior fiscal year, which reduced our prior fiscal year effective tax rate by 3,760 basis points. Our income tax provision in Fiscal 2021 also reflected incremental tax expense of $33.7 million primarily related to a valuation allowance provided against domestic losses attributable to significant COVID-19 business disruptions and $13.8 million related to international tax legislation enacted in connection with the European Union's anti-tax avoidance directive, partially offset by an income tax benefit of $0.9 million primarily due to a net operating loss carryback under the CARES Act. Collectively, this $46.6 million of net incremental tax expense unfavorably impacted our Fiscal 2021 effective tax rate by 6,230 basis points. The remaining 1,950 basis point decline was attributable to tax impacts on stock-based compensation, as well as the absence of favorable settlements of certain international income tax audits that impacted the prior fiscal year. See Note 10 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for discussion regarding the Swiss Tax Act. Net Income (Loss). We reported a net loss of $121.1 million in Fiscal 2021, as compared to net income of $384.3 million in Fiscal 2020. The $505.4 million decline in net income was primarily due to the decline in our operating income, the increase in our income tax provision, and higher non-operating expense, net, all as previously discussed. Our operating results during Fiscal 2021 and Fiscal 2020 included net restructuring-related charges, impairment of assets, and certain other charges totaling $254.4 million and $321.8 million, respectively, which had an after-tax effect of reducing net income by $201.5 million and $244.8 million, respectively. Net income (loss) during Fiscal 2021 and Fiscal 2020 also reflected $46.6 million of incremental net tax expense and an income tax benefit of $122.9 million, respectively, recorded in connection with one-time income tax events, as previously discussed. Net Income (Loss) per Diluted Share. We reported a net loss per diluted share of $1.65 in Fiscal 2021, as compared to net income per diluted share of $4.98 in Fiscal 2020. The $6.63 per share decline was due to the lower level of net income, as previously discussed.  Net income (loss) per diluted share in Fiscal 2021 and Fiscal 2020 were negatively impacted by $2.71 per share and $3.17 per share, respectively, as a result of net restructuring-related charges, impairment of assets, and certain other charges, as previously discussed. Net income (loss) per diluted share in Fiscal 2021 and Fiscal 2020 were also negatively impacted by $0.64 per share due to incremental net tax expense and favorably impacted by $1.59 per share due to an income tax benefit, respectively, recorded in connection with one-time tax events, as previously discussed. FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY Financial Condition The following table presents our financial condition as of April 2, 2022 and March 27, 2021. (a) See Note 11 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for discussion of the carrying values of our debt. The decrease in our net cash and short-term investments position at April 2, 2022 as compared to March 27, 2021 was primarily due to our use of cash to support Class A common stock repurchases of  $492.6 million, including withholdings in satisfaction of tax obligations for stock-based compensation awards, to invest in our business through $166.9 million in capital expenditures, and to make dividend payments of $150.0 million partially offset by operating cash flows of $715.9 million. The decrease in our equity was attributable to our share repurchase activity and dividends declared during Fiscal 2022,  partially offset by our comprehensive income and the net impact of stock-based compensation arrangements. Cash Flows Fiscal 2022 Compared to Fiscal 2021 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $715.9 million during Fiscal 2022, as compared to $380.9 million during Fiscal 2021. The $335.0 million net increase in cash provided by operating activities was due to an increase in net income before non-cash charges, partially offset by a net unfavorable change related to our operating assets and liabilities, including our working capital, as compared to the prior fiscal year. The net unfavorable change related to our operating assets and liabilities, including our working capital, was primarily driven by: • a year-over-year increase in our inventory levels largely to support revenue growth, as well as higher goods-in-transit to mitigate ongoing global supply chain delays; • a net unfavorable change in our accrued liabilities largely driven by an unfavorable change in our restructuring reserve due to a decrease in restructuring charges recorded during Fiscal 2022 as compared to the prior fiscal year, partially offset by a favorable change in our dividends payable related to the temporary suspension and subsequent resumption of our quarterly cash dividend program; and • an unfavorable change related to our prepaid expenses and other current assets largely driven by an increase in non-trade receivables primarily related to transition services being performed in connection with the disposition of our former Club Monaco business (see " Recent Developments "), as well as the timing of cash payments; and • an unfavorable change related to our income tax receivables and payables largely driven by the timing of cash receipts and payments, respectively. These decreases related to our operating assets and liabilities were partially offset by: • a favorable change related to our accounts receivable, largely driven by a return to more normalized operations in comparison to the prior fiscal year period. Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities. Net cash used in investing activities was $717.9 million during Fiscal 2022, as compared to cash provided by investing activities of $195.0 million during Fiscal 2021. The $912.9 million net decrease in cash provided by investing activities was primarily driven by: • an $848.6 million decrease in proceeds from sales and maturities of investments, less purchases of investments. During Fiscal 2022, we made net purchases of investments of $546.0 million, as compared to receiving net proceeds from sales and maturities of investments of $302.6 million during Fiscal 2021; and • a $59.1 million increase in capital expenditures. During Fiscal 2022, we spent $166.9 million on capital expenditures, as compared to $107.8 million during Fiscal 2021. Our capital expenditures during Fiscal 2022 primarily related to store openings and renovations, as well as enhancements to our information technology systems. In Fiscal 2023, we expect to spend approximately $290 million to $310 million on capital expenditures primarily related to store opening and renovations, as well as enhancements to our information technology systems. Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities. Net cash used in financing activities was $665.7 million during Fiscal 2022, as compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $356.8 million during Fiscal 2021. The $1.022 billion net decrease in cash provided by financing activities was primarily driven by: • a $466.9 million decrease in cash proceeds from the issuance of debt, less debt repayments. During Fiscal 2022, we did not issue or repay any debt. On a comparative basis, during Fiscal 2021, we received $1.242 billion in proceeds from the issuance of our 1.700% unsecured senior notes and 2.950% unsecured senior notes, a portion of which was used to repay $475.0 million of borrowings previously outstanding under our credit facilities and our previously outstanding $300.0 million principal amount of 2.625% unsecured senior notes that matured August 18, 2020; • a $454.9 million increase in cash used to repurchase shares of our Class A common stock. During Fiscal 2022, we resumed activities under our common stock repurchase program and repurchased $450.5 million of shares of our Class A common stock, and an additional $42.1 million in shares of our Class A common stock were surrendered or withheld in satisfaction of withholding taxes in connection with the vesting of awards under our long-term stock incentive plans. On a comparative basis, during Fiscal 2021, $37.7 million in shares of our Class A common stock were surrendered or withheld for taxes; and • a $100.2 million increase in payments of dividends, driven by the reinstatement of our quarterly cash dividend program during Fiscal 2022 after being temporarily suspended at the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic as a preemptive action to preserve cash and strengthen our liquidity position, as discussed in " Dividends " below. Fiscal 2021 Compared to Fiscal 2020 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased to $380.9 million during Fiscal 2021, from $754.6 million during Fiscal 2020. The $373.7 million net decline in cash provided by operating activities was due to a decrease in net income before non-cash charges, partially offset by a net favorable change related to our operating assets and liabilities, including our working capital, as compared to the prior fiscal year. The net favorable change related to our operating assets and liabilities, including our working capital, was primarily driven by: • a favorable change in our accrued liabilities, primarily driven by the increase in our restructuring reserve related to charges recorded in connection with the Fiscal 2021 Strategic Realignment Plan; and • a favorable change in our accounts payable, driven by our extended payment terms. These increases related to our operating assets and liabilities were partially offset by: • an unfavorable change related to our accounts receivable, largely driven by an increase in wholesale revenue during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2021 as compared to the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2020; • an unfavorable change in inventory, largely driven by lower COVID-19-related inventory charges recorded in Fiscal 2021 as compared to the prior year period; and • an unfavorable change in our prepaid expenses and other current assets, primarily driven by the timing of cash payments. Net Cash Provided by Investing Activities. Net cash provided by investing activities was $195.0 million during Fiscal 2021, as compared to $702.1 million during Fiscal 2020. The $507.1 million net decrease in cash provided by investing activities was primarily driven by: • a $648.1 million decrease in proceeds from sales and maturities of investments, less purchases of investments. During Fiscal 2021, we received net proceeds from sales and maturities of investments of $302.6 million, as compared to $950.7 million during Fiscal 2020. This decrease in cash provided by investing activities was partially offset by: • a $162.5 million decrease in capital expenditures. During Fiscal 2021, we spent $107.8 million on capital expenditures, as compared to $270.3 million during Fiscal 2020. This decline reflects the temporary postponement of non-critical capital expenditures as a preemptive action to preserve cash and strengthen our liquidity position in response to business disruptions related to the COVID-19 pandemic. Our capital expenditures during Fiscal 2021 primarily related to international store openings and renovations, as well as enhancements to our information technology systems. Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities. Net cash provided by financing activities was $356.8 million during Fiscal 2021, as compared to net cash used in financing activities of $438.2 million during Fiscal 2020. The $795.0 million net increase in cash provided by financing activities was primarily driven by: • a $657.1 million decrease in cash used to repurchase shares of our Class A common stock. During Fiscal 2021, $37.7 million in shares of Class A common stock were surrendered or withheld in satisfaction of withholding taxes in connection with the vesting of awards under our long-term stock incentive plans and no shares of Class A common stock were repurchased pursuant to our common stock repurchase program, which was temporarily suspended as a preemptive action to preserve cash and strengthen our liquidity position in response to business disruptions related to the COVID-19 pandemic. On a comparative basis, during Fiscal 2020, $650.3 million in shares of Class A common stock were repurchased and $44.5 million in shares of Class A common stock were surrendered or withheld for taxes; and • a $154.1 million decrease in payments of dividends, driven by the temporary suspension of our quarterly cash dividend program as a preemptive action to preserve cash and strengthen our liquidity position, as discussed in " Dividends " below. These increases in cash provided by financing activities were partially offset by: • an $8.1 million decrease in cash proceeds from the issuance of debt, less debt repayments. During Fiscal 2021, we received $1.242 billion in proceeds from our issuance of 1.700% unsecured senior notes and 2.950% unsecured senior notes, a portion of which was used to repay $475 million of borrowings previously outstanding under our credit facilities and our previously outstanding $300 million principal amount of 2.625% unsecured senior notes that matured in August 2020. On a comparative basis, during Fiscal 2020 we borrowed $475 million under our credit facilities as a preemptive action to preserve cash and strengthen our liquidity in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Sources of Liquidity Our primary sources of liquidity are the cash flows generated from our operations, our available cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, availability under our credit and overdraft facilities and commercial paper program, and other available financing options. During Fiscal 2022, we generated $715.9 million of net cash flows from our operations. As of April 2, 2022, we had $2.598 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, of which $995.5 million were held by our subsidiaries domiciled outside the U.S. We are not dependent on foreign cash to fund our domestic operations. Undistributed foreign earnings generated on or before December 31, 2017 that were subject to the one-time mandatory transition tax in connection with U.S. tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "TCJA") are not considered to be permanently reinvested and may be repatriated to the U.S. in the future with minimal or no additional U.S. taxation. We intend to permanently reinvest undistributed foreign earnings generated after December 31, 2017 that were not subject to the one-time mandatory transition tax. However, if our plans change and we choose to repatriate post-2017 earnings to the U.S. in the future, we would be subject to applicable U.S. and foreign taxes. The following table presents the total availability, borrowings outstanding, and remaining availability under our credit and overdraft facilities and Commercial Paper Program as of April 2, 2022: (a) As defined in Note 11 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. (b) Borrowings under the Commercial Paper Program are supported by the Global Credit Facility. Accordingly, we do not expect combined borrowings outstanding under the Commercial Paper Program and the Global Credit Facility to exceed $500 million. (c) Represents outstanding letters of credit for which we were contingently liable under the Global Credit Facility as of April 2, 2022. (d) We amended the China Credit Facility during the first quarter of Fiscal 2023, whereby the borrowing capacity was increased to 100 million Chinese Renminbi (approximately $16 million). Accordingly, our total availability under the Pan-Asia Credit Facilities was increased to approximately $41 million during the first quarter of Fiscal 2023. See Note 11 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. We believe that the Global Credit Facility is adequately diversified with no undue concentration in any one financial institution. In particular, as of April 2, 2022, there were eight financial institutions participating in the Global Credit Facility, with no one participant maintaining a maximum commitment percentage in excess of 20%. In accordance with the terms of the agreement, we have the ability to expand our borrowing availability under the Global Credit Facility to $1 billion through the full term of the facility, subject to the agreement of one or more new or existing lenders under the facility to increase their commitments. Borrowings under the Pan-Asia Credit Facilities and Japan Overdraft Facility (collectively, the "Pan-Asia Borrowing Facilities") are guaranteed by the parent company and are granted at the sole discretion of the participating banks (as described within Note 11 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements), subject to availability of the respective banks' funds and satisfaction of certain regulatory requirements. We have no reason to believe that the participating institutions will be unable to fulfill their obligations to provide financing in accordance with the terms of the Global Credit Facility and the Pan-Asia Borrowing Facilities in the event of our election to draw additional funds in the foreseeable future. Our sources of liquidity are used to fund our ongoing cash requirements, including working capital requirements, global retail store and digital commerce expansion, construction and renovation of shop-within-shops, investment in infrastructure, including technology, acquisitions, joint ventures, payment of dividends, debt repayments, Class A common stock repurchases, settlement of contingent liabilities (including uncertain tax positions), and other corporate activities, including our restructuring actions. We believe that our existing sources of cash, the availability under our credit facilities, and our ability to access capital markets will be sufficient to support our operating, capital, and debt service requirements for the foreseeable future, the ongoing development of our businesses, and our plans for further business expansion. However, prolonged periods of adverse economic conditions or business disruptions in any of our key regions, or a combination thereof, such as those resulting from pandemic diseases and other catastrophic events, could impede our ability to pay our obligations as they become due or return value to our shareholders, as well as delay previously planned expenditures related to our operations. See Note 11 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information relating to our credit facilities. Debt and Covenant Compliance In August 2018, we completed a registered public debt offering and issued $400 million aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes due September 15, 2025, which bear interest at a fixed rate of 3.750%, payable semi-annually (the "3.750% Senior Notes"). In June 2020, we completed another registered public debt offering and issued an additional $500 million aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes due June 15, 2022, which bear interest at a fixed rate of 1.700%, payable semi-annually (the "1.700% Senior Notes"), and $750 million aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes due June 15, 2030, which bear interest at a fixed rate of 2.950%, payable semi-annually (the "2.950% Senior Notes"). The indenture and supplemental indentures governing the 3.750% Senior Notes, 1.700% Senior Notes, and 2.950% Senior Notes (as supplemented, the "Indenture") contain certain covenants that restrict our ability, subject to specified exceptions, to incur certain liens; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; consolidate or merge with another party; or sell, lease, or convey all or substantially all of our property or assets to another party. However, the Indenture does not contain any financial covenants. We have a credit facility that provides for a $500 million senior unsecured revolving line of credit through August 12, 2024, which is also used to support the issuance of letters of credit and the maintenance of the Commercial Paper Program (the "Global Credit Facility"). Borrowings under the Global Credit Facility may be denominated in U.S. Dollars and other currencies, including Euros, Hong Kong Dollars, and Japanese Yen. We have the ability to expand the borrowing availability under the Global Credit Facility to $1 billion, subject to the agreement of one or more new or existing lenders under the facility to increase their commitments. There are no mandatory reductions in borrowing ability throughout the term of the Global Credit Facility. The Global Credit Facility contains a number of covenants, as described in Note 11 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. As of April 2, 2022, no Event of Default (as such term is defined pursuant to the Global Credit Facility) has occurred under our Global Credit Facility. The Pan-Asia Borrowing Facilities do not contain any financial covenants. See Note 11 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information relating to our debt and covenant compliance. Common Stock Repurchase Program Repurchases of shares of our Class A common stock are subject to overall business and market conditions, as well as other potential factors such as the temporary restrictions previously in place under our Global Credit Facility. Accordingly, in response to business disruptions related to the COVID-19 pandemic, effective beginning in the first quarter of Fiscal 2021, we temporarily suspended our common stock repurchase program as a preemptive action to preserve cash and strengthen our liquidity position. However, we resumed activities under our Class A common stock repurchase program during the third quarter of Fiscal 2022 as restrictions under our Global Credit Facility were lifted (see Note 11 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements) and overall business and market conditions have improved since the COVID-19 pandemic first emerged. On February 2, 2022, our Board of Directors approved an expansion of our existing common stock repurchase program that allowed us to repurchase up to an additional $1.500 billion of our Class A common stock. As of April 2, 2022, the remaining availability under our Class A common stock repurchase program was approximately $1.629 billion. See Note 16 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information relating to our Class A common stock repurchase program. Dividends Except as discussed below, we have maintained a regular quarterly cash dividend program on our common stock since 2003. In response to business disruptions related to the COVID-19 pandemic, effective beginning in the first quarter of Fiscal 2021 we temporarily suspended our quarterly cash dividend program as a preemptive action to preserve cash and strengthen our liquidity position. On May 19, 2021, our Board of Directors approved the reinstatement of our quarterly cash dividend program at the pre-pandemic amount of $0.6875 per share. On May 18, 2022, our Board of Directors approved an increase to the quarterly cash dividend on our common stock from $0.6875 to $0.75 per share. The first quarterly dividend declared to reflect this increase will be payable to shareholders of record at the close of business on July 1, 2022 and will be paid on July 15, 2022. We intend to continue to pay regular dividends on outstanding shares of our common stock. However, any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will ultimately be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, and other factors that the Board of Directors may deem relevant, including economic and market conditions. See Note 16 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information relating to our quarterly cash dividend program. Material Cash Requirements Firm Commitments The following table summarizes certain of our aggregate material cash requirements as of April 2, 2022, and the estimated timing and effect that such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. We expect to fund these firm commitments with operating cash flows generated in the normal course of business and, if necessary, through availability under our credit facilities or other accessible sources of financing. The following is a description of our material, firmly committed obligations as of April 2, 2022: • Senior Notes represent the principal amount of our outstanding 3.750% Senior Notes, 1.700% Senior Notes, and 2.950% Senior Notes. Amounts do not include any call premiums, unamortized debt issuance costs, or interest payments (see below); • Interest payments on debt represent the semi-annual contractual interest payments due on our 3.750% Senior Notes, 1.700% Senior Notes, and 2.950% Senior Notes. Amounts do not include the impact of potential cash flows underlying our related swap contracts (see Note 13 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for discussion of our swap contracts); • Lease obligations represent fixed payments due over the lease term of our noncancelable leases of real estate and operating equipment, including rent, real estate taxes, insurance, common area maintenance fees, and/or certain other costs. For lease terms that have commenced, information has been presented separately for operating and finance leases. Other lease commitments relate to executed lease agreements for which the related lease terms have not yet commenced as of April 2, 2022; • Inventory purchase commitments represent our legally-binding agreements to purchase fixed or minimum quantities of goods at determinable prices; • Mandatory transition tax payments represent our remaining tax obligation incurred in connection with the deemed repatriation of previously deferred foreign earnings pursuant to the TCJA (see Note 10 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for discussion of the TCJA); and • Other commitments primarily represent our legally-binding obligations under sponsorship, licensing, and other marketing and advertising agreements; information technology-related service agreements; and pension-related obligations. Excluded from the above contractual obligations table is the non-current liability for unrecognized tax benefits of $91.9 million as of April 2, 2022, as we cannot make a reliable estimate of the period in which the liability will be settled, if ever. The above table also excludes the following: (i) amounts recorded in current liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet as of April 2, 2022, which will be paid within one year, other than lease obligations, mandatory transition tax payments, and accrued interest payments on debt; and (ii) non-current liabilities that have no cash outflows associated with them (e.g., deferred income), or the cash outflows associated with them are uncertain or do not represent a "purchase obligation" as such term is used herein (e.g., deferred taxes, derivative financial instruments, and other miscellaneous items). We also have certain contractual arrangements that would require us to make payments if certain events or circumstances occur. See Note 15 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a description of our contingent commitments not included in the above table. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements In addition to the commitments included in the above table, our other off-balance sheet firm commitments relating to our outstanding letters of credit amounted to $9.5 million as of April 2, 2022. We do not maintain any other off-balance sheet arrangements, transactions, obligations, or other relationships with unconsolidated entities that would be expected to have a material current or future effect on our consolidated financial statements. MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT As discussed in Note 13 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, we are exposed to a variety of levels and types of risks, including the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on foreign currency-denominated balances, certain anticipated cash flows of our international operations, and the value of reported net assets of our foreign operations, as well as changes in the fair value of our fixed-rate debt obligations relating to fluctuations in benchmark interest rates. Accordingly, in the normal course of business we assess such risks and, in accordance with our established policies and procedures, may use derivative financial instruments to manage and mitigate them. We do not use derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. Given our use of derivative instruments, we are exposed to the risk that the counterparties to such contracts will fail to meet their contractual obligations. To mitigate such counterparty credit risk, it is our policy to only enter into contracts with carefully selected financial institutions based upon an evaluation of their credit ratings and certain other factors, adhering to established limits for credit exposure. Our established policies and procedures for mitigating credit risk include ongoing review and assessment of the creditworthiness of our counterparties. We also enter into master netting arrangements with counterparties, when possible, to further mitigate credit risk. As a result of the above considerations, we do not believe that we are exposed to undue concentration of counterparty risk with respect to our derivative contracts as of April 2, 2022. However, we do have in aggregate $32.6 million of derivative instruments in net asset positions held across six creditworthy financial institutions. Foreign Currency Risk Management We manage our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates using forward foreign currency exchange and cross-currency swap contracts. Refer to Note 13 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a summary of the notional amounts and fair values of our outstanding forward foreign currency exchange and cross-currency swap contracts, as well as the impact on earnings and other comprehensive income of such instruments for the fiscal periods presented. Forward Foreign Currency Exchange Contracts We enter into forward foreign currency exchange contracts to mitigate risk related to exchange rate fluctuations on inventory transactions made in an entity's non-functional currency, the settlement of foreign currency-denominated balances, and the translation of certain foreign operations' net assets into U.S. Dollars. As part of our overall strategy for managing the level of exposure to such exchange rate risk, relating primarily to the Euro, the Japanese Yen, the South Korean Won, the Australian Dollar, the Canadian Dollar, the British Pound Sterling, the Swiss Franc, and the Chinese Renminbi, we generally hedge a portion of our related exposures anticipated over the next twelve months using forward foreign currency exchange contracts with maturities of two months to one year to provide continuing coverage over the period of the respective exposure. Our foreign exchange risk management activities are governed by established policies and procedures. These policies and procedures provide a framework that allows for the management of currency exposures while ensuring the activities are conducted within our established guidelines. Our policies include guidelines for the organizational structure of our risk management function and for internal controls over foreign exchange risk management activities, including, but not limited to, authorization levels, transaction limits, and credit quality controls, as well as various measurements for monitoring compliance. We monitor foreign exchange risk using different techniques, including periodic review of market values and performance of sensitivity analyses. Cross-Currency Swap Contracts We periodically designate pay-fixed rate, receive-fixed rate cross-currency swap contracts as hedges of our net investment in certain European subsidiaries. Our pay-fixed rate, receive-fixed rate cross-currency swap contracts swap U.S. Dollar-denominated fixed interest rate payments based on the contract's notional amount and the fixed rate of interest payable on certain of our senior notes for Euro-denominated fixed interest rate payments, thereby economically converting a portion of our fixed-rate U.S. Dollar-denominated senior note obligations to fixed rate Euro-denominated obligations. See Note 3 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our foreign currency exposures and the types of derivative instruments used to hedge those exposures. Sensitivity We perform a sensitivity analysis to determine the effects that market risk exposures may have on the fair values of our forward foreign currency exchange and cross-currency swap contracts. In doing so, we assess the risk of loss in the fair values of these contracts that would result from hypothetical changes in foreign currency exchange rates. This analysis assumes a like movement by the foreign currencies in our hedge portfolio against the U.S. Dollar. As of April 2, 2022, a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the U.S. Dollar against the foreign currencies under contract would result in a net increase or decrease, respectively, in the fair value of our derivative portfolio of approximately $113 million. This hypothetical net change in fair value should ultimately be largely offset by the net change in the related underlying hedged items. Interest Rate Risk Management Sensitivity As of April 2, 2022, we had no variable-rate debt outstanding. As such, our exposure to changes in interest rates primarily relates to changes in the fair values of our fixed-rate Senior Notes. As of April 2, 2022, the aggregate fair values of our Senior Notes were $1.629 billion. A 25-basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would decrease or increase, respectively, the aggregate fair values of our Senior Notes by approximately $16.5 million based on certain simplifying assumptions, including an immediate across-the-board increase or decrease in the level of interest rates with no other subsequent changes for the remainder of the period. Such potential increases or decreases in the fair value of our debt would only be realized if we were to retire all or a portion of the debt prior to its maturity. Investment Risk Management As of April 2, 2022, we had cash and cash equivalents on-hand of $1.864 billion, consisting of deposits in interest bearing accounts, investments in money market deposit accounts, and investments in time deposits with original maturities of 90 days or less. Our other significant investments included $734.6 million of short-term investments, consisting of investments in time deposits with original maturities greater than 90 days. We actively monitor our exposure to changes in the fair value of our global investment portfolio in accordance with our established policies and procedures, which include monitoring both general and issuer-specific economic conditions, as discussed in Note 3 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Our investment objectives include capital preservation, maintaining adequate liquidity, diversification to minimize liquidity and credit risk, and achievement of maximum returns within the guidelines set forth in our investment policy. See Note 13 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further detail of the composition of our investment portfolio as of April 2, 2022. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES An accounting policy is considered to be critical if it is important to our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows, and requires significant judgment and estimates on the part of management in its application. Our estimates are often based on complex judgments, assessments of probability, and assumptions that management believes to be reasonable, but that are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. It is also possible that other professionals, applying reasonable judgment to the same set of facts and circumstances, could develop and support a range of alternative estimated amounts. We believe that the following list represents our critical accounting policies. For a discussion of all of our significant accounting policies, including our critical accounting policies, see Note 3 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Sales Reserves and Uncollectible Accounts A significant area of judgment affecting reported revenue involves estimating sales reserves, which represent the portion of gross revenues not expected to be realized. In particular, gross revenue related to our wholesale business is reduced by estimates of returns, discounts, end-of-season markdowns, operational chargebacks, and certain cooperative advertising allowances. Gross revenue related to our retail business, including digital commerce sales, is also reduced by an estimate of returns. In developing estimates of returns, discounts, end-of-season markdowns, operational chargebacks, and cooperative advertising allowances, we analyze historical trends, actual and forecasted seasonal results, current economic and market conditions, retailer performance, and, in certain cases, contractual terms. Estimates for operational chargebacks are based on actual customer notifications of order fulfillment discrepancies and historical trends. We review and refine these estimates on a quarterly basis. Our historical estimates of these amounts have not differed materially from actual results. However, unforeseen adverse future economic and market conditions, such as those resulting from widespread pandemic diseases and/or other catastrophic events, could result in our actual results differing materially from our estimates. A hypothetical 1% increase in our reserves for returns, discounts, end-of-season markdowns, operational chargebacks, and certain cooperative advertising allowances as of April 2, 2022 would have reduced our Fiscal 2022 net revenues by approximately $2 million. Similarly, we evaluate our accounts receivable balances to develop expectations regarding the extent to which they will ultimately be collected. Significant judgment and estimation are involved in this evaluation, including a receivables aging analysis which shows, by aged category, the percentage of receivables that has historically gone uncollected, an analysis of specific risks on a customer-by-customer basis for larger accounts (including consideration of their financial condition and ability to withstand potential prolonged periods of adverse economic conditions), and an evaluation of current and forecasted economic and market conditions over the respective asset's contractual life. Based on this information, we record an allowance for estimated amounts that we ultimately expect not to collect due to credit. Although we believe that we have adequately provided for these risks as part of our allowance for doubtful accounts, a severe and prolonged adverse impact on our major customers' business and operations beyond those forecasted could have a corresponding material adverse effect on our net revenues, cash flows, and/or financial condition. A hypothetical 1% increase in the level of our allowance for doubtful accounts as of April 2, 2022 would have increased our Fiscal 2022 SG&A expenses by less than $1 million. See "Accounts Receivable" in Note 3 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for an analysis of the activity in our sales reserves and allowance for doubtful accounts for each of the three fiscal years presented. Inventories We hold retail inventory that is sold in our own stores and digital commerce sites directly to consumers. We also hold inventory that is sold through wholesale distribution channels to major department stores and specialty retail stores. Substantially all of our inventories are comprised of finished goods, which are stated at the lower of cost or estimated realizable value, with cost determined on a weighted-average cost basis. The estimated net realizable value of inventory is determined based on an analysis of historical sales trends of our individual product lines, the impact of market trends and economic conditions (including those resulting from pandemic diseases and other catastrophic events), and a forecast of future demand, giving consideration to the value of current orders in-house for future sales of inventory, as well as plans to sell inventory through our factory stores, among other liquidation channels. Actual results may differ from estimates due to the quantity, quality, and mix of products in inventory, consumer and retailer preferences, and economic and market conditions. Reserves for inventory shrinkage, representing the risk of physical loss of inventory, are estimated based on historical experience and are adjusted based upon physical inventory counts. Our historical estimates of these costs and the related provisions have not differed materially from actual results. However, unforeseen adverse future economic and market conditions could result in our actual results differing materially from our estimates. A hypothetical 1% increase in the level of our inventory reserves as of April 2, 2022 would have decreased our Fiscal 2022 gross profit by approximately $2 million. Impairment of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and certain other intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives are not amortized. Rather, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are assessed for impairment at least annually. Finite-lived intangible assets are amortized over their respective estimated useful lives and, along with other long-lived assets, are evaluated for impairment periodically whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying values may not be fully recoverable. We generally perform our annual goodwill impairment assessment using a qualitative approach to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its respective carrying value. However, in order to reassess the fair values of our reporting units, we periodically perform a quantitative impairment analysis in lieu of using the qualitative approach. Performance of the qualitative goodwill impairment assessment requires judgment in identifying and considering the significance of relevant key factors, events, and circumstances that affect the fair values of our reporting units. This requires consideration and assessment of external factors such as macroeconomic, industry, and market conditions, as well as entity-specific factors, such as our actual and planned financial performance. We also give consideration to the difference between each reporting unit's fair value and carrying value as of the most recent date that a fair value measurement was performed. If the results of the qualitative assessment conclude that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, additional quantitative impairment testing is performed. The quantitative goodwill impairment test involves comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying value, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, the reporting unit's goodwill is considered not to be impaired. However, if the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recorded in an amount equal to that excess. Any impairment charge recognized is limited to the amount of the respective reporting unit's allocated goodwill. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit under the quantitative goodwill impairment test requires judgment and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including an assessment of external factors such as macroeconomic, industry, and market conditions, as well as entity-specific factors, such as actual and planned financial performance. Similarly, estimates and assumptions are used when determining the fair values of other indefinite-lived intangible assets. These estimates and assumptions could have a significant impact on whether or not an impairment charge is recognized and the magnitude of any such charge. To assist management in the process of determining any potential goodwill impairment, we may review and consider appraisals from accredited independent valuation firms. Estimates of fair value are primarily determined using discounted cash flows, market comparisons, and recent transactions. These approaches involve significant estimates and assumptions, including projected future cash flows (including timing), discount rates reflecting the risks inherent in those future cash flows, perpetual growth rates, and selection of appropriate market comparable metrics and transactions. We performed our annual goodwill impairment assessment as of the beginning of the second quarter of Fiscal 2022 using the qualitative approach discussed above. In performing the assessment, we considered the results of our most recent quantitative goodwill impairment test, which was performed as of the end of Fiscal 2020 and incorporated assumptions related to COVID-19 business disruptions, the results of which indicated that the fair values of our reporting units significantly exceeded their respective carrying values. Based on the results of the qualitative impairment assessment performed, we concluded that it is more likely than not that the fair values of our reporting units significantly exceeded their respective carrying values and there were no reporting units at risk of impairment. No goodwill impairment charges were recorded during any of the fiscal years presented. See Note 12 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion. In evaluating finite-lived intangible assets for recoverability, we use our best estimate of future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition where probable. If such estimated future undiscounted net cash flows attributable to the asset are less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recognized to the extent that such asset's carrying value exceeds its fair value, as estimated considering external market participant assumptions. It is possible that our conclusions regarding impairment or recoverability of goodwill or other intangible assets could change in future periods if, for example, (i) our businesses do not perform as projected, (ii) overall economic conditions in future years vary from current assumptions, (iii) business conditions or strategies change from our current assumptions, or (iv) the identification of our reporting units change, among other factors. Such changes could result in a future impairment charge of goodwill or other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. Impairment of Other Long-Lived Assets Property and equipment and lease-related right-of-use ("ROU") assets, along with other long-lived assets, are evaluated for impairment periodically whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their related carrying values may not be fully recoverable. In evaluating long-lived assets for recoverability, we use our best estimate of future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset (including any potential sublease income for lease-related ROU assets) and its eventual disposition, where applicable. If such estimated future undiscounted net cash flows attributable to the asset are less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recognized to the extent that such asset's carrying value exceeds its fair value, as estimated considering external market participant assumptions and discounted cash flows, including those based on estimated market rents for lease-related ROU assets. Assets to be disposed of and for which there is a committed plan of disposal (commonly referred to as assets held-for-sale) are reported at the lower of carrying value or fair value, less costs to sell. In determining future cash flows, we take various factors into account, including changes in merchandising strategy, the emphasis on retail store cost controls, the effects of macroeconomic trends such as consumer spending, and the impacts of more experienced retail store managers and increased local advertising. Since the determination of future cash flows is an estimate of future performance, future impairments may arise in the event that future cash flows do not meet expectations. For example, unforeseen adverse future economic and market conditions could negatively impact consumer behavior, spending levels, and/or shopping preferences and result in actual results differing from our estimates. Additionally, we may review and consider appraisals from accredited independent valuation firms to determine the fair value of long-lived assets, where applicable. During Fiscal 2022, Fiscal 2021, and Fiscal 2020, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $21.3 million, $96.0 million, and $38.7 million, respectively, to write-down the carrying values of certain long-lived assets based upon their assumed fair values.  See Note 8 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion. Income Taxes In determining our income tax provision for financial reporting purposes, we establish a reserve for uncertain tax positions. If we believe that a tax position is more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, based solely on the technical merits of the position, we recognize the tax benefit. We measure the tax benefit by determining the largest amount that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement, presuming that the tax position is examined by the appropriate taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. These assessments can be complex and require significant judgment, and we often obtain assistance from external advisors. To the extent that our estimates change or the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the income tax provision in the period in which such determinations are made. If the initial assessment of a position fails to result in the recognition of a tax benefit, we will recognize the tax benefit if (i) there are changes in tax law or analogous case law that sufficiently raise the likelihood of prevailing on the technical merits of the position to more likely than not; (ii) the statute of limitations expires; or (iii) there is a completion of an audit resulting in a settlement of that tax year with the appropriate agency. Deferred income taxes reflect the tax effect of certain net operating losses, capital losses, general business credit carryforwards, and the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial statement and income tax purposes, as determined under enacted tax laws and rates. Valuation allowances are established when management determines that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. Tax valuation allowances are analyzed periodically by assessing the adequacy of future expected taxable income, which typically involves the use of significant estimates. Such allowances are adjusted as events occur, or circumstances change, that warrant adjustments to those balances. See Note 10 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion of income taxes. Contingencies We are periodically exposed to various contingencies in the ordinary course of conducting our business, including potential losses relating to certain litigation, alleged information system security breaches, contractual disputes, employee relation matters, various tax or other governmental audits, and trademark and intellectual property matters and disputes. We record a liability for such contingencies to the extent that we conclude that it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of such loss is reasonably estimable. In addition, if it is considered reasonably possible that an unfavorable settlement of a contingency could exceed any established liability, we disclose the estimated impact on our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations, if practicable. Management considers many factors in making these assessments. As the ultimate resolution of contingencies is inherently unpredictable, these assessments can involve a series of complex judgments about future events including, but not limited to, court rulings, negotiations between affected parties, and governmental actions. As a result, the accounting for loss contingencies relies heavily on management's judgment in developing the related estimates and assumptions. Stock-Based Compensation We expense all stock-based compensation awarded to employees and non-employee directors based on the grant date fair value of the awards over the requisite service period, adjusted for forfeitures which are estimated based on an analysis of historical experience and expected future trends. Restricted Stock Units ("RSUs") We grant service-based RSUs to certain of our senior executives and other employees, as well as to our non-employee directors. In addition, we grant RSUs with performance-based and market-based vesting conditions to such senior executives and other key employees. The fair values of our service-based RSU and performance-based RSU awards are measured based on the fair value of our Class A common stock on the date of grant, adjusted to reflect the absence of dividends for any awards for which dividend equivalent amounts do not accrue while outstanding and unvested. Related compensation expense for performance-based RSUs is recognized over the employees' requisite service period, to the extent that our attainment of performance goals (upon which vesting is dependent) is deemed probable, and involves judgment as to expectations surrounding our achievement of certain defined operating performance metrics. The fair value of our market-based RSU awards, for which vesting is dependent upon total shareholder return ("TSR") of our Class A common stock over a three-year performance period relative to that of a pre-established peer group, is measured on the grant date based on estimated projections of our relative TSR over the performance period. These estimates are made using a Monte Carlo simulation, which models multiple stock price paths of our Class A common stock and that of the peer group to evaluate and determine our ultimate expected relative TSR performance ranking. Related compensation expense, net of estimated forfeitures, is recorded regardless of whether, and the extent to which, the market condition is ultimately satisfied. See Note 18 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion. Stock Options Stock options have been granted to employees and non-employee directors with exercise prices equal to the fair market value of our Class A common stock on the date of grant. We use the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to estimate the grant date fair value of stock options, which requires the use of both subjective and objective assumptions. Certain key assumptions involve estimating future uncertain events. The key factors influencing the estimation process include the expected term of the option, expected volatility of our stock price, our expected dividend yield, and the risk-free interest rate, among others. Generally, once stock option values are determined, accounting practices do not permit them to be changed, even if the estimates used are different from actual results. No stock options were granted during any of the fiscal years presented. See Note 18 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion. Sensitivity The assumptions used in calculating the grant date fair values of our stock-based compensation awards represent our best estimates. In addition, projecting the achievement level of certain performance-based awards, as well as estimating the number of awards expected to be forfeited, requires judgment. If actual results or forfeitures differ significantly from our estimates and assumptions, or if assumptions used to estimate the grant date fair value of future stock-based award grants are significantly changed, stock-based compensation expense and, therefore, our results of operations could be materially impacted. A hypothetical 10% change in our Fiscal 2022 stock-based compensation expense would have affected our net income by approximately $7 million. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS See Note 4 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a description of certain recently issued accounting standards which have impacted our consolidated financial statements or may impact our consolidated financial statements in future reporting periods.