********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere, and the other information contained, in this Report and in our other filings with the SEC, including our subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs with material adverse effects on us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock will likely decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Summary of Risk Factors The following is a summary of the risks that are more fully described in the following section below: Risks Related to Our Business and Industry  Our inability to compete successfully in our markets may harm our business.  Consolidation in the health care industry could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.  Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic.  We are subject to various risks relating to international activities that could affect our overall profitability.  Our products are the subject of clinical trials conducted by us, our competitors, or other third parties, the results of which may be unfavorable, or perceived as unfavorable, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  We are subject to potential product liability claims that may exceed the scope and amount of our insurance coverage, which would expose us to liability for uninsured claims.  Our intellectual property may not protect our products, and/or our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of third-parties.  If we fail to attract, develop and retain key employees our business may suffer.  Our leverage and debt service obligations could adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Manufacturing, IT Systems, Commercial Operations and Plans for Future Growth  Disruptions in the supply of components from our suppliers could result in a significant reduction in sales and profitability.  We are increasingly dependent on information technology systems and infrastructure.  Actual or attempted breaches of security, unauthorized disclosure of information, denial of service attacks or the perception that personal and/or other sensitive or confidential information in our possession is not secure, could result in a material loss of business, substantial legal liability or significant harm to our reputation.  We may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits from acquisitions, which could adversely affect our operating results.  Our business depends on our ability to market effectively to dealers of home healthcare products and sleep clinics.  Our SaaS business depends substantially on customers entering into, renewing, upgrading and expanding their agreements for cloud services, term licenses, and maintenance and support agreements with us. Any decline in our customer renewals, upgrades or expansions could adversely affect our future operating results.  If our SaaS products fail to perform properly or if we fail to develop enhancements, we could lose customers, become subject to service performance or warranty claims and our market share could decline.  If there are interruptions or performance problems associated with our technology or infrastructure, our existing SaaS customers may experience service outages, and our new customers may experience delays in the deployment of our platforms.  If we are unable to support our continued growth, our business could suffer.  If a natural or man-made disaster strikes our manufacturing facilities, we will be unable to manufacture our products for a substantial amount of time and our sales and profitability will decline. - 21 - RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Risks Related to Non-Compliance with Laws, Regulations and Healthcare Industry Shifts  Healthcare reform may have a material adverse effect on our industry and our results of operations.  Government and private insurance plans may not adequately reimburse our customers for our products, which could result in reductions in sales or selling prices for our products.  Failure to comply with anti-kickback and fraud regulations could result in substantial penalties and changes in our business operations.  Our use and disclosure of individually identifiable information, including health information, is subject to federal, state and foreign privacy and security regulations, and our failure to comply with those regulations or to adequately secure the information we hold could result in significant liability or reputational harm.  Our business activities are subject to extensive regulation, and any failure to comply could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.  Product sales, introductions or modifications may be delayed or canceled as a result of FDA regulations or similar foreign regulations, which could cause our sales and profits to decline.  We are subject to substantial regulation related to quality standards applicable to our manufacturing and quality processes. Our failure to comply with these standards could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.  Disruptions at the FDA and other government agencies caused by funding shortages or global health concerns could hinder their ability to hire, retain or deploy key leadership and other personnel, or otherwise prevent new or modified products from being developed, cleared or approved or commercialized in a timely manner or at all, which could negatively impact our business.  Off-label marketing of our products could result in substantial penalties.  Laws regulating consumer contacts could adversely affect our business operations or create liabilities.  Tax laws, regulations, and enforcement practices are evolving and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position.  We are subject to tax audits by various tax authorities in many jurisdictions. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock  Our results of operations may be materially affected by global economic conditions generally, including conditions in the financial markets.  Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuation for a variety of reasons.  Delaware law and provisions in our charter and could make it difficult for another company to acquire us. ‎ - 22 - RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our inability to compete successfully in our markets may harm our business. The markets for our products, which encompass Sleep and Respiratory Care products and SaaS offerings, are highly competitive and are characterized by frequent product improvements and evolving technology. Our ability to compete successfully depends, in part, on our ability to develop, manufacture and market innovative new products. For our Sleep and Respiratory Care business, the development of innovative new products by our competitors or the discovery of alternative treatments or potential cures for the conditions that our products treat could make our products noncompetitive or obsolete. Current competitors, new entrants, academics, and others are trying to develop new devices, alternative treatments or cures, and pharmaceutical solutions to the conditions our products treat. For SaaS, the market for business management software is highly competitive, rapidly evolving, subject to changing technology, with low barriers to entry, shifting customer needs and frequent introductions of new products and services. Many prospective customers have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to implement and integrate their current business management software into their operations and, therefore, may be reluctant or unwilling to change from their current solution or provider to one of our platforms or products. Additionally, some of our competitors have greater financial, research and development, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. The past several years have seen a trend towards consolidation in the healthcare industry and in the markets for our products. Industry consolidation could result in greater competition if our competitors combine their resources, if our competitors are acquired by other companies with greater resources than ours, or if our competitors become affiliated with customers of ours. This competition could increase pressure on us to reduce the selling prices of our products or could cause us to increase our spending on research and development and sales and marketing. If we are unable to develop innovative new products, maintain competitive pricing, and offer products that consumers perceive to be as good as those of our competitors, our sales and gross margins could decrease which would harm our business. Consolidation in the health care industry could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Many home health care dealers and out-of-hospital health providers are consolidating, which may result in greater concentration of purchasing power. As the health care industry consolidates, competition to provide goods and services to industry participants may become more intense. These industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price concessions or reductions for medical devices and components produced by us. If we are forced to reduce our prices because of consolidation in the health care industry, our revenues may decrease and our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flows may suffer. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. We are subject to risks related to the global pandemic associated with COVID-19, which have had an adverse impact on certain aspects of our business. Specifically, diagnostic pathways for sleep apnea treatment, including physician practices, HME suppliers and sleep clinics, have been impacted and, in some instances, been required , to temporarily close due to governments’ “ shelter-in-place ” orders , quarantines or similar orders or restrictions enacted to control the spread of COVID-19 . In some countries, new patients are prescribed sleep apnea treatment through hospitals that are directing their resources to critical care, including COVID-19 treatment. Although certain governments have begun to reduce or remove COVID-19 restrictions to varying degrees, we cannot predict the impact that will have on diagnostic and prescription pathways and demand for our products designed to treat sleep apnea. Furthermore, we cannot predict the extent, speed and effectiveness of worldwide containment and vaccination efforts and the impact of these factors will have on our employees, customers, vendors and patients. While we have experienced increased demand for our respiratory care products due to the nature of COVID-19, we do not expect the same level of demand to continue as vaccination programs expand and infection rates decline globally. Decreases in future demand may result in excess inventory, which we may be unable to sell. Furthermore, due to governments’ varying restrictions on international and domestic travel, access to labor for our manufacturing facilities could be adversely impacted. Our SaaS business has also been affected by COVID-19 and measures taken to control the spread of COVID-19. Some of our existing and potential SaaS customers are HME distributors and have been impacted by the same temporary business closures noted above. We also have existing and potential SaaS customers that operate care facilities and are either receiving and treating patients infected with COVID-19 or have implemented significant measures to safeguard their facilities against a potential COVID-19 outbreak. Given these challenging business conditions, businesses may be deterred from adopting new or changing SaaS platforms, which may adversely impact our ability to engage new customers for our SaaS businesses, or expand the services used by existing customers. - 23 - RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES We currently utilize third parties to, among other things, manufacture components and materials for our devices. Disruptions relating to the COVID-19 pandemic, including current shelter-in-place orders, could prevent employees, suppliers, distributors, and others from accessing manufacturing facilities and from transporting our products or the components required to manufacture our products. Further, worldwide supply chain disruption relating to the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in component shortages that have and may continue to impact our ability to manufacture our devices. If either we or any third-party parties in the supply chain for materials used in the production of our devices continue to be adversely impacted by the restrictions resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, our supply chain may be disrupted, limiting our ability to manufacture our devices. These disruptions may, among other things, impact our ability to produce and supply products in quantities necessary to satisfy customer demand, which could negatively impact our results of operations . Health regulatory agencies globally may also experience disruptions in their operations as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Any delay or de-prioritization of our product development activities or delay in regulatory review resulting from such disruptions could materially affect our results of operations. We are also competing with participants in other industries, like the automobile industry for example, for essential inputs for our products, which may result in higher prices or scarcity of supply. In addition to existing travel restrictions, countries may continue to close borders, impose prolonged quarantines, and restrict travel, which have disrupted and may continue to disrupt our ability to move our product by air and sea. While we expect COVID-19 to negatively impact certain aspects of our business, given the rapid and evolving nature of the virus and the uncertainty about its impact on society and the global economy, we cannot predict the extent to which it will affect our global operations. We are subject to various risks relating to international activities that could affect our overall profitability. We manufacture substantially all of our products outside the United States and sell a significant portion of our products in non-U.S. markets. Sales in combined Europe, Asia and other markets accounted for approximately 39% and 38% of our net revenues in the years ended June 30, 2021 and June 30, 2020 respectively. Our sales and operations outside of the U.S. are subject to several difficulties and risks that are separate and distinct from those we face in the U.S., including:  fluctuations in currency exchange rates;  tariffs and other trade barriers;  compliance with foreign medical device manufacturing regulations;  difficulty in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems;  reduction in third-party payor reimbursement for our products;  inability to obtain import licenses;  the impact of public health epidemics/pandemics on the global economy, such as COVID-19 that has spread globally;  changes in trade policies and in U.S. and foreign tax policies;  possible changes in export or import restrictions; and  the modification or introduction of other governmental policies with potentially adverse effects. Any of the above factors may have a material adverse effect on our ability to increase or maintain our non-U.S. sales. Our products are the subject of clinical trials conducted by us, our competitors, or other third parties, the results of which may be unfavorable, or perceived as unfavorable, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As a part of the regulatory process to obtain marketing clearance for new products and new indications for existing products, or for other reasons, we conduct and participate in numerous clinical trials with a variety of study designs, patient populations, and trial endpoints. We, our competitors, or other third parties may also conduct clinical trials involving our commercially marketed products.  The results of clinical trials may be unfavorable or inconsistent with previous findings, or could identify safety signals associated with our products. Current or future clinical trials may not meet primary endpoints, may reveal disadvantages of our products and solutions for various markets we address, or could generate unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data. Clinical data, or the market’s or regulatory bodies’ perception of the clinical data, may adversely impact our ability to obtain product clearances or approvals, and our position in, and share of, the markets in which we participate.  Moreover, if these clinical trials identify serious safety issues associated with our marketed products, potentially adverse consequences could result, including that regulatory authorities could withdraw clearances or approvals of our products, we could be required to halt the marketing and sales of our products or recall our products, we could be required to update our product labeling with additional warnings, we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients, and our reputation may suffer.  Any of these could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. - 24 - RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES We are subject to potential product liability claims that may exceed the scope and amount of our insurance coverage, which would expose us to liability for uninsured claims. We are subject to potential product liability claims as a result of the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in the increase of our product liability insurance rates. In addition, we would have to pay any amount awarded by a court in excess of our policy limits. Our insurance policies have various exclusions, and thus we may be subject to a product liability claim for which we have no insurance coverage, in which case, we may have to pay the entire amount of any award. We cannot assure you that our insurance coverage will be adequate or that all claims brought against us will be covered by our insurance and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain insurance in the future on terms acceptable to us or at all. A successful product liability claim brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage, if any, may require us to pay substantial amounts, which could harm our business. We may also be affected by the product recalls and other risks associated with the products of our competitors if customers and patients are uncertain if issues affecting our competitors may also affect us. Our intellectual property may not protect our products, and/or our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of third-parties. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets and non-disclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain and maintain U.S. and foreign patent protection for our products, their uses and our processes to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third-parties. We have a number of pending patent applications, and we do not know whether any patents will issue from any of these applications. We do not know whether any of the claims in our issued patents or pending applications will provide us with any significant protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially valuable. Legal standards regarding the validity of patents and the proper scope of their claims are still evolving, and there is no consistent law or policy regarding the valid breadth of claims. Additionally, there may be third-party patents, patent applications and other intellectual property relevant to our products and technology which are not known to us and that block or compete with our products. We face the risks that:  third-parties will infringe our intellectual property rights;  our non-disclosure agreements will be breached;  we will not have adequate remedies for infringement;  our trade secrets will become known to or independently developed by our competitors;  third-parties will be issued patents that may prevent the sale of our products or require us to license and pay fees or royalties in order for us to be able to market some of our products; or  third-parties may assert patents and other intellectual property rights against our suppliers, causing interruption in supply of components or other essential inputs. Litigation may be necessary to enforce patents issued to us, to protect our proprietary rights, or to defend third-party claims that we have infringed on proprietary rights of others. If the outcome of any litigation or proceeding brought against us were adverse, we could be subject to significant liabilities to third-parties, could be required to obtain licenses from third-parties, could be forced to design around the patents at issue or could be required to cease sales of the affected products. A license may not be available at all or on commercially viable terms, and we may not be able to redesign our products to avoid infringement. Additionally, the laws regarding the enforceability of patents vary from country to country, and we cannot assure you that any patent issues we face will be uniformly resolved, or that local laws will provide us with consistent rights and benefits. If we fail to attract, develop and retain key employees our business may suffer. Our ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract and retain key employees, including people in senior management, sales, marketing, technology, and research and development positions. Competition for top talent in the healthcare, technology and SaaS industries can be intense. Our ability to recruit and retain such talent will depend on a number of factors, including hiring practices of our competitors, compensation and benefits, work location, work environment and industry economic conditions. If we cannot effectively recruit, develop and retain qualified employees to drive our strategic goals, our business could suffer. Our leverage and debt service obligations could adversely affect our business. As of June 30, 2021, our total consolidated debt was $0.7 billion and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future.  Our indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including:  making it more difficult to satisfy our financial obligations;  increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, regulatory and industry conditions;  limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; - 25 - RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  limiting our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditure, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and  exposing us to greater interest rate risk. Our debt service obligations will require us to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest and principal in indebtedness, which could impede our growth.  Our ability to make payments on, and to refinance, our indebtedness, and to fund capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future.  This is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Risks Related to Manufacturing, IT Systems, Commercial Operations and Plans for Future Growth Disruptions in the supply of components from our suppliers could result in a significant reduction in sales and profitability. We purchase configured components for our devices from various suppliers, including some who are single-source suppliers for us. Disruptions to our suppliers, including disruptions in connection with COVID-19, may limit our ability to manufacture our devices in a timely or cost-effective manner, which could result in a significant reduction in sales and profitability. We cannot assure you that a replacement supplier would be able to configure its components for our devices on a timely basis or, in the alternative, that we would be able to reconfigure our devices to integrate the replacement part. A reduction or halt in supply while a replacement supplier reconfigures its components, or while we reconfigure our devices for the replacement part, would limit our ability to manufacture our devices in a timely or cost-effective manner, which could result in a significant reduction in sales and profitability. We cannot assure you that our inventories would be adequate to meet our production needs during any prolonged interruption of supply. In particular, a global semiconductor supply shortage is having wide-ranging effects across multiple industries, and it has impacted suppliers that incorporate semiconductors into the parts they supply to us. The semiconductor supply shortage has had, and will continue to have, an adverse impact on lead times and device production. Extended lead times and decreased availability of key components may also cause an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Delays in our ability to produce and deliver our devices could cause our customers to purchase alternative products from our competitors. If component shortages continue, we will continue to experience supply interruption and/or may incur significant price increases from these suppliers. Additionally, increases in product demand, including in response to a recent product recall by one of our competitors, Philips, have resulted and could continue to result in shipment delays, higher costs for materials and components, and increased expenditures for freight and other expenses, which have and could continue to negatively impact our profit margins. Although historically we have generally been able to secure additional supply or take other actions to mitigate supply disruptions, as the impact of the global shortages in key components, including semiconductors, impacts many industries worldwide, and particularly our supply chain, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, in order to secure such necessary components, we may be obligated to purchase them at prices that are higher than those available in the current market. If supply constraints continue, our ability to meet demand and our corresponding ability to sell affected products may be materially reduced. We may have to allocate or prioritize orders for our devices, and our failure to timely deliver desirable products to meet demand may harm relationships with our customers. We are increasingly dependent on information technology systems and infrastructure. Our technology systems are potentially vulnerable to breakdown or other interruption by fire, power loss, system malfunction, unauthorized access and other events. Likewise, data privacy breaches by employees and others with both permitted and unauthorized access to our systems may pose a risk that sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public, or may be permanently lost. While we have invested heavily in the protection of data and information technology and in related training, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent significant breakdowns, breaches in our systems or other cyber incidents that could have a material adverse effect upon the reputation, business, operations or financial condition of the company. In addition, significant implementation issues may arise as we continue to consolidate and outsource certain computer operations and application support activities. - 26 - RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Actual or attempted breaches of security, unauthorized disclosure of information, denial of service attacks or the perception that personal and/or other sensitive or confidential information in our possession is not secure, could result in a material loss of business, substantial legal liability or significant harm to our reputation. We receive, collect, process, use and store a large amount of information from our clients, our patients and our own employees, including personally identifiable, protected health and other sensitive and confidential information. This data is often accessed by us through transmissions over public and private networks, including the Internet. The secure transmission of such information over the Internet and other mechanisms is essential to maintain confidence in our information technology systems. We have implemented security measures, technical controls and contractual precautions designed to identify, detect and prevent unauthorized access, alteration, use or disclosure of our clients’, patients’ and employees’ data. However, the techniques used in these attacks change frequently and may be difficult to detect for periods of time and we may face difficulties in anticipating and implementing adequate preventative measures. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we may face increased cybersecurity risks due to our reliance on internet technology and the number of our employees who are working remotely, which may create additional opportunities for cybercriminals to exploit vulnerabilities. Beyond external criminal activity, systems that access or control access to our services and databases may be compromised as a result of human error, fraud or malice on the part of employees or third parties, or may result from accidental technological failure. Because the techniques used to circumvent security systems can be highly sophisticated and change frequently, often are not recognized until launched against a target and may originate from less regulated and remote areas around the world, we may be unable to proactively address all possible techniques or implement adequate preventive measures for all situations. If someone is able to circumvent or breach our security systems, they could steal any information located therein or cause serious and potentially long lasting disruption to our operations. Security breaches or attempts thereof could also damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of monetary loss and/or litigation, fines and sanctions. We also face risks associated with security breaches affecting third parties that conduct business with us or our clients and others who interact with our data. While we maintain insurance that covers certain security and privacy breaches, we may not carry appropriate insurance or maintain sufficient coverage to compensate for all potential liability. We are subject to diverse laws and regulations relating to data privacy and security, including HIPAA and European data privacy laws. Complying with these numerous and complex regulations is expensive and difficult, and failure to comply with these regulations could result in regulatory scrutiny, fines, civil liability or damage to our reputation. In addition, any security breach or attempt thereof could result in liability for stolen assets or information, additional costs associated with repairing any system damage, incentives offered to clients or other business partners to maintain business relationships after a breach, and implementation of measures to prevent future breaches, including organizational changes, deployment of additional personnel and protection technologies, employee training and engagement of third-party experts and consultants. Additionally, the costs incurred to remediate any data security or privacy incident could be substantial. We cannot assure you that any of our third-party service providers with access to our, or our clients, patients and/or employees’ personally identifiable and other sensitive or confidential information will maintain appropriate policies and practices regarding data privacy and security in compliance with all applicable laws or that they will not experience data security breaches or attempts thereof, which could have a corresponding effect on our business. We may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits from acquisitions, which could adversely affect our operating results. Part of our growth strategy includes acquiring businesses consistent with our commitment to innovation in developing products for the diagnosis and treatment of sleep apnea and respiratory care as well as our SaaS business. For example, we acquired MatrixCare in November 2018 and Propeller Health in January 2019. The success of our acquisitions will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully integrate the business and operations of the acquired companies. Additionally, our management may have their attention diverted while trying to integrate these businesses. If we are not able to successfully integrate the operations, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. Moreover, we have recorded intangible assets, including goodwill, in connection with our acquisitions. At least on an annual basis, we must evaluate whether facts and circumstances indicate any impairment of the intangible assets’ values. The qualitative and quantitative analysis used to test goodwill is dependent upon various considerations and assumptions, including macroeconomic conditions, industry and market characteristics, projections of acquired companies’ future revenue, discount rates, and expectations of future cash flows. While we have made such assumptions in good faith and believe them to be reasonable, the assumptions may turn out to be materially inaccurate, including for reasons beyond our control. Changes in such assumptions may cause a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of intangible assets may be impaired. Consequently, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in the financial statements during the period in which any impairment of intangible assets is determined. - 27 - RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Our business depends on our ability to market effectively to dealers of home healthcare products and sleep clinics. We market our products primarily to home healthcare dealers and to sleep clinics that diagnose OSA and other sleep disorders, as well as to non-sleep specialist physician practices that diagnose and treat sleep disorders. We believe that these groups play a significant role in determining which brand of product a patient will use. The success of our business depends on our ability to market effectively to these groups to ensure that our products are properly marketed and sold by these third-parties. We have limited resources to market to the sleep clinics, home healthcare dealer branch locations and to the non-sleep specialists, most of whom use, sell or recommend several brands of products. In addition, home healthcare dealers have experienced price pressures as government and third-party reimbursement has declined for home healthcare products, and home healthcare dealers are requiring price discounts and longer periods of time to pay for products purchased from us. We cannot assure you that physicians will continue to prescribe our products, or that home healthcare dealers or patients will not substitute competing products when a prescription specifying our products has been written. We have expanded our marketing activities in some markets to target the population with a predisposition to sleep-disordered breathing as well as primary care physicians and various medical specialists. We cannot assure you that these marketing efforts will be successful in increasing awareness or sales of our products. Our SaaS business depends substantially on customers entering into, renewing, upgrading and expanding their agreements for cloud services, term licenses, and maintenance and support agreements with us. Any decline in our customer renewals, upgrades or expansions could adversely affect our future operating results. We typically enter into term-based agreements for our licensed on-premises offerings, cloud services, and maintenance and support services, which customers have discretion to renew or terminate at the end of the initial term. In order for us to improve our operating results, it is important that new customers enter into renewable agreements, and our existing customers renew, upgrade and expand their term-based agreements when the initial contract term expires. Our customers have no obligation to renew, upgrade or expand their agreements with us after the terms have expired. Our customers’ renewal, upgrade and expansion rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our offerings, our pricing, the effects of general economic conditions, competitive offerings or alterations or reductions in our customers’ spending levels. If our customers do not renew, upgrade or expand their agreements with us or renew on terms less favorable to us, our revenues may decline. If our SaaS products fail to perform properly or if we fail to develop enhancements, we could lose customers, become subject to service performance or warranty claims and our market share could decline. Our SaaS operations are dependent upon our ability to prevent system interruptions and, as we continue to grow, we will need to devote additional resources to improving our infrastructure in order to maintain the performance of our products and solutions. The applications underlying our SaaS products are inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors, which may cause disruptions in availability or other performance problems. We have from time to time found defects in our products and may discover additional defects in the future that could result in data unavailability, unauthorized access to, loss, corruption or other harm to our customers’ data. While we implement bug fixes and upgrades as part of our regularly scheduled system maintenance, we may not be able to detect and correct defects or errors before implementing our products and solutions. Consequently, we or our customers may discover defects or errors after our products and solutions have been deployed. If we fail to perform timely maintenance, or if customers are otherwise dissatisfied with the frequency and/or duration of our maintenance services and related system outages, our existing customers could elect not to renew their contracts, delay or withhold payment, or potential customers may not adopt our products and solutions and our brand and reputation could be harmed. In addition, the occurrence of any material defects, errors, disruptions in service or other performance problems with our software could result in warranty or other legal claims against us and diversion of our resources. The costs incurred in addressing and correcting any material defects or errors in our software and expanding our infrastructure and architecture in order to accommodate increased demand for our products and solutions may be substantial and could adversely affect our operating results. If there are interruptions or performance problems associated with our technology or infrastructure, our existing SaaS customers may experience service outages, and our new customers may experience delays in the deployment of our platforms. We depend on services from various third parties as well as our own technical operations infrastructure to distribute our SaaS products via the Internet. If a service provider fails to provide sufficient capacity to support our platform or otherwise experiences service outages, such failure could interrupt our customers’ access to our service, which could adversely affect their perception of our platform's reliability and our revenues. Any disruptions in these services, including as a result of actions outside of our control, would significantly impact the continued performance of our SaaS products. In the future, these services may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any loss of the right to use any of these services could result in decreased functionality of our SaaS products until equivalent technology is either developed by us or, if available from another provider, is identified, obtained and integrated into our infrastructure. - 28 - RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES To meet our business needs, we must maintain sufficient excess capacity in our operations infrastructure to ensure that our SaaS products are accessible. Design and mechanical errors, spikes in usage volume and failure to follow system protocols and procedures could cause our systems to fail, resulting in interruptions in our SaaS products. Any interruptions or delays in our service, whether or not caused by our products, or as a result of third-party error, our own error, natural disasters or security breaches, whether accidental or willful, could harm our relationships with customers and cause our revenue to decrease and/or our expenses to increase. Any of the above circumstances or events may harm our reputation, cause customers to terminate their agreements with us, impair our ability to obtain contract renewals from existing customers, impair our ability to grow our customer base, result in the expenditure of significant financial, technical and engineering resources, subject us to financial penalties and liabilities under our service level agreements, and otherwise harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to support our continued growth, our business could suffer. As we continue to grow, the complexity of our operations increases, placing greater demands on our management. Our ability to manage our growth effectively depends on our ability to implement and improve our financial and management information systems on a timely basis and to effect other changes in our business including the ability to monitor and improve manufacturing systems, information technology, and quality and regulatory compliance systems, among others. Unexpected difficulties during expansion, the failure to attract and retain qualified employees, the failure to successfully replace or upgrade our management information systems, the failure to manage costs or our inability to respond effectively to growth or plan for future expansion could cause our growth to stop. If we fail to manage our growth effectively and efficiently, our costs could increase faster than our revenues and our business results could suffer. If a natural or man-made disaster strikes our manufacturing facilities, we will be unable to manufacture our products for a substantial amount of time and our sales and profitability will decline. Our facilities and the manufacturing equipment we use to produce our products would be costly to replace and could require substantial lead-time to repair or replace. The facilities may be affected by natural or man-made disasters, including COVID-19 that has spread globally, and in the event they were affected by a disaster, we would be forced to rely on third-party manufacturers. Although we believe we possess adequate insurance for the disruption of our business from causalities, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Risks Related to Non-Compliance with Laws, Regulations and Healthcare Industry Shifts Healthcare reform may have a material adverse effect on our industry and our results of operations. In March 2010, the ACA was signed into law in the United States. The ACA made changes that significantly impacted the healthcare industry, including medical device manufacturers . One of the principal purposes of the ACA was to expand health insurance coverage to millions of Americans who were uninsured. The ACA required adults not covered by an employer or government-sponsored insurance plan to maintain health insurance coverage or pay a penalty, a provision commonly referred to as the individual mandate. The ACA also contained a number of provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions. This included new fees or taxes on certain health-related industries, including medical device manufacturers. Beginning in 2013, entities that manufacture, produce or import medical devices were required to pay an excise tax in an amount equal to 2.3% of the price for which such devices are sold in the United States. This excise tax was applicable to our products that are primarily used in hospitals and sleep labs, which includes the ApneaLink, VPAP Tx and certain Respiratory Care products. Through a series of legislative amendments, the tax was suspended beginning in 2016, and permanently repealed effective January 1, 2020. In addition to the competitive bidding changes discussed above, the ACA also included, among other things, directions to develop organizations that are paid under a new payment methodology for voluntary coordination of care by groups of providers, such as physicians and hospitals, and the establishment of a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research. The increased funding and focus on comparative clinical effectiveness research, which compares and evaluates the risks and benefits, clinical outcomes, effectiveness and appropriateness of products, may result in lower reimbursements by payors for our products and decreased profits to us. Other federal legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the ACA was enacted. These changes included an aggregate reduction in Medicare payments to providers of 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on April 1, 2013. The CARES Act, which was signed into law in March 2020 and subsequently amended, suspended the payment reductions from May 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020, and extended the sequester by one additional year, through 2030.  In addition, on January 2, 2013, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, was signed into law, which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. - 29 - RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES The full impact on our business of the ACA and other new laws is uncertain. Nor is it clear whether other legislative changes will be adopted, if any, or how such changes would affect the demand for our products. Future actions by the administration and the U.S. Congress including, but not limited to, repeal or replacement of the ACA could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, all or a portion of the ACA and related subsequent legislation may be modified, repealed or otherwise invalidated through other judicial challenge. On June 17, 2021, the U.S. Supreme Court dismissed the most recent judicial challenge to the ACA brought by several states without specifically ruling on the constitutionality of the ACA. Prior to the Supreme Court’s decision, President Biden issued an executive order to initiate a special enrollment period for purposes of obtaining health insurance coverage through the ACA marketplace, which began on February 15, 2021 and remained open through August 15, 2021. The executive order also instructed certain governmental agencies to review and reconsider their existing policies and rules that limit access to healthcare, including among others, reexamining Medicaid demonstration projects and waiver programs that include work requirements, and policies that create unnecessary barriers to obtaining access to health insurance coverage through Medicaid or the ACA. It is unclear how other healthcare reform measures of the Biden administration or other efforts, if any, to challenge, repeal or replace the ACA will impact the ACA or our business. Various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level within the United States. The ACA as well as other federal and/or state healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, singularly or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Government and private insurance plans may not adequately reimburse our customers for our products, which could result in reductions in sales or selling prices for our products. Our ability to sell our products depends in large part on the extent to which coverage and adequate reimbursement for our products will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. These third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services and can, without notice, deny coverage for our products or treatments that may include the use of our products. Therefore, even if a product is approved for marketing, we cannot make assurances that coverage and reimbursement will be available for the product, that the reimbursement amount will be adequate or that the reimbursement amount, even if initially adequate, will not be subsequently reduced. For example, in some markets, such as Spain, France and Germany, government coverage and reimbursement are currently available for the purchase or rental of our products but are subject to constraints such as price controls or unit sales limitations. In other markets, such as Australia, there is currently limited or no reimbursement for devices that treat sleep apnea conditions. As we continue to develop new products, those products will generally not qualify for coverage and reimbursement until they are approved for marketing, if at all. In the United States, we sell our products primarily to home healthcare dealers, hospitals and sleep clinics. Reductions in reimbursement to our customers by third-party payers, if they occur, may have a material impact on our customers and, therefore, may indirectly affect our pricing and sales to, or the collectability of receivables we have from, those customers. A development negatively affecting reimbursement stems from the Medicare competitive bidding program mandated by the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (MMA).  Under the program, our customers who provide DME must compete to offer products in designated competitive bidding areas, or CBAs. In addition, under the ACA, in 2016, CMS adjusted the prices in non-competitive bidding areas to match competitive bidding prices. CMS phased in the new rates beginning January 1, 2016, and were fully effective July 1, 2016. This program has significantly reduced the Medicare reimbursement to our customers compared with reimbursement in 2011, at the beginning of the program. The 21st Century Cures Act retroactively adjusted rates in non-bid areas to allow for the higher phase-in rates to be paid for items furnished between July 1, 2016 and December 31, 2016, rather than the lower fully-adjusted rates. Rules issued by CMS in 2018 resumed the higher phase-in rates in rural and non-contiguous non-competitive bidding areas for items furnished between June 1, 2018 and December 31, 2020. Pursuant to the CARES Act, these higher phase-in rates were extended through December 31, 2020, or through the end of the COVID-19 public health emergency, and were implemented in areas other than rural areas and noncontiguous areas for the same period. On March 7, 2019, CMS announced it would initiate a new round of competitive bidding, named Round 2021, with contracts effective on January 1, 2021 through December 31, 2023.  In addition to adopting new bidding processes, CMS expanded the product categories included in competitive bidding to include non-invasive ventilators. However, d ue to the COVID-19 pandemic, CMS removed NIVs from Round 2021 of the DMEPOS Competitive Bidding Program. CPAP, and respiratory assist devices, and related supplies and accessories, which had been included in prior rounds of competitive bidding, were included in the 15 remaining product categories that were bid for in Round 2021. However, CMS did not award competitive bidding contracts for any product categories other than OTS back and knee braces.  Payment for items where contracts were not awarded – including CPAP and respiratory assist devices – will be based on adjusted fee schedule amounts. At this time, we cannot predict the full impact the competitive bidding program and the developments in the competitive bidding program will have on our business and financial condition. If changes are made to this program in the future, it could affect amounts being recovered by our customers. - 30 - RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES In addition, our products are the subject of periodic studies by third party agencies, including the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality in the United States, intended to review the comparative effectiveness of different treatments of the same illness. Although the results of comparative effectiveness studies are not intended to mandate any reimbursement policies for public or private payers, it is not clear what, if any, effect such research will have on the sales of our products. Decreases in third-party reimbursement for our products or a decision by a third-party payer to not cover our products as a result of a third-party study could have a material adverse effect on our sales, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to comply with anti-kickback and fraud regulations could result in substantial penalties and changes in our business operations. Although in the United States we do not provide healthcare services, submit claims for third-party reimbursement, or receive payments directly from Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors for our products, we are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulation and enforcement by federal, state and foreign governments, which could significantly impact our business. We also are subject to foreign fraud and abuse laws, which vary by country. In the United States, the laws that may affect our ability to operate include, but are not limited to:  the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons and entities from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering, or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, lease, order or recommendation of, any good, facility, item or service for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, under federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid.  A person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate the Anti-Kickback Statute itself to have committed a violation. The U.S. government has interpreted this law broadly to apply to the marketing and sales activities of manufacturers, distributors and revenue cycle management companies like us. Violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute may result in significant civil monetary penalties for each violation, plus up to three times the remuneration involved. Violations of the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute can also result in significant criminal penalties and imprisonment;  federal civil and criminal false claims laws, including the False Claims Act, and civil monetary penalty laws, that prohibit, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment or approval to the federal government that are false or fraudulent, knowingly making a false statement material to an obligation to pay or transmit money or property to the federal government or knowingly concealing or knowingly and improperly avoiding or decreasing an obligation to pay or transmit money or property to the federal government. These laws may apply to manufacturers and distributors who provide information on coverage , coding, and reimbursement of their products to persons who do bill third-party payors. In addition, the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the federal civil False Claims Act. Violations can result in debarment, suspension or exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. When an entity is determined to have violated the federal civil False Claims Act, the government may impose significant civil fines and penalties for each false claim, plus treble damages, and exclude the entity from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs.  HIPAA, which created federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters. A person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of these statutes or specific intent to violate them to have committed a violation;  the federal Physician Sunshine Act requirements under the ACA, which impose reporting and disclosure requirements on device and drug manufacturers for any “transfer of value” made or distributed by certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics , and medical supplies to physicians (including doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors), teaching hospitals, and ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members. Beginning in 2022, applicable manufacturers also will be required to report such information regarding payments and transfers of value provided during the previous year to physician assistants, nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialists, certified nurse anesthetists, anesthesiology assistants and certified nurse midwives;  federal consumer protection and unfair competition laws, which broadly regulate marketplace activities and activities that potentially harm customers; and  state and foreign law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers; state laws that require device companies to comply with the industry’s voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government, or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers and other potential referral sources; state laws that require device manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures. - 31 - RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES The scope and enforcement of these laws are uncertain and subject to rapid change in the current environment of healthcare reform, especially in light of the lack of applicable precedent and regulations. Federal and state enforcement bodies have recently increased their scrutiny of interactions between healthcare companies and healthcare providers, which has led to a number of investigations, prosecutions, convictions and settlements in the healthcare industry.  Responding to investigations can be time-and resource-consuming and can divert management’s attention from the business. Additionally, as a result of these types of investigations, healthcare providers and entities may face litigation or have to agree to settlements that can include monetary penalties and onerous compliance and reporting requirements as part of a consent decree or corporate integrity agreement. Any such investigation or settlement could increase our costs or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us now or in the future, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, disgorgement, exclusion from governmental health care programs, additional compliance and reporting obligations, imprisonment and the curtailment or restructuring of our ope rations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. In December 2019, we entered into a settlement agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice and the U.S. Attorneys’ Offices for the District Court of South Carolina, the Southern District of California, the Northern District of Iowa and the Eastern District of New York.  The agreement resolved five lawsuits originally brought by whistleblowers under the qui tam provisions of the False Claims Act and allegations that we: (a) provided DME companies with free telephone call center services and other free patient outreach services that enabled these companies to order resupplies for their patients with sleep apnea, (b) provided sleep labs with free and below-cost positive airway pressure masks and diagnostic machines, as well as free installation of these machines, (c) arranged for, and fully guaranteed the payments due on, interest-free loans that DME supplies acquired from third-party financial institutions for the purchase of our equipment, and (d) provided non-sleep specialist physicians free home sleep testing devices referred to as “ApneaLink.”  We agreed with the government to civilly resolve these matters for a payment of $39.5 million ($37.5 million to the federal government and $2 million to the various states) and we incurred additional fees and administrative costs that typically accompany such a resolution amounting to $1.1 million. The specific allegations and the resolution of those allegations are contained in the Company’s settlement agreement with the adverse parties. The total final costs relating to these matters was $40.6 million. Contemporaneous with the civil settlement, we also entered into a five-year Corporate Integrity Agreement, or CIA, with the Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General.  The CIA required, among other things, that we implement additional controls around our product pricing and sales and that we conduct internal and external monitoring of our arrangements with referrals sources.  The settlement agreement with the government and the CIA could result in reputational harm or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could materially adversely affect our financial results and our ability to operate our business. In addition, our failure to comply with our obligations under the CIA could result in monetary penalties and our exclusion from participating in federal healthcare programs. The costs associated with compliance with the CIA, or any liability or consequences associated with its breach, could have an adverse effect on our operations, liquidity and financial condition. Our use and disclosure of individually identifiable information, including health information, is subject to federal, state and foreign privacy and security regulations, and our failure to comply with those regulations or to adequately secure the information we hold could result in significant liability or reputational harm. The privacy and security of personally identifiable information stored, maintained, received or transmitted electronically is a major issue in the U.S. and abroad. While we strive to comply with all applicable privacy and security laws and regulations, as well as our own posted privacy policies, legal standards for privacy, including but not limited to “unfairness” and “deception,” as enforced by the FTC and state attorneys general, continue to evolve and any failure or perceived failure to comply may result in proceedings or actions against us by government entities or others, or could cause us to lose audience and customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Recently, there has been an increase in public awareness of privacy issues in the wake of revelations about the activities of various government agencies and in the number of private privacy-related lawsuits filed against companies. Concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, security or deletion of personally identifiable information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded and even if we are in compliance with applicable laws, could damage our reputation and harm our business. Numerous foreign, federal and state laws and regulations govern collection, dissemination, use and confidentiality of personally identifiable health information, including (i) state privacy and confidentiality laws (including state laws requiring disclosure of breaches); (ii) HIPAA; and (iii) European and other foreign data protection laws, including the GDPR. - 32 - RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES HIPAA establishes a set of national privacy and security standards for the protection of individually identifiable health information, or protected health information, by health plans, healthcare clearinghouses and healthcare providers that submit certain covered transactions electronically, or covered entities, and their “business associates,” which are persons or entities that perform certain services for, or on behalf of, a covered entity that involve creating, receiving, maintaining or transmitting protected health information, as well as their covered subcontractors. Certain portions of our business, such as the cloud-based software digital health applications, are subject to HIPAA as a business associate of our covered entity clients.  To provide our covered entity clients with services that involve access to PHI, HIPAA requires us to enter into business associate agreements that require us to safeguard PHI in accordance with HIPAA. As a business associate, we are also directly liable for compliance with HIPAA. Penalties for violations of HIPAA regulations include civil and criminal penalties. HIPAA authorizes state attorneys’ general to file suit under HIPAA on behalf of state residents. Courts can award damages, costs and attorneys’ fees related to violations of HIPAA in such cases. While HIPAA does not create a private right of action allowing individuals to sue us in civil court for HIPAA violations, its standards have been used as the basis for a duty of care claim in state civil suits such as those for negligence or recklessness in the misuse or breach of PHI. HIPAA further requires business associates like us to notify our covered entity clients “without unreasonable delay and in no case later than 60 calendar days after discovery of the breach.” Covered entities must notify affected individuals “without unreasonable delay and in no case later than 60 calendar days after discovery of the breach” if their unsecured PHI is subject to an unauthorized access, use or disclosure. If a breach affects 500 patients or more, covered entities must report it to HHS and local media without unreasonable delay, and HHS will post the name of the breaching entity on its public website. If a breach affects fewer than 500 individuals, the covered entity must log it and notify HHS at least annually. If we are unable to properly protect the privacy and security of health information entrusted to us, our solutions may be perceived as not secure, we may incur significant liabilities and customers may curtail their use of or stop using our solutions. In addition, if we fail to comply with the terms of our business associate agreements with our clients, we are liable not only contractually but also directly under HIPAA. In addition, the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, or CCPA, became effective on January 1, 2020. The CCPA gives California residents expanded rights to access and delete their personal information, opt out of certain personal information sharing and receive detailed information about how their personal information is used by requiring covered companies to provide new disclosures to California consumers (as that term is broadly defined) and provide such consumers new ways to opt-out of certain sales of personal information. The CCPA includes civil penalties for violations, as well as a private right of action for data breaches that is expected to increase data breach litigation. Although the law includes limited exceptions, including for “protected health information” maintained by a covered entity or business associate, it may regulate or impact our processing of personal information depending on the context. CCPA’s implementation standards and enforcement practices are likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future, and the CCPA may increase our compliance costs and potential liability. Further, the California Privacy Rights Act, or CPRA, was recently passed in California and not only revises but expands upon CCPA. The CPRA will impose additional data protection obligations on covered businesses, including additional consumer rights processes, limitations on data uses, new audit requirements for higher risk data, and opt outs for certain uses of sensitive data. It will also create a new California data protection agency authorized to issue substantive regulations and could result in increased privacy and information security enforcement. The majority of the provisions will go into effect on January 1, 2023, will supersede the CCPA, and additional compliance investment and potential business process changes may be required. In the event that we are subject to or affected by HIPAA, the CCPA, the CPRA or other domestic privacy and data protection law, any liability from failure to comply with the requirements of these laws could adversely affect our financial condition. We are also subject to laws and regulations in non-U.S. countries covering data privacy and the protection of health-related and other personal information. For example, EU member states and other jurisdictions have adopted data protection laws and regulations, which impose significant compliance obligations. Laws and regulations in these jurisdictions apply broadly to the collection, use, storage, disclosure and security of personal information that identifies or may be used to identify an individual, such as names, contact information, and sensitive personal data such as health data. These laws and regulations are subject to frequent revisions and differing interpretations and have generally become more stringent over time. In addition, the GDPR went into effect in May 2018. The GDPR imposes stringent data protection requirements for the processing of personal data in the European Economic Area, or EEA. The GDPR imposes several stringent requirements for controllers and processors of personal data, and increased our obligations, for example, by imposing higher standards for obtaining consent from individuals to process their personal data, requiring more robust disclosures to individuals, strengthening individual data rights, shortening timelines for data breach notifications, limiting retention periods and secondary use of information (including for research purposes) , increasing requirements pertaining to health data and pseudonymized (i.e., key-coded) data and imposing additional obligations when we contract with third party processors in connection with the processing of the personal data. The GDPR also imposes strict rules on the transfer - 33 - RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES of personal data out of the EEA, including to the United States, and recent legal developments in Europe have created complexity and uncertainty regarding such transfers of personal data from the EEA to the United States. For example, on July 16, 2020, the Court of Justice of the European Union, or CJEU, invalidated the EU-US Privacy Shield Framework, or Privacy Shield, under which personal data could be transferred from the EEA to United States entities that had self-certified under the Privacy Shield scheme. While the CJEU upheld the adequacy of the standard contractual clauses (a standard form of contract approved by the European Commission as an adequate personal data transfer mechanism, and potential alternative to the Privacy Shield), the CJEU ruled that the underlying data transfers must be assessed on a case-by-case basis by the data controller to determine whether the personal data will be adequately protected. As a result, on June 4, 2021 the European Commission published a decision adopting an updated set of new standard contractual clauses designed to address issues identified by the CJEU. Existing data transfers that rely on the old standard contractual clauses can continue to be used until December 27, 2022 and the use of the new standard contractual clauses will still need to be assessed on a case-by-case basis taking into account the legal regime applicable in the destination country, in particular applicable surveillance laws and rights of individuals. The exact scope and applicability of the new standard contractual clauses is currently unclear, particularly regarding transfers to parties outside the EEA who are already subject to the GDPR. We are awaiting further clarification from the European Commission and therefore the full scope of application of the standard contractual clauses remains subject to review and change as we get a better understanding from the European Commission and national regulators . European data protection law provides that EEA member states may make their own further laws and regulations limiting the processing of genetic, biometric or health data, which could limit our ability to use and share personal data or could cause our costs could increase, and harm our business and financial condition. The GDPR and other similar regulations impose additional conditions in order to satisfy such consent for electronic marketing, such as a prohibition on pre-checked tick boxes and bundled consents, thereby requiring customers to affirmatively consent for a given purpose through separate tick boxes or other affirmative action. Failure to comply with the requirements of GDPR and the applicable national data protection and marketing laws of the EEA member states may result in fines of up to €20,000,000 or up to 4% of the total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year, whichever is higher, and other administrative penalties as well as individual claims for compensation . In addition, from January 1, 2021, we have had to comply with the GDPR and United Kingdom GDPR, which, together with the amended United Kingdom Data Protection Act 2018, retains the GDPR in United Kingdom national law. The United Kingdom GDPR mirrors the fines under the GDPR, i.e. , fines up to the greater of £17.5 million or 4% of global turnover. The relationship between the United Kingdom and the EU in relation to certain aspects of data protection law remains unclear, and it is unclear how United Kingdom data protection laws and regulations will develop in the medium to longer term. On June 28, 2021, the European Commission adopted an adequacy decision in favor of the United Kingdom, enabling data transfers from EU member states to the United Kingdom without additional safeguards. However, the United Kingdom adequacy decision will automatically expire in June 2025 unless the European Commission renews or extends that decision and remains under review by the Commission during this period. Compliance with these and any other applicable privacy and data security laws and regulations is a rigorous and time-intensive process, and we may be required to put in place additional mechanisms ensuring compliance with the new data protection rules. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with privacy or security laws, policies, legal obligations or industry standards or any security incident that results in the unauthorized release or transfer of personally identifiable information may also result in governmental enforcement actions and investigations, fines and penalties, litigation and/or adverse publicity, including by consumer advocacy groups, and could cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. Such failures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. If the third parties we work with violate applicable laws, contractual obligations or suffer a security breach, such violations may also put us in breach of our obligations under privacy laws and regulations and/or could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business activities are subject to extensive regulation, and any failure to comply could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We are subject to extensive U.S. federal, state, local and international regulations regarding our business activities. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in, among other things, recalls of our products, substantial fines and criminal charges against us or against our employees. Furthermore, certain of our products could be subject to recall if the Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, other regulators or we determine, for any reason, that those products are not safe or effective. Any recall or other regulatory action could increase our costs, damage our reputation, affect our ability to supply customers with the quantity of products they require and materially affect our operating results. - 34 - RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Product sales, introductions or modifications may be delayed or canceled as a result of FDA regulations or similar foreign regulations, which could cause our sales and profits to decline. Unless a product is exempt, before we can market or sell a new medical device in the United States, we must obtain FDA clearance or approval, which can be a lengthy and time-consuming process.  We generally receive clearance from the FDA to market our products in the United States under Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or our products are exempt from the Section 510(k) clearance process. The 510(k) clearance process can be expensive, time-consuming and uncertain. In the 510(k) clearance process, the FDA must determine that a proposed device is “substantially equivalent” to a device legally on the market, known as a “predicate” device, with respect to intended use, technology and safety and effectiveness, in order to clear the proposed device for marketing. The FDA has a high degree of latitude when evaluating submissions and may determine that a proposed device submitted for 510(k) clearance is not substantially equivalent to a predicate device.  After a device receives 510(k) premarket notification clearance from the FDA, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in the intended use of the device, technology, materials, packaging, and certain manufacturing processes may require a new 510(k) clearance or premarket approval.  We have modified some of our Section 510(k) approved products without submitting new Section 510(k) notices, which we do not believe were required. However, if the FDA disagrees with us and requires us to submit new Section 510(k) notifications for modifications to our existing products, we may be required to stop marketing the products while the FDA reviews the Section 510(k) notification. Any new product introduction or existing product modification could be subjected to a lengthier, more rigorous FDA examination process. For example, in certain cases we may need to conduct clinical trials of a new product before submitting a 510(k) notice. We may also be required to obtain premarket approvals for certain of our products. Indeed, recent trends in the FDA’s review of premarket notification submissions suggest that the FDA is often requiring manufacturers to provide new, more expansive, or different information regarding a particular device than what the manufacturer anticipated upon 510(k) submission.  This has resulted in increasing uncertainty and delay in the premarket notification review process. For example, in November 2018, FDA officials announced steps that the FDA intended to take to modernize the 510(k) premarket notification pathway. Among other things, the FDA announced that it planned to develop proposals to drive manufacturers utilizing the 510(k) pathway toward the use of newer predicates. These proposals included plans to potentially sunset certain older devices that were used as predicates under the 510(k) clearance pathway, and to potentially publish a list of devices that have been cleared on the basis of demonstrated substantial equivalence to predicate devices that are more than 10 years old. In September 2019, the FDA also issued revised final guidance establishing a “Safety and Performance Based Pathway” for “manufacturers of certain well-understood device types” allowing manufacturers to rely on objective safety and performance criteria recognized by the FDA to demonstrate substantial equivalence, obviating the need for manufacturers to compare the safety and performance of their medical devices to specific predicate devices in the clearance process. The FDA has developed and maintains a list of device types appropriate for the “safety and performance based” pathway and continues to develop product-specific guidance documents that identify the performance criteria and recommended testing methodologies for each such device type, where feasible.  Some of these proposals have not yet been finalized or adopted, although the FDA may work with Congress to implement such proposals through legislation.  Accordingly, it is unclear the extent to which any proposals, if adopted, could impose additional regulatory requirements on us that could delay our ability to obtain new 510(k) clearances, increase the costs of compliance, or restrict our ability to maintain our current clearances, or otherwise create competition that may negatively affect our business. The FDA’s ongoing review of the 510(k) program may make it more difficult for us to make modifications to our previously cleared products, either by imposing stricter requirements on when a manufacturer must submit a new 510(k) for a modification to a previously cleared product, or by applying more onerous review criteria to such submissions.  FDA continues to review its 510(k) clearance process which could result in additional changes to regulatory requirements or guidance documents which could increase the costs of compliance or restrict our ability to maintain current clearances.  The requirements of the more rigorous premarket approval process and/or significant changes to the 510(k) clearance process could delay product introductions and increase the costs associated with FDA compliance.  Marketing and sale of our products outside the United States are also subject to regulatory clearances and approvals, and if we fail to obtain these regulatory approvals, our sales could suffer.  We cannot assure you that any new products we develop will receive required regulatory approvals from U.S. or foreign regulatory agencies. - 35 - RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES We are subject to substantial regulation related to quality standards applicable to our manufacturing and quality processes. Our failure to comply with these standards could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. The FDA regulates the approval, manufacturing, and sales and marketing of many of our products in the United States. Significant government regulation also exists in Canada, Japan, Europe, and other countries in which we conduct business. As a device manufacturer, we are required to register with the FDA and are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation requirements, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation procedures. In addition, the federal Medical Device Reporting regulations require us to provide information to the FDA whenever there is evidence that reasonably suggests that a device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or, if a malfunction were to occur, could cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is rigorously monitored through periodic inspections by the FDA. In the European Community, we are required to maintain certain ISO certifications in order to sell our products and must undergo periodic inspections by notified bodies to obtain and maintain these certifications. Failure to comply with current governmental regulations and quality assurance guidelines could lead to temporary manufacturing shutdowns, product recalls or related field actions, product shortages or delays in product manufacturing. Efficacy or safety concerns, an increase in trends of adverse events in the marketplace, and/or manufacturing quality issues with respect to our products could lead to product recalls or related field actions, withdrawals, and/or declining sales. Disruptions at the FDA and other government agencies caused by funding shortages or global health concerns could hinder their ability to hire, retain or deploy key leadership and other personnel, or otherwise prevent new or modified products from being developed, cleared or approved or commercialized in a timely manner or at all, which could negatively impact our business. The ability of the FDA to review and clear or approve new products can be affected by a variety of factors, including government budget and funding levels, statutory, regulatory, and policy changes, the FDA’s ability to hire and retain key personnel and accept the payment of user fees, and other events that may otherwise affect the FDA’s ability to perform routine functions. Average review times at the FDA have fluctuated in recent years as a result. In addition, government funding of other government agencies that fund research and development activities is subject to the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. Disruptions at the FDA and other agencies may also slow the time necessary for medical devices or modifications to cleared or approved medical devices to be reviewed and/or approved by necessary government agencies, which would adversely affect our business.  For example, over the last several years, including for 35 days beginning on December 22, 2018, the U.S. government has shut down several times and certain regulatory agencies, such as the FDA, have had to furlough critical FDA employees and stop critical activities. Separately, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, on March 10, 2020, the FDA announced its intention to postpone most foreign inspections of manufacturing facilities, and subsequently, on March 18, 2020, the FDA temporarily postponed routine surveillance inspections of domestic manufacturing facilities. Regulatory authorities outside the United States may adopt similar restrictions or other policy measures in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Subsequently, on July 10, 2020, the FDA announced its intention to resume certain on-site inspections of domestic manufacturing facilities subject to a risk-based prioritization system. The FDA intends to use this risk-based assessment system to identify the categories of regulatory activity that can occur within a given geographic area, ranging from mission critical inspections to resumption of all regulatory activities. If a prolonged government shutdown occurs, or if global health concerns continue to prevent the FDA or other regulatory authorities from conducting their regular inspections, reviews, or other regulatory activities, it could significantly impact the ability of the FDA or other regulatory authorities to timely review and process our regulatory submissions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Off-label marketing of our products could result in substantial penalties. The FDA strictly regulates the promotional claims that may be made about FDA-cleared products.  In particular, clearance under Section 510(k) only permits us to market our products for the uses indicated on the labeling cleared by the FDA. We may request additional label indications for our current products, and the FDA may deny those requests outright, require additional expensive clinical data to support any additional indications or impose limitations on the intended use of any cleared products as a condition of clearance. If the FDA determines that we have marketed our products for off-label use, we could be subject to fines, injunctions or other penalties.  It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our business activities to constitute promotion of an off-label use, which could result in significant penalties, including, but not limited to, criminal, civil and administrative penalties, damages, fines, disgorgement, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, and the curtailment of our operations. Any of these events could significantly harm our business and results of operations and cause our stock price to decline. - 36 - RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Laws regulating consumer contacts could adversely affect our business operations or create liabilities. Our business activities include contacts with consumers in different parts of the world. Certain laws, such as the U.S. Telephone Consumer Protection Act, regulate telemarketing practices and certain automated outbound contacts with consumers, such as phone calls, texts or emails. Our use of outbound contacts may be restricted by existing laws, or by laws, regulations, or regulatory decisions that may be adopted in the future. Similarly, certain data privacy laws, including CCPA, and subsequently CPRA, and the GDPR require disclosure of our privacy practices to consumers. If we are found to have violated these laws or regulations, we may be subjected to substantial fines, penalties, or liabilities to consumers. Tax laws, regulations, and enforcement practices are evolving and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Tax laws, regulations, and administrative practices in various jurisdictions are evolving and may be subject to significant changes due to economic, political, and other conditions. There are many transactions that occur during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain, and significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for taxes. Governments are increasingly focused on ways to increase tax revenues, particularly from multinational corporations, which may lead to an increase in audit activity and aggressive positions taken by tax authorities. Changes or clarifications to U.S. tax laws could materially affect the tax treatment of our domestic and foreign earnings. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, an international association of 34 countries, including the United States, released the final reports from its Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, or BEPS, Action Plans, which aim to standardize and modernize global tax policies. The BEPS Action Plans propose revisions to numerous tax rules, including country-by-country reporting, permanent establishment, hybrid entities and instruments, transfer pricing, and tax treaties. The BEPS Action Plans have been or are being enacted by countries where we have operations. Additionally , the U.S. Treasury department recently proposed the adoption of a global minimum corporate tax rate of at least 15%, which, if enacted, could negatively impact our effective tax rate. Developments in relevant tax laws, regulations, administrative practices and enforcement practices could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial position and cash flows, including the need to obtain additional financing. We are subject to tax audits by various tax authorities in many jurisdictions. Our income tax returns are based on calculations and assumptions that require significant judgment, and are subject to audit by various tax authorities. In addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws.  We regularly assess the potential outcomes of examinations by tax authorities in determining the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. We are under audit by the Australian Taxation Office (the “ATO”) for the years 2009 to 2018 (the “Audit Period”). The audits primarily involve a transfer pricing dispute in which the ATO asserts we should have paid additional Australian taxes on income derived from our Singapore operations. The ATO issued Notices of Amended Assessments for the tax years 2009 to 2013 seeking a total of $266.0 million, consisting of $151.7 million in additional income tax and $114.3 million in penalties and interest. The 2014 to 2018 periods are still under audit and we have not yet received any Notices of Amended Assessments relative to those periods. We are engaged in advanced discussions with the ATO to settle the dispute for the entire Audit Period. Given the stage of those discussions, during the year ended June 30, 2021, we recorded $395.3 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits, including $47.5 million of accrued interest and penalties. This amount reflects our estimate of the potential tax liability and is subject to change. Included in the balance of uncertain tax positions as of June 30, 2021 were $248.7 million of net unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would reduce the effective income tax rate in future periods. This amount represents the $395.3 million of gross unrecognized tax, adjusted for tax credits and deductions of $146.6 million. If the matter were to progress to litigation, we continue to believe we are more likely than not to be successful in defending our position. If we are not successful in litigation, we will be required to pay some or all of the additional income tax, accrued interest and penalties, including potential additional amounts relating to the 2014 to 2018 periods. The timing and resolution of the ATO audits are inherently uncertain, and the amounts we might ultimately pay or receive in credits and deductions, if any, upon resolution of issues raised by the ATO may differ materially from the amounts accrued. Although it is expected that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits may change in the next 12 months, an estimate of the range of the possible change cannot be made. Outside the ATO audit describe above, tax years 2017 to 2020 remain subject to future examination by the major tax jurisdictions in which we are subject to tax. - 37 - RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock Our results of operations may be materially affected by global economic conditions generally, including conditions in the financial markets. Global economic conditions could make it difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. Adverse economic conditions could cause customers to reduce or delay their purchases, which could impact our revenue, our ability to manage inventory levels, collect customer receivables, and potentially decrease our profitability. In addition, prevailing economic conditions could constrain the supply of components used in the manufacturing of our products, which may result in higher costs and impact our ability to meet customer demand. We cannot predict the timing, strength, or duration of any economic slowdown, or the speed of any subsequent economic recovery. If the economy or markets in which we operate were to deteriorate, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuation for a variety of reasons. Our operating results have, from time to time, fluctuated on a quarterly basis and may be subject to similar fluctuations in the future. These fluctuations may result from a number of factors, including:  the introduction of new products by us or our competitors;  the geographic mix of product sales;  the success and costs of our marketing efforts in new regions;  changes in third-party payor reimbursement;  timing of regulatory clearances and approvals;  costs associated with acquiring and integrating new businesses, technologies and product offerings;  timing of orders by distributors;  expenditures incurred for research and development;  competitive pricing in different regions;  the effect of foreign currency transaction gains or losses; and  other activities, including product recalls, by our competitors. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate. Delaware law and provisions in our charter and could make it difficult for another company to acquire us. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or management which might be beneficial to us or our security holders. In particular, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without further vote or action by the stockholders.  The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future.  The issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, may discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over the market price of our common stock and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. - 38 - RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Overview Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (“MD&A”) is intended to help the reader understand our results of operations and financial condition. It is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with the selected financial data and consolidated financial statements and notes included in this report. We are a global leader in the development, manufacturing, distribution and marketing of medical devices and cloud-based software applications that diagnose, treat and manage respiratory disorders, including SDB, COPD, neuromuscular disease and other chronic diseases. SDB includes obstructive sleep apnea and other respiratory disorders that occur during sleep. Our products and solutions are designed to improve patient quality of life, reduce the impact of chronic disease and lower healthcare costs as global healthcare systems continue to drive a shift in care from hospitals to the home and lower cost settings. Our cloud-based digital health applications, along with our devices, are designed to provide connected care to improve patient outcomes and efficiencies for our customers. Since the development of continuous positive airway pressure therapy, we have expanded our business by developing or acquiring a number of products and solutions for a broader range of respiratory disorders including technologies to be applied in medical and consumer products, ventilation devices, diagnostic products, mask systems for use in the hospital and home, headgear and other accessories, dental devices, and cloud-based software informatics solutions to manage patient outcomes and customer and provider business processes. Our growth has been fueled by geographic expansion, our research and product development efforts, acquisitions and an increasing awareness of SDB and other respiratory conditions like chronic obstructive pulmonary disease as significant health concerns. We are committed to ongoing investment in research and development and product enhancements.  During fiscal year 2021, we invested $225.3 million on research and development activities, which represents 7.0% of net revenues with a continued focus on the development and commercialization of new, innovative products and solutions that improve patient outcomes, create efficiencies for our customers and help physicians and providers better manage chronic disease and lower healthcare costs. During fiscal year 2021 we commenced a controlled product launch of AirSense 11, which will be followed by a broader launch throughout fiscal year 2022. AirSense 11 will introduce new features such as a touch screen, algorithms for patients new to therapy and digital enhancements, such as over-the-air update capabilities. Due to multiple acquisitions, including Brightree in April 2016, HEALTHCAREfirst in July 2018 and MatrixCare in November 2018, our operations now include out-of-hospital software platforms designed to support the professionals and caregivers who help people stay healthy in the home or care setting of their choice. These platforms comprise our SaaS business. These products, our cloud-based remote monitoring and therapy management system, and a robust product pipeline, should continue to provide us with a strong platform for future growth. We have determined that we have two operating segments, which are the sleep and respiratory disorders sector of the medical device industry (“Sleep and Respiratory Care”) and the supply of business management software as a service to out-of-hospital health providers (“SaaS”). Net revenue in fiscal year 2021 increased to $3,196.8 million, an increase of 8% compared to fiscal year 2020. Gross profit increased for the year ended June 30, 2021 to $1,839.1 million, from $1,717.8 million for the year ended June 30, 2020, an increase $121.3 million or 7%. Our net income for the year ended June 30, 2021 was $474.5 million or $3.24 per diluted share compared to net income of $621.7 million or $4.27 per diluted share for the year ended June 30, 2020. Unrecognized tax benefits as described at note 14 – Income Taxes impacted our diluted earnings per share by $1.70 for the year ended June 30, 2021. Total operating cash flow for fiscal year 2021 was $736.7 million and at June 30, 2021, our cash and cash equivalents totaled $295.3 million.  At June 30, 2021, our total assets were $4.7 billion and our stockholders’ equity was $2.9 billion. We paid a quarterly dividend of $0.39 per share during fiscal 2021 with a total amount of $226.7 million paid to stockholders. In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed, excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, we provide certain financial information on a “constant currency basis”, which is in addition to the actual financial information presented.  In order to calculate our constant currency information, we translate the current period financial information using the foreign currency exchange rates that were in effect during the previous comparable period.  However, constant currency measures should not be considered in isolation or as an alternative to U.S. dollar measures that reflect current period exchange rates, or to other financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”). - 43 - RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations For discussion related to the results of operations and changes in financial condition for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 compared to fiscal year June 30, 2019, please refer to Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual Report for the Year Ended June 30, 2020, which was filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission on August 13, 2020. Impact of COVID-19 In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of a novel strain of coronavirus (“COVID-19”) as a pandemic. Our primary goal during the COVID-19 pandemic is the preservation of life. We have prioritized protecting the health and safety of our employees and continuing to use our employees’ talents and our resources to help society meet and overcome the challenges the pandemic poses. During the year ended June 30, 2021, we observed immaterial incremental demand for our ventilator devices and masks associated with the COVID-19 pandemic. Although there is still substantial uncertainty, we believe the global demand for ventilators and other respiratory support devices used to treat COVID-19 patients has largely been met. As such, we do not expect material COVID-19-generated demand for our ventilator products for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2022. Diagnostic pathways for sleep apnea treatment, including physician practices, HME suppliers and sleep clinics, have been impacted and, in some instances, been required, to temporarily close due to governments’ “shelter-in-place” orders, quarantines or similar orders or restrictions enacted to control the spread of COVID-19. In some countries, new patients are prescribed sleep apnea treatment through hospitals that are directing their resources to critical care, including COVID-19 treatment. The impact on these diagnostic and prescription pathways has resulted in a decrease in demand from new patients for our products designed to treat sleep apnea. Although certain governments have begun to reduce or remove COVID-19 restrictions and implement vaccination programs to varying degrees, we are uncertain as to the duration and extent of the impact on demand for our sleep devices. However, due to the nature of the installed base of existing patients using our devices, we have not seen any significant adverse impact on demand for re-supply of our masks. Our SaaS business has also been affected by COVID-19 and measures taken to control the spread of COVID-19. Some of our existing and potential SaaS customers are HME distributors and have been impacted by the same temporary business closures noted above. We also have existing and potential SaaS customers that operate care facilities and are either receiving and treating patients infected with COVID-19 or have implemented significant measures to safeguard their facilities against a potential COVID-19 outbreak. Given these challenging business conditions, businesses may be deterred from adopting new or changing SaaS platforms, which may adversely impact our ability to engage new customers for our SaaS businesses, or expand the services used by existing customers. Our ability to continue to operate without any significant negative impacts will in part depend on our ability to protect our employees. We have endeavored and continue to follow recommended actions of government and health authorities to protect our employees worldwide, but since COVID-19 was declared a pandemic in March 2020, we were able to broadly maintain our operations, and we are beginning the slow and careful process of progressively returning to work in some of our offices around the world. The pandemic has not negatively impacted our liquidity position. - 44 - RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2021 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2020 Net Revenues. Net revenue for the year ended June 30, 2021 increased to $3,196.8 million from $2,957.0 million for the year ended June 30, 2020, an increase of $239.8 million or 8% (a 6% increase on a constant currency basis). The following table summarizes our net revenue disaggregated by segment, product and region for the year ended June 30, 2021 compared to the year ended June 30, 2020 (in thousands): * Constant currency numbers exclude the impact of movements in international currencies. Sleep and Respiratory Care Net revenue from our Sleep and Respiratory Care business for the year ended June 30, 2021 increased to $2,823.2 million from $2,602.4 million for the year ended June 30, 2020, an increase of $220.9 million or 8%.  Movements in international currencies against the U.S. dollar positively impacted net revenues by approximately $75.2 million for the year ended June 30, 2021. Excluding the impact of currency movements, total net revenue from our Sleep and Respiratory Care business for the year ended June 30, 2021 increased by 6% compared to the year ended June 30, 2020. The increase in net revenue was primarily attributable to an increase in unit sales of our devices and masks, including recovery of core sleep patient flow that was previously impacted by the pandemic and increased demand following a recent product recall by one of our competitors, partially offset by decreased COVID-19 related demand for our ventilators. Net revenue from our Sleep and Respiratory Care business in the United States, Canada and Latin America for the year ended June 30, 2021 increased to $1,705.1 million from $1,572.3 million for the year ended June 30, 2020, an increase of $132.8 million or 8%. The increase was primarily due to an increase in unit sales of our devices and masks, including recovery of core sleep patient flow that was previously impacted by the pandemic and increased demand following a recent product recall by one of our competitors, partially offset by decreased COVID-19 related demand for our ventilators. Net revenue from our Sleep and Respiratory Care business in combined Europe, Asia and other markets increased for the year ended June 30, 2021 to $1,118.1 million from $1,030.1 million for the year ended June 30, 2020, an increase of $88.1 million or 9% (an increase of 2% on a constant currency basis).  The constant currency increase in sales in combined Europe, Asia and other markets predominantly reflects an increase in unit sales of our devices and masks, including recovery of core sleep patient flow that was previously impacted by the pandemic, partially offset by decreased COVID-19-related demand for our ventilators. Net revenue from devices for the year ended June 30, 2021 increased to $1,610.0 million from $1,507.8 million for the year ended June 30, 2020, an increase of $102.2 million or 7%, including an increase of 9% in the United States, Canada and Latin America and an increase of 4% in combined Europe, Asia and other markets (a 2% decrease on a constant currency basis). Excluding the impact of foreign currency movements, device sales for the year ended June 30, 2021 increased by 3%. Net revenue from masks and other for the year ended June 30, 2021 increased to $1,213.2 million from $1,094.6 million for the year ended June 30, 2020, an increase of 11%, including an increase of 8% in the United States, Canada and Latin America and an increase of 18% in combined Europe, Asia and other markets (an 11% increase on a constant currency basis). Excluding the impact of foreign currency movements, masks and other sales increased by 9%, compared to the year ended June 30, 2020. - 45 - RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Software as a Service Net revenue from our SaaS business for the year ended June 30, 2021 was $373.6 million, compared to $354.6 million for the year ended June 30, 2020, an increase of $19.0 million or 5%. The increase was predominantly due to continued growth in resupply service offerings. Gross Profit and Gross Margin. Gross profit increased for the year ended June 30, 2021 to $1,839.1 million from $1,717.8 million for the year ended June 30, 2020, an increase of $121.3 million or 7%. Gross profit as a percentage of net revenue was 57.5% for the year ended June 30, 2021, compared with the 58.1% for the year ended June 30, 2020. The decrease in gross margin was due primarily to product mix changes, declines in average selling prices and geographic mix changes, partially offset by lower amortization of acquired intangibles. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased for the year ended June 30, 2021 to $670.4 million from $676.7 million for the year ended June 30, 2020, a decrease of $6.3 million or 1%. The selling, general and administrative expenses, as reported in U.S. dollars, were unfavorably impacted by the movement of international currencies against the U.S. dollar, which increased our expenses by approximately $22.4 million. Excluding the impact of foreign currency movements, selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended June 30, 2021 decreased by 4% compared to the year ended June 30, 2020. As a percentage of net revenue, selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended June 30, 2021 improved to 21.0% compared to 22.9% for the year ended June 30, 2020. The constant currency decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily due to decreases in travel and entertainment and bad debt expenses, partially offset by increases in employee-related expenses. Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses increased for the year ended June 30, 2021 to $225.3 million from $201.9 million for the year ended June 30, 2020, an increase of $23.3 million or 12%. The research and development expenses were unfavorably impacted by the movement of international currencies against the U.S. dollar, which increased our expenses by approximately $8.1 million, as reported in U.S. dollars. Excluding the impact of foreign currency movements, research and development expenses for the year ended June 30, 2021 increased by 8% compared to the year ended June 30, 2020. As a percentage of net revenue, research and development expenses were 7.0% for the year ended June 30, 2021 compared to 6.8% for the year ended June 30, 2020. The constant currency increase in research and development expenses was primarily due to increased investment in our digital health technologies and SaaS solutions. Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets. Amortization of acquired intangible assets for the year ended June 30, 2021 totaled $31.1 million compared to $30.1 million for the year ended June 30, 2020. Restructuring Expenses. In November 2020, we closed our POC business, which was part of the Sleep and Respiratory Care segment. During the year ended June 30, 2021, we recognized restructuring expenses of $13.9 million primarily related to inventory write-downs of $5.2 million, accelerated amortization of acquired intangible assets of $5.1 million, asset impairments of $2.3 million, employee-related costs of $0.7 million and contract cancellation costs of $0.6 million. Of the total expense recognized during the year ended June 30, 2021, the inventory write-down of $5.2 million is presented within cost of sales and the remaining $8.7 million in restructuring costs is separately disclosed as restructuring expenses on the consolidated statements of income. We do not expect to incur additional expenses in connection with this activity in the future. Total Other Income (Loss), Net. Total other income (loss), net for the year ended June 30, 2021 was a loss of $20.0 million, compared to a loss of $76.6 million for the year ended June 30, 2020. The decrease was partially due to a decrease in interest expense to $24.0 million for the year ended June 30, 2021 compared to $40.3 million for the year ended June 30, 2020. Additionally, we recognized an unrealized gain of $14.5 million on our marketable and non-marketable securities for the year ended June 30, 2021, whereas during the year ended June 30, 2020, we recorded an impairment of $14.5 million on our non-marketable equity securities. We also recorded lower losses attributable to equity method investments for the year ended June 30, 2021 of $11.2 million compared to $25.1 million for the year ended June 30, 2020. Income Taxes. Our effective income tax rate increased to 46.3% for the year ended June 30, 2021 from 15.2% for the year ended June 30, 2020. The increase in our effective income tax rate was primarily the result of an increase in unrecognized tax benefits as outlined below. Excluding the impact of the unrecognized tax benefit, our effective income tax rate for the year ended June 30, 2021 was 18.2%. The increase in our effective tax rate, excluding the impact of the unrecognized tax benefit, was due to the geographic mix of earnings and lower windfall tax benefits related to the vesting or settlement of employee share-based awards, which reduced our income tax expense by $12.1 million for the year ended June 30, 2021, as compared to $24.8 million for the year ended June 30, 2020. - 46 - RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations We are under audit by the Australian Taxation Office (the “ATO”) for the years 2009 to 2018 (the “Audit Period”). The audits primarily involve a transfer pricing dispute in which the ATO asserts we should have paid additional Australian taxes on income derived from our Singapore operations. The ATO issued Notices of Amended Assessments for the tax years 2009 to 2013 seeking a total of $266.0 million, consisting of $151.7 million in additional income tax and $114.3 million in penalties and interest. The 2014 to 2018 periods are still under audit and we have not yet received any Notices of Amended Assessments relative to those periods. A total of $98.8 million in tax has been prepaid in relation to the Audit Period, which is consistent with ATO procedural audit practice. We are engaged in advanced discussions with the ATO to settle the dispute for the entire Audit Period. Given the stage of those discussions, during the year ended June 30, 2021, we recorded $395.3 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits, including $47.5 million of accrued interest and penalties. This translates to a net amount of $ 248.7 million of net unrecognized tax benefits after taking into account tax credits and deductions of $146.6 million. If the matter were to progress to litigation, we continue to believe we are more likely than not to be successful in defending our position. If we are not successful in litigation, we will be required to pay some or all of the additional income tax, accrued interest and penalties, including potential additional amounts relating to the 2014 to 2018 periods. Our Singapore operations operate under certain tax holidays and tax incentive programs that will expire in whole or in part at various dates through June 30, 2030. Also, as a result of the U.S. Tax Act, we treated all non-U.S. historical earnings as taxable, effective as of the year ended June 30, 2018. Therefore, future repatriation of cash held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries, if any, will generally not be subject to U.S. federal tax. Net Income and Earnings per Share. As a result of the factors above, our net income for the year ended June 30, 2021 was $474.5 million compared to net income of $621.7 million for the year ended June 30, 2020. Our earnings per diluted share for the year ended June 30, 2021 was $3.24 compared to $4.27 for the year ended June 30, 2020, a decrease of 24%. Unrecognized tax benefits as described at note 14 – Income Taxes reduced our diluted earnings per share for the year ended June 30, 2021 by $1.70 per share. Summary of Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP, our management uses certain non-GAAP financial measures, such as non-GAAP revenue, non-GAAP cost of sales, non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP income from operations, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, in evaluating the performance of our business. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures, when reviewed in conjunction with GAAP financial measures, can provide investors better insight when evaluating our performance from core operations and can provide more consistent financial reporting across periods. For these reasons, we use non-GAAP information internally in planning, forecasting, and evaluating the results of operations in the current period and in comparing it to past periods. These non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not superior to or as a substitute for, GAAP financial measures. We strongly encourage investors and shareholders to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure. Non-GAAP financial measures as presented herein may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. The measure “non-GAAP revenue” is equal to GAAP net revenue once adjusted for deferred revenue fair value adjustments applied in the purchase accounting for previous business combinations. The measure “non-GAAP cost of sales” is equal to GAAP cost of sales less amortization of acquired intangible assets relating to cost of sales and restructuring expense associated with inventory write-downs following the closure of the POC business. The measure “non-GAAP gross profit” is the difference between non-GAAP revenue and non-GAAP cost of sales, and “non-GAAP gross margin” is the ratio of non-GAAP gross profit to non-GAAP revenue. - 47 - RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations These non-GAAP measures are reconciled to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures below (in thousands, except percentages): The measure “non-GAAP income from operations” is equal to GAAP income from operations once adjusted for amortization of acquired intangibles, restructuring expense associated with the closure of the POC business, deferred revenue fair value adjustments applied in the purchase accounting for previous business combinations and litigation settlement expenses. Non-GAAP income from operations is reconciled with GAAP income from operations below (in thousands): The measure “non-GAAP net income” is equal to GAAP net income once adjusted for amortization of acquired intangibles (net of tax), reserve for disputed tax positions, restructuring expense associated with the closure of the POC (net of tax), (gain) loss on marketable equity securities, fair value adjustments recognized on non-marketable equity securities, deferred revenue fair value adjustments applied in the purchase accounting for previous business combinations (net of tax) and litigation settlement expenses (net of tax). The measure “non-GAAP diluted earnings per share” is the ratio of non-GAAP net income to diluted shares outstanding. These non-GAAP measures are reconciled to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures below (in thousands, except for per share amounts): - 48 - RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2021 and June 30, 2020, we had cash and cash equivalents of $295.3 million and $463.2 million, respectively. Working capital was $663.0 million and $920.7 million, at June 30, 2021 and June 30, 2020, respectively. As of June 30, 2021 we had $0.7 billion of borrowings under our revolving credit facility, term credit facility and senior notes as compared to $1.2 billion at June 30, 2020. As of June 30, 2021, we had $1.6 billion available for draw down under the revolving credit facility and a combined total of $1.9 billion in cash and available liquidity under the revolving credit facility. We believe that cash generated from operations and available borrowings under our credit facility will be sufficient to fund our operations, including expected capital expenditures, for the next 12 months and beyond. As of June 30, 2021 and June 30, 2020, our cash and cash equivalent balances held within the United States amounted to $106.7 million and $158.8 million, respectively. Our remaining cash and cash equivalent balances at June 30, 2021 and June 30, 2020, of $188.6 million and $304.4 million, respectively, were held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries. Our cash and cash equivalent balances are held at highly rated financial institutions. We repatriated $560.1 million and $400.0 million to the United States during the years ended June 30, 2021 and 2020, respectively, from earnings generated in each of those years. The amount of the current year foreign earnings that we have repatriated to the United States in the past has been determined, and the amount that we expect to repatriate during fiscal year 2022 will be determined, based on a variety of factors, including current year earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, foreign investment needs and the cash flow needs we have in the United States, such as for the repayment of debt, dividend distributions, and other domestic obligations. As a result of the U.S. Tax Act, we treated all non-U.S. historical earnings prior to 2018 as taxable. Therefore, future repatriation of cash held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries will generally not be subject to U.S. federal tax if repatriated, except as discussed in Note 14 –  Income Taxes of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8). Inventories at June 30, 2021 were $457.0 million, an increase of $40.1 or 10% over the balance at June 30, 2020 of $416.9 million. The increase in inventories was required to respond to the increase in unit volumes and the additional complexity and elongation of our supply chain resulting from ongoing COVID-19 impacts. Accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, at June 30, 2021 were $614.3 million, an increase of $139.6 million or 29% over the June 30, 2020 accounts receivable balance of $474.6 million. Accounts receivable days’ sales outstanding of 68 days at June 30, 2021 increased by 3 days compared to 65 days at June 30, 2020. Our allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of total accounts receivable at June 30, 2021 and 2020 was 5.0% and 5.7%, respectively. We recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for all operating leases except those that meet the definition of a short-term lease. As of June 30, 2021 and 2020 our right-of-use assets were $128.6 million and $118.3 million, respectively and our lease liabilities were $138.4 million and $123.1 million, respectively. During the year ended June 30, 2021, we generated cash of $736.7 million from operations compared to $802.3 million for the year ended June 30, 2020. The decrease in cash generated from operations during the year ended June 30, 2021 was primarily due to the increase in working capital balances and income tax payments. Movements in foreign currency exchange rates during the year ended June 30, 2021 had the effect of increasing our cash and cash equivalents by $18.5 million, as reported in U.S. dollars. During the year ended June 30, 2021, we paid $43.5 million associated with business acquisitions, net of cash acquired, compared to $27.9 million during the year ended June 30, 2020. We have temporarily suspended our share repurchase program due to acquisitions, and more recently, as a response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Accordingly, we did not repurchase any shares during the years ended June 30, 2021 and 2020.  In addition, during fiscal years 2021 and 2020, we paid to holders of our common stock dividends totaling $226.7 million and $225.1 million, respectively. - 49 - RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Details of contractual obligations at June 30, 2021 are as follows (in thousands): Details of other commercial commitments at June 30, 2021 are as follows (in thousands): * These guarantees mainly relate to requirements under contractual obligations with insurance companies transacting with our German subsidiaries and guarantees provided under our facility leasing obligations. Refer to Note 17 - Legal Actions, Contingencies and Commitments of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8) for details of our contingent obligations under recourse provisions. Segment Information We have determined that we have two operating segments, which are the Sleep and Respiratory Care segment and the SaaS segment. See Note 15 – Segment Information of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8) for financial information regarding segment reporting.  Financial information about our revenues from and assets located in foreign countries is also included in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. Credit Facility On April 17, 2018, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement, or the Revolving Credit Agreement, as borrower, with lenders MUFG Union Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, joint lead arranger, joint book runner, swing line lender and letter of credit issuer, and Westpac Banking Corporation, as syndication agent, joint lead arranger and joint book runner. The Revolving Credit Agreement, among other things, provided a senior unsecured revolving credit facility of $800.0 million, with an uncommitted option to increase the revolving credit facility by an additional $300.0 million. Additionally, on April 17, 2018, ResMed Limited entered into a syndicated facility agreement, or the Term Credit Agreement, as borrower, with lenders MUFG Union Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, joint lead arranger and joint book runner, and Westpac Banking Corporation, as syndication agent, joint lead arranger and joint book runner. The Term Credit Agreement, among other things, provides ResMed Limited a senior unsecured term credit facility of $200.0 million. On November 5, 2018, we entered into a first amendment to the Revolving Credit Agreement to, among other things, increase the size of our senior unsecured revolving credit facility from $800.0 million to $1.6 billion, with an uncommitted option to increase the revolving credit facility by an additional $300.0 million. Our obligations under the Revolving Credit Agreement are guaranteed by certain of our direct and indirect U.S. subsidiaries, and ResMed Limited’s obligations under the Term Credit Agreement are guaranteed by us and certain of our direct and indirect U.S. subsidiaries. The Revolving Credit Agreement and Term Credit Agreement contain customary covenants, including, in each case, a financial covenant that requires that we maintain a maximum leverage ratio of funded debt to EBITDA (as defined in the Revolving Credit Agreement and Term Credit Agreement, as applicable). The entire principal amounts of the revolving credit facility and term credit facility, and, in each case, any accrued but unpaid interest may be declared immediately due and payable if an event of default occurs, as defined in the Revolving Credit Agreement and the Term Credit Agreement, as applicable. Events of default under the Revolving Credit Agreement and the Term Credit Agreement include, in each case, failure to make payments when due, the occurrence of a default in the performance of any covenants in the respective agreements or related documents, or certain changes of control of us, or the respective guarantors of the obligations borrowed under the Revolving Credit Agreement and Term Credit Agreement. - 50 - RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The Revolving Credit Agreement and Term Credit Agreement each terminate on April 17, 2023, when all unpaid principal and interest under the loans must be repaid. Amounts borrowed under the Term Credit Agreement will also amortize on a semi-annual basis, with a $6.0 million principal payment required on each such semi-annual amortization date. The outstanding principal amounts will bear interest at a rate equal to LIBOR plus 0.75% to 1.50% (depending on the then-applicable leverage ratio) or the Base Rate (as defined in the Revolving Credit Agreement and the Term Credit Agreement, as applicable) plus 0.0% to 0.50% (depending on the then-applicable leverage ratio). At June 30, 2021, the interest rate that was being charged on the outstanding principal amounts was 0.9%.  An applicable commitment fee of 0.100% to 0.175% (depending on the then-applicable leverage ratio) applies on the unused portion of the revolving credit facility. At June 30, 2021, we were in compliance with our debt covenants and there was $158.0 million outstanding under the Revolving Credit Agreement and Term Credit Agreement. Senior Notes On July 10, 2019, we entered into a Note Purchase Agreement with the purchasers to that agreement, in connection with the issuance and sale of $250.0 million principal amount of our 3.24% senior notes due July 10, 2026, and $250.0 million principal amount of our 3.45% senior notes due July 10, 2029. Our obligations under the Note Purchase Agreement and the Notes are unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed by certain of our direct and indirect U.S. subsidiaries, including ResMed Corp., ResMed Motor Technologies Inc., Birdie Inc., Inova Labs, Inc., Brightree LLC, Brightree Home Health & Hospice LLC, Brightree Patient Collections LLC, ResMed Operations Inc., HEALTHCAREfirst Holding Company, HCF Holdco Company, HEALTHCAREfirst, Inc., CareFacts Information Systems, LLC and Lewis Computer Services, LLC, MatrixCare Holdings Inc., MatrixCare, Inc., Reciprocal Labs Corporation and ResMed SaaS Inc., under a Subsidiary Guaranty Agreement dated as of July 10, 2019. The net proceeds from this transaction were used to pay down borrowings on our Revolving Credit Agreement. Under the terms of the Note Purchase Agreement, we agreed to customary covenants including with respect to our corporate existence, transactions with affiliates, and mergers and other extraordinary transactions. We also agreed that, subject to limited exceptions, we will maintain a ratio of consolidated funded debt to consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the Note Purchase Agreement) of no more than 3.50 to 1.00 as of the last day of any fiscal quarter, and will not at any time permit the amount of all secured and unsecured debt of us and our subsidiaries to exceed 10% of our consolidated tangible assets, determined as of the end of our most recently ended fiscal quarter. This ratio is calculated at the end of each reporting period for which the Note Purchase Agreement requires us to deliver financial statements, using the results of the 12 consecutive month period ending with such reporting period. On June 30, 2021, we were in compliance with our debt covenants and there was a total of $658.0 million outstanding under the Revolving Credit Agreement, Term Credit Agreement and Senior Notes. We expect to satisfy all of our liquidity and long-term debt requirements through a combination of cash on hand, cash generated from operations and undrawn debt facilities. Critical Accounting Principles and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect our reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis we evaluate our estimates, including those related to allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory reserves, warranty obligations, goodwill, potentially impaired assets, intangible assets, income taxes and contingencies. We state these accounting policies in the notes to the financial statements and at relevant sections in this discussion and analysis. The estimates are based on the information that is currently available to us and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could vary from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe that the following critical accounting policies affect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements: - 51 - RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (1)  Valuation of Goodwill, Intangible and Other Long-Lived Assets. We make assumptions in establishing the carrying value, fair value and estimated lives of our goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets. Our goodwill impairment tests are performed at our reporting unit level, which is one level below our operating segments. The criteria used for these evaluations include management’s estimate of the asset’s continuing ability to generate positive income from operations and positive cash flow in future periods compared to the carrying value of the asset, as well as the strategic significance of any identifiable intangible asset in our business objectives. If assets are considered to be impaired, we recognize as impairment the amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds their fair value, and for goodwill is limited to the value of goodwill allocated to the impaired reporting unit, as described in Step 1 below. Factors that would influence the likelihood of a material change in our reported results include significant changes in the asset’s ability to generate positive cash flow, loss of legal ownership or title to the asset, a significant decline in the economic and competitive environment on which the asset depends, significant changes in our strategic business objectives, utilization of the asset, and a significant change in the economic and/or political conditions in certain countries. We conduct an annual review for goodwill impairment at our reporting unit level based on the following steps: Step 0 or Qualitative assessment – Evaluate qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill. The factors we consider include, but are not limited to, macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, overall financial performance or events-specific to that reporting unit. If or when we determine it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than the carrying amount, including goodwill, we would move to Step 1 of the quantitative method. Step 1 – Compare the fair value for each reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. Fair value is determined based on estimated discounted cash flows. A goodwill impairment charge is recognized for the amount that the carrying amount of a reporting unit, including goodwill, exceeds its fair value, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. If a reporting unit’s fair value exceeds the carrying value, no further work is performed and no impairment charge is necessary. (2)  Income Tax. We assess our income tax positions and record tax benefits for all years subject to audit based upon management’s evaluation of the facts, circumstances and information available at the reporting date.  If we determine that it is not more likely than not that we would be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to income tax expense in the period such determination is made. Alternatively, if we determine that it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax assets would be realized, any previously provided valuation allowance is reversed. These changes to the valuation allowance and resulting increases or decreases in income tax expense may have a material effect on our operating results. Our income tax returns are based on calculations and assumptions subject to audit by various tax authorities. In addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on a two-step process. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. While we believe we have appropriate support for the positions taken on our tax returns, we regularly assess the potential outcomes of examinations by tax authorities in determining the adequacy of our provision for income taxes.  Based on our regular assessment, we may adjust the income tax provision and deferred taxes in the period in which the facts that give rise to a revision become known. We are under audit by the Australian Taxation Office (the “ATO”) for the years 2009 to 2018 (the “Audit Period”). The audits primarily involve a transfer pricing dispute in which the ATO asserts we should have paid additional Australian taxes on income derived from our Singapore operations. The ATO issued Notices of Amended Assessments for the tax years 2009 to 2013 seeking a total of $266.0 million, consisting of $151.7 million in additional income tax and $114.3 million in penalties and interest. The 2014 to 2018 periods are still under audit and we have not yet received any Notices of Amended Assessments relative to those periods. A total of $98.8 million in tax has been prepaid in relation to the Audit Period, which is consistent with ATO procedural audit practice. We are engaged in advanced discussions with the ATO to settle the dispute for the entire Audit Period. Given the stage of those discussions, during the year ended June 30, 2021, we recorded $395.3 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits, including $47.5 million of accrued interest and penalties. This amount reflects our estimate of the potential tax liability and is subject to change. Included in the balance of uncertain tax positions as of June 30, 2021 were $248.7 million of net unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would reduce the effective income tax rate in future periods. This amount represents the $395.3 million of gross unrecognized tax, adjusted for tax credits and deductions of $146.6 million. - 52 - RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations If the matter were to progress to litigation, we continue to believe we are more likely than not to be successful in defending our position. If we are not successful in litigation, we will be required to pay some or all of the additional income tax, accrued interest and penalties, including potential additional amounts relating to the 2014 to 2018 periods. The timing and resolution of the ATO audits are inherently uncertain, and the amounts we might ultimately pay or receive in credits and deductions, if any, upon resolution of issues raised by the ATO may differ materially from the amounts accrued. Although it is expected that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits may change in the next 12 months, an estimate of the range of the possible change cannot be made. Outside the ATO audit describe above, tax years 2017 to 2020 remain subject to future examination by the major tax jurisdictions in which we are subject to tax. (3)  Revenue Recognition. We have determined that we have two operating segments, which are the sleep and respiratory disorders sector of the medical device industry (“Sleep and Respiratory Care”) and the supply of business management software as a service to out-of-hospital health providers (“SaaS”). For products in our Sleep and Respiratory Care business, we transfer control and recognize a sale when products are shipped to the customer in accordance with the contractual shipping terms. For our SaaS business, revenue associated with professional services are recognized as they are provided. We defer the recognition of a portion of the consideration received when performance obligations are not yet satisfied. Consideration received from customers in advance of revenue recognition is classified as deferred revenue. Performance obligations resulting in deferred revenue in our Sleep and Respiratory Care business relate primarily to extended warranties on our devices and the provision of data for patient monitoring. Performance obligations resulting in deferred revenue in our SaaS business relate primarily to the provision of software access with maintenance and support over an agreed term and material rights associated with future discounts upon renewal of some SaaS contracts. Generally, deferred revenue will be recognized over a period of one to five years. Our contracts do not contain significant financing components. Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration we expect to receive in exchange for transferring goods or providing services. In our Sleep and Respiratory Care business, the amount of consideration received and revenue recognized varies with changes in marketing incentives (e.g., rebates, discounts, free goods) and returns offered to customers. In accounting for these rebate programs, we reduce revenue ratably as sales occur over the rebate period by the expected value of the rebates to be returned to the customer. We also recognize discount on products as a reduction to revenue when control is transferred. We adjust the estimate of revenue for the impact of returned items at the earlier of when the most likely amount of consideration can be estimated, the amount expected to be received changes, or when the consideration becomes fixed. However, returns of products, excluding warranty-related returns, are infrequent and insignificant. When Sleep and Respiratory Care or SaaS contracts have multiple performance obligations, we generally use an observable price to determine the stand-alone selling price by reference to pricing and discounting practices for the specific product or service when sold separately to similar customers. Revenue is then allocated proportionately, based on the determined stand-alone selling price, to each performance obligation. An allocation is not required for many of our Sleep and Respiratory Care contracts that have a single performance obligation, which is the shipment of our therapy-based equipment. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements See Note 3 – New Accounting Pronouncements of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8) for a description of recently issued accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on our results of operations, financial positions and cash flows. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of June 30, 2021, we are not involved in any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC. - 53 - RESMED INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market and Business Risks