********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

An investment in our common stock involves certain risks. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You are cautioned that the risk factors discussed below are not exhaustive. Risks Related to our Business, Brand, Industry and Operations We face risks regarding our ability to maintain our competitive position in the pest control industry in the future. We operate in a highly competitive industry. Our revenues and earnings are affected by changes in competitors’ prices and general economic issues. We compete with other large pest control companies, as well as numerous smaller pest control companies, for a finite number of customers. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the market areas that we serve are quality of service, customer proximity, terms of guarantees, reputation for safety, technical proficiency and price. Although we believe that our experience and reputation for safety and quality service are excellent, we cannot assure investors that we will be able to maintain our competitive position in the future and any competitive pressures we may face could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to identify, complete or successfully integrate acquisitions or guarantee that any acquisitions will achieve the anticipated financial benefits, all of which could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions have been and may continue to be an important element of our business strategy. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to identify and acquire acceptable acquisition candidates on terms favorable to us in the future, or that any acquisitions will achieve the anticipated financial benefits. Our inability to achieve the anticipated financial benefits from any acquisition transactions may not be realized due to any number of factors, including, but not limited to, unsuccessful integration efforts, unexpected or underestimated liabilities or increased costs, fees, expenses and charges related to such transactions. Such adverse events could result in a decrease in the estimated fair value of goodwill or other intangible assets established as a result of such transactions, triggering an impairment. These and other factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Expanding into international markets presents unique challenges, and our expansion efforts with respect to international operations may not be successful. An element of our strategy includes further expansion into international markets. Our ability to successfully operate in international markets may be adversely affected by political, economic and social conditions beyond our control, local laws and customs, and legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with applicable anti-corruption and currency laws and regulations of the countries or regions in which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. Risks inherent in our existing and future international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, difficulties in identifying and gaining access to local suppliers, suffering possible adverse tax consequences from changes in tax laws or the unfavorable resolution of tax assessments or audits, maintaining product quality and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. Additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our financial results. Our business depends on our strong brands and failing to maintain and enhance our brands and develop a positive client reputation could hurt our ability to retain and expand our base of customers. 9 ​ Our strong brands, Rollins, Orkin, HomeTeam, Clark Pest Control, Western, Northwest Exterminating, Trutech, Critter Control, IFC, Waltham, and others have significantly contributed to the success of our business.  Maintaining and enhancing our brands increases our ability to enter new markets and launch new and innovative services that better serve the needs of our customers.  Our brands may be negatively impacted by a number of factors, including, among others, reputational issues and product/technical failures.  Further, if our brands are significantly damaged, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.  We continue to develop strategies and innovative tools to gain a deeper understanding of customer acquisition and retention in order to more effectively expand and retain our customer base. Maintaining and enhancing our brands will depend largely on our ability to remain a service leader and continue to provide high-quality pest control services that are truly beneficial and play a meaningful role in people’s lives. Our franchisees, subcontractors, and vendors could take actions that could harm our business. Our franchisees, subcontractors, and vendors are contractually obligated to operate their businesses in accordance with the standards set forth in our agreements with them and applicable laws and regulations. Each of our brands that are franchised also provides training and support to franchisees. However, franchisees, subcontractors, and vendors are independent third parties that we do not control, and who own, operate and oversee the daily operations of their businesses, and the ultimate success of any business operation rests with the business owner. If franchisees do not successfully operate their businesses in a manner consistent with required standards, royalty payments owed to us will be adversely affected and our brands’ image and reputation could be harmed. This could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Similarly, if franchisees, subcontractors, and vendors do not successfully operate their businesses in a manner consistent with required laws, standards and regulations, we could be subject to claims from regulators or legal claims for the actions or omissions of such third-party franchisees, subcontractors, and vendors. In addition, our relationship with our franchisees, subcontractors, and vendors could become strained (including resulting in litigation) as we impose new standards or assert more rigorous enforcement practices of the existing required standards. These strains in our relationships or any resulting claims could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. From time to time, we receive communications from our franchisees regarding complaints, disputes or questions about our practices and standards in relation to our franchised operations and certain economic terms of our franchise arrangements. If franchisees or groups representing franchisees were to bring legal proceedings against us, our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Labor shortages and/or our ability to attract and retain skilled workers may impair growth potential and profitability. Our ability to remain productive and profitable will depend substantially on our ability to attract and retain skilled workers, create leadership opportunities and successfully implement diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives. Our ability to expand our operations is in part impacted by our ability to increase our labor force. The demand for employees is high, and the supply is limited. COVID-19 has exacerbated labor shortages and the enforcement of COVID-19 mandates may result in additional labor shortages which could negatively affect our ability to efficiently operate at full capacity or lead to increased costs, such as increased overtime to meet demand and increased wage rates to attract and retain employees. A significant increase in the wages paid and benefits offered by competing employers could also result in a reduction in our labor force, increases in our labor costs, or both. Prolonged labor shortages, increased turnover or labor inflation could diminish our profitability and impair our growth potential which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Climate change and unfavorable weather conditions could adversely impact our financial results. Our operations are directly impacted by the weather conditions worldwide, including catastrophic events, natural disasters and potential impacts from climate change. Climate change continues to receive increasing global attention. The possible effects of climate change could include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing storm patterns and intensities, changing temperature levels and changes in legislation, regulation, and international accords, all of which could adversely impact our costs and business operations. The business of our Company is also affected by seasonality associated with our pest and termite control services. The increase in pest presence and activity, as well as the metamorphosis of termites in the spring and summer (the occurrence of which is determined by the timing of the change in seasons), has historically resulted in an increase in the revenue and income of our pest and termite control operations during such periods. The business of the Company is also affected by extreme weather such as drought which can greatly reduce the pest population for extended periods. Because of the uncertainty of weather volatility related to climate change and any 10 ​ resulting unfavorable weather conditions, we cannot predict its potential impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to the Global Economy and Public Health Crises Our business, results of operations and financial condition are impacted by the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and the restrictions put in place in connection therewith. We have responded and continue to respond to the global outbreak of COVID-19 by taking steps to mitigate the potential risks posed to us by its spread and the impact of the restrictions put in place by the local, state and federal governments to protect the population. We continue to execute our comprehensive set of protocols for the health and safety of our employees, customers, and business partners, such as wearing masks, gloves, and other personal protective equipment, social distancing and utilizing electronic documents, among others. However, due to the unprecedented uncertainty surrounding the duration of COVID-19, COVID-19 variants, rapidly changing governmental directives, public health challenges and progress, macroeconomic consequences, and market reactions thereto, we are not able at this time to predict the extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition, and it continues to be challenging for our management to estimate the future performance of our business and develop strategies to generate growth or achieve our objectives for 2022 and beyond. In September 2021, the federal government issued an executive order requiring United States based employees, contractors, and subcontractors that work on or in support of United States government contracts, to be fully vaccinated by January 4, 2022, and it only permits limited exceptions for medical and religious reasons (the “COVID-19 Executive Order”). On December 7, 2021, the United States District Court for the Southern District of Georgia issued a preliminary nationwide injunction enjoining the enforcement of the COVID-19 Executive Order.  The government appealed the order to the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit and briefing is due to the Eleventh Circuit by April 4, 2022. As a result of the COVID-19 Executive Order, we may be forced to terminate relationships with various United States government agencies we provide services to. Furthermore, certain customers have issued vaccine requirements with respect to our technicians who provide on-site services at our commercial customer’s facilities. The COVID-19 Executive Order along with any customer-specific mandates or rules could result in labor shortages as well as difficulty securing future labor needs, which could impact our ability to provide services to our customers, potentially resulting in material adverse impacts to our reputation, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Adverse economic conditions, including inflation and restrictions in customer discretionary expenditures, disruptions in credit or financial markets, increases in fuel prices, raw material costs, or other operating costs could materially adversely affect our business. Economic downturns may adversely affect our commercial customers, including food service, hospitality and food processing industries whose business levels are particularly sensitive to adverse economies. For example, we may lose commercial customers and related revenues because of consolidation or cessation of commercial businesses or because these businesses switch to a lower cost provider.  Pest and termite services represent discretionary expenditures to many of our residential customers. If consumers restrict their discretionary expenditures, due to inflation or other economic hardships, we may suffer a decline in revenues from our residential service lines. Disruptions in credit or financial markets could make it more difficult for us to obtain, or increase the cost of obtaining, financing in the future. In addition, there can be no assurances that fuel prices, raw material costs, or other operating costs, all of which may be subject to inflationary pressures, will not materially increase in future years and we cannot predict the extent to which any such future increases could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 11 ​ Risks Related to Cybersecurity, Privacy Compliance and Business Disruptions The Company, its wholly-owned subsidiaries, third-party business partners and service providers have been subject to cybersecurity incidents in the past and could be the targets of future attacks which could result in the disruption to the Company’s business operations, economic and reputational damage, and possible fines, penalties and private litigation, if there is unauthorized access to or unintentional distribution of personal, financial, proprietary, confidential, or other protected data or information the Company is entrusted to keep about its customers, employees, business practices, or third parties. Our internal information technology (“IT”) systems contain certain personal, financial, health, or other protected and confidential information that is entrusted to us by our customers and employees.  Our IT systems also contain the Company’s and its wholly-owned subsidiaries’ proprietary and other confidential information related to our business, such as business plans, customer lists and product and service development initiatives. From time to time, we have integration with new IT systems due to organic growth and acquisitions. In addition, we grant third-party business partners and service providers access to confidential information in order to facilitate business operations and administer employee benefits.  Employees, third-party business partners, and service providers can knowingly or unknowingly disseminate such information or serve as an entry point for bad actors to access such information. For example, in October 2021, one of our third-party information technology Managed Service Providers (“MSP”) was the target of a cybersecurity incident (the “Incident”) resulting in the shutdown of our third-party Customer Relationship Management software used by certain subsidiaries whose aggregate annual revenues comprise less than 11% of our total revenues. There was no known material day-to-day impact to our ability to provide normal service to customers and there was no known indication that the information of our customers or employees was compromised as a result of the Incident. The Incident did not have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operation or financial condition; however, we may continue to be the target of further cybersecurity incidents that could possibly have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operation or financial condition. We are also subject to risks associated with attacks involving our supply chain, such as the vulnerabilities of IT infrastructure management software provided by SolarWinds Corporation. During 2021, we have observed an increase in ransomware attacks in our supply chain. In December 2021, a vulnerability named “Log4Shell” was reported for the widely used Java logging library, ApacheLog4j2. We have reviewed the use of this library within our software product portfolio and in our IT environment and have taken steps to mitigate the vulnerability; however, there can be no assurances that other similar vulnerabilities or cybersecurity incidents may not occur in the future or may not have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operation or financial condition. Our privacy compliance and digital risk management initiatives focus on the threats and risks to enterprise information and the underlying IT systems processing such information as part of the implementation of business processes.  The Company also relies on, among other things, commercially available vendors, cybersecurity protection systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of protected information and data. The systems currently used for transmission and approval of payment card transactions, and the technology utilized in payment cards themselves, all of which can put payment card data at risk, meet standards set by the payment card industry (“PCI”). We have also implemented policies and procedures, internal training, system controls, and monitoring and audit processes to protect the Company from internal and external vulnerabilities and to comply with consumer privacy laws in the areas in which we operate.  Further, the Company limits retention of certain data, encrypts certain data and otherwise protects information to comply with consumer privacy laws in the areas in which we operate. We continue to evaluate and modify our systems and protocols for data security compliance purposes, and such standards may change from time to time. We monitor certain third-party business partners and service providers for compliance and vulnerabilities.  Activities by bad actors, changes in computer and software capabilities and encryption technology, new tools and discoveries, cloud applications, changes in multi-jurisdictional regulations, and other events or developments may result in a compromise or breach of our systems. Any compromises, breaches, application errors or human mistakes related to our systems or failures to comply with applicable standards could not only disrupt our financial operations, including our customers’ ability to pay for our services and products by credit card or their willingness to purchase our services and products, but could also result in violations of applicable laws, regulations, orders, industry standards or agreements and subject us to costs, penalties and liabilities which could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A breach of data security or failure to comply with rigorous multi-jurisdictional consumer privacy requirements could expose us to customer litigation, regulatory actions and costs related to the reporting and handling of such a violation or breach. Furthermore, while we maintain cybersecurity insurance, our insurance may not cover all 12 ​ liabilities incurred due to a security breach or incident and this could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Certain Intellectual Property Rights Our brand recognition could be impacted if we are not able to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights that are material to our business. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on our rights to service marks, trademarks, trade names and other intellectual property rights we own or license, particularly our registered brand names and service marks, Orkin®, Orkin Canada®, HomeTeam Pest Defense®, TAEXX®, Clark Pest Control®, Western Pest Services®, Northwest Exterminating®, Critter Control®, IFC®, Trutech®, Waltham Pest Services®, OPC Services®, Perma Treat Pest and Termite Control®, Crane Pest Control®, Murray Pest Control®, Allpest®, Statewide Pest Control®, Safeguard the Pest Control People®, Aardwolf Pestkare®, Adams Pest Control™, McCall® and others. Although we have sought to register or protect many of our marks either in the United States or in the countries in which they are or may be used, we have not sought to protect our marks in every country. Furthermore, because of the differences in foreign trademark, patent and other intellectual property or proprietary rights laws, we may not receive the same protection in other countries as we would in the United States. If we are unable to protect our proprietary information and brand names, we could suffer a material adverse effect to our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and protect our proprietary information, or to defend against claims by third parties that our products, services or activities infringe their intellectual property rights. Risks Related to Legal, Regulatory and Risk Management Matters We are from time to time subject to lawsuits, investigations and other proceedings which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and our operations may be adversely affected if we fail to comply with applicable law or other governmental regulations, including environmental and other regulations relating to the pest control industry. In the normal course of business, we are involved in various claims, contractual disputes, investigations, arbitrations and litigation, including claims that our acts, omissions, services or vehicles caused damage or injury, claims that our services did not achieve the desired results, claims related to acquisitions, allegations by federal, state or local authorities, including the SEC, of violations of regulations or statutes, claims related to wage and hour law violations and claims related to environmental matters.  These claims, proceedings or litigation, either alone or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Additionally, our business is significantly affected by and subject to regulation by various federal, state, provincial, regional and local governments in the countries in which we operate, including, but not limited to, environmental laws, antitrust laws, consumer protection laws, employment laws, including wage and hour laws, payroll taxes and anti-discrimination laws, immigration, human health and safety laws and other regulations relating to the pest control industry. We are unable to predict whether such laws will, in the future, materially affect our operations and financial condition or whether any changes will require us to incur substantial increases in costs in order to comply with such changes. Penalties for noncompliance with these laws may include investigations, criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including, but not limited to, cancellation of licenses, fines, and other corrective actions, which could negatively affect our reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 13 ​ The ongoing SEC investigation and any potential related litigation entail risks and uncertainties. As we previously disclosed, the SEC is conducting an investigation (the “SEC Investigation”).  We believe the SEC Investigation is primarily focused on how the Company established accruals and reserves at period-ends for periods beginning January 1, 2016 through December 31, 2018 and the impact of those accruals and reserves on reported earnings per share, specifically, in the first quarter of 2016 and the second quarter of 2017.  The Company is in ongoing discussions with the SEC staff regarding a potential resolution of the SEC Investigation.  In light of the foregoing, in accordance with the accounting guidance in ASC 450, “Contingencies,” the Company recorded an accrual for $8.0 million related to the SEC Investigation in the third and fourth quarters of 2021, which is reflected in other current liabilities in our consolidated statements of financial position.  The ultimate amount of any liability related to the potential resolution of the SEC Investigation could be different from the $8.0 million accrued as of December 31, 2021.  The Company will continue to cooperate with the SEC in working towards a final resolution of the SEC Investigation.  As we previously reported during the third quarter of 2021, the Audit Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors initiated a related, supplemental internal investigation. This supplemental investigation was concluded in the fourth quarter of 2021.  The Company believes that no restatement of its prior period financial statements will be required as a result of the SEC Investigation or matters related thereto. There can be no assurance that the SEC or another regulatory body will not make further regulatory inquiries or pursue action against the Company and its directors or senior officers that could result in potentially significant sanctions and penalties, or that could require the Company to take additional remedial steps, which could include revising or restating portions of our historical net income and earnings per share for the impacted quarterly periods.  Potential sanctions against the Company and/or individuals include penalties, injunctions, and cease-and-desist orders. In addition, the Company and its current or former senior officers and directors may be subject to litigation, including by the Company’s stockholders, related to the matters under review by the SEC.  Accordingly, the SEC investigation and any potential related litigation in connection with the SEC Investigation entail risks and uncertainties the outcome of which could materially adversely affect our reputation, results of operations, financial position and liquidity, and stock price. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all significant risk exposures. We are exposed to liabilities that are unique to our business and the services we provide. We maintain commercial liability insurance that extends to products liability. In addition, we also maintain other insurance and other traditional risk transfer tools to respond to certain types of liabilities and risks.  However, such tools are subject to terms such as deductibles, retentions, limits and policy exclusions, as well as risk of denial of coverage, default or insolvency. If we suffer unexpected or uncovered losses, or if any of our insurance policies are terminated for any reason or are not effective in mitigating our risks, we may incur losses that are not covered or that exceed our coverage limits which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. In addition, there can be no assurance that the types or levels of coverage maintained are adequate to cover these potential significant and catastrophic risks. Further, we may not be able to continue to maintain our existing insurance coverage or obtain comparable or additional insurance coverage at a reasonable cost in the event a significant product or service claim arises. Our safety and risk management programs may not have the intended effect of reducing our liability for employee-work related injuries, third party-liability claims or property loss. Our safety management system and performance measures are critical to our reputation. Many of our customers require that we meet certain safety criteria to be eligible to provide service and bid for contracts, and many contracts provide for automatic termination or forfeiture of some or all of our contract fees or profit in the event we fail to meet certain measures. Accordingly, if we fail to maintain adequate safety standards, we could experience reduced profitability or the loss of projects or clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. We attempt to mitigate risks relating to employee work-related injuries, third-party liability, or property loss through the implementation of company-wide safety management programs designed to focus on prevention and decrease the occurrence of accidents or events that may occur. It is expected that any such decreases could also have the effect of stabilizing or reducing our insurance costs. However, incidents involving injury or property loss may be caused by multiple potential factors, a significant number of which are beyond our control. Therefore, there is no guarantee that our safety and risk management and safety programs will have the desired effect of avoiding or controlling all potential expenses and liability exposure. ​ 14 ​ Risks Related to our Capital and Ownership Structure The Company’s management has a substantial ownership interest; public stockholders may have no effective voice in the Company’s management. The Company has elected the “Controlled Company” exemption under Section 303A of the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) Listed Company Manual. The Company is a “Controlled Company” because a group that includes the Company’s Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Gary W. Rollins, and certain companies under his control (the “Controlling Group”), controls in excess of fifty percent of the Company’s voting power. As a “Controlled Company,” the Company need not comply with certain NYSE rules, including, without limitation, the requirements that the Company have a majority of independent directors, and an independent compensation and nominating committee of the Board. Rollins, Inc.’s executive officers, directors and their affiliates hold directly, or through indirect beneficial ownership, in the aggregate, approximately 53 percent of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock as of December 31, 2021. As a result, these persons will effectively control the operations of the Company, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions such as acquisitions and approval of matters requiring stockholder approval. This concentration of ownership could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control of the Company at a premium. Our management has a substantial ownership interest, and the availability of the Company’s common stock to the investing public may be limited. The availability of Rollins’ common stock to the investing public is limited to those shares not held by the executive officers, directors and their affiliates, which could negatively impact Rollins’ stock trading prices and affect the ability of minority stockholders to sell their shares. Future sales by executive officers, directors and their affiliates of all or a portion of their shares could also negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. The Controlling Group could take various actions or engage in certain transactions that could negatively impact our common stock price, cause volatility in the market for our common stock or have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and our financial condition. The Controlling Group may from time to time and at any time, in their sole discretion, acquire or cause to be acquired, additional equity or other instruments of the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates, or derivative instruments the value of which is linked to Company securities, or dispose or cause to be disposed, such equity or other securities or instruments, in any amount that the Controlling Group may determine in their sole discretion, through open market transactions, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. In addition, depending upon a variety of factors, the Controlling Group may at any time engage in discussions with the Company and its affiliates, and other persons, including retained outside advisers, concerning the Company’s business, management, strategic alternatives and direction, and in their sole discretion, consider, formulate and implement various plans or proposals intended to enhance the value of their investment in the Company, including, among other things, proposing or effecting any matter that would constitute or result in: (i) the acquisition by any person of additional securities of the Company or the disposition of securities of the Company, in addition to the possible normal course dissolution of additional entities for estate or tax planning purposes; (ii) an extraordinary corporate transaction, such as a merger, reorganization or liquidation, involving the Company or any subsidiary thereof; (iii) a sale or transfer of a material amount of assets of the Company or any subsidiary thereof; (iv) a change in the present board of directors or management of the Company, including any plans or proposals to change the number or term of directors or to fill any existing vacancies on the board; (v) a material change in the present capitalization or dividend policy of the Company; (vi)  other material changes in the Company’s business or corporate structure; (vii) changes in the Company’s charter, bylaws, or instruments corresponding thereto, or other actions which may impede the acquisition of control of the Company by any person; (viii) causing a class of securities of the Company to be delisted from a national securities exchange or to cease to be authorized to be quoted in an inter-dealer quotation system of a registered national securities association; or (ix) a class of equity securities of the Company becoming eligible for termination of registration pursuant to Section 12(g)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In the event the Controlling Group were to engage in any of the actions enumerated above, our common stock price could be negatively impacted, such actions could cause volatility in the market for our common stock or could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition. 15 ​ Certain provisions in Rollins, Inc.’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws may inhibit a takeover of the Company. Rollins, Inc.’s certificate of incorporation, bylaws and other documents contain provisions including advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and staggered terms for the Board of Directors. These provisions may make a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by the Company’s Board of Directors more difficult or expensive. ​

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Presentation This discussion should be read in conjunction with our audited financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this document. Discussions of 2019 items and year-to-year comparisons of 2020 and 2019 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 on our Annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. The following discussion (as well as other discussions in this document) contains forward-looking statements. Please see “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” for a discussion of uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these statements. The Company Rollins, Inc. (“Rollins,” “we,” “us,” “our,” or the “Company”), is an international services company headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia that provides pest and termite control services to both residential and commercial customers through its wholly-owned subsidiaries and independent franchises in the United States, Canada, Australia, Europe, and Asia with international franchises in Canada, Central and South America, the Caribbean, Europe, the Middle East, Asia, Africa, and Australia. Our pest and termite control services are performed pursuant to terms of contracts that specify the pricing arrangement with the customer. The Company operates as one reportable segment and the results of operations and its financial condition are not reliant upon any single customer. ​ General Operating Comments 2021 marked the Company’s 24th consecutive year of increased revenues. Revenues for the year rose 12.2% percent to $2.4 billion compared to $2.2 billion for the prior year. Income before income taxes increased 33.9% to $474.8 million compared to $354.7 million the prior year. Net income increased 34.5% to $350.7 million, with earnings per diluted share of $0.71 compared to $260.8 million, or $0.53 per diluted share for the prior year. The Company has continued to increase dividends to investors with $0.42 per diluted share paid in 2021 as compared to $0.33 per diluted share for the prior year, resulting in a 27% increase in dividends per share. In 2020, the dividend was reduced due to the uncertainty surrounding the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic (“COVID-19”) to our business. Cybersecurity Incident In October 2021, a third-party information technology Managed Service Provider (“MSP”) of the Company was the target of a cybersecurity incident (the “Incident”) resulting in the shutdown of the Company’s third-party Customer Relationship Management software used by certain of our subsidiaries whose aggregate annual revenues comprise less than 11% of our total revenues. Upon notice of the Incident from the MSP, the Company immediately initiated its incident response protocols. There was no known material day-to-day impact to our ability to provide normal service to customers and there was no known indication that the information of our customers or employees was compromised as a result of the Incident. The Incident did not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation or financial condition; however, we may continue to be the target of further cybersecurity incidents that could possibly have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operation or financial condition. More information about our cybersecurity risks is discussed under Item 1A., “Risk Factors,” of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. COVID-19 The global spread and unprecedented impact of the COVID-19 pandemic (“COVID-19”) continues to create significant volatility, uncertainty and economic disruption around the world. In 2020, the pest control industry was designated as “essential” by the Department of Homeland Security. The Company has been able to remain operational in every part of the world in which it operates. With the availability of vaccinations, many COVID-19 restrictions have been lifted; however, public hesitancy regarding the vaccinations and the continued spread of COVID-19, may result in additional restrictions and mandates being imposed. The situation related to COVID-19 continues to be complex and dynamic. We cannot reasonably estimate the duration of the pandemic or fully ascertain its impact to 19 ​ our future results. We will continue to actively monitor the rapidly evolving situation related to COVID-19 and may take actions that may alter our operations, including those that may be required by federal, state, or local authorities, or that we determine are in the best interests of our employees, customers and communities. We do not know when, or if, it will become practical to relax or eliminate some or all of these measures entirely as there is no guarantee that COVID-19 will be fully contained. The Company’s consolidated financial statements reflect estimates and assumptions made by management that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and related disclosures as of the date of the consolidated financial statements. The Company considered the impact of COVID-19 on the assumptions and estimates used in preparing the consolidated financial statements. In the opinion of management, all adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial results for the year have been made. These adjustments are of a normal recurring nature but complicated by the uncertainty surrounding the global economic impact of COVID-19. The results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2021 are not necessarily indicative of results for future years. The severity, magnitude and duration, as well as the economic consequences of COVID-19, are uncertain, rapidly changing and difficult to predict. Therefore, our accounting estimates and assumptions may change over time in response to COVID-19 and may change materially in future periods. ​ 20 ​ Results of Operations—2021 Versus 2020 ​ Revenues Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2021 were $2.4 billion, an increase of $263.1 million, or 12.2%, from 2020 revenues of $2.2 billion. Comparing 2021 to 2020, residential pest control revenue increased 13%, commercial pest control revenue increased 10% and termite and ancillary services grew 14%. The Company’s revenue mix for the year ended December 31, 2021 consisted primarily of 46% residential pest control, 34% commercial pest control and 20% termite and ancillary revenues (such as moisture control, insulation, deck and gutter work). The Company’s foreign operations accounted for approximately 8% and 7% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Cost of Services Provided For the twelve months ended December 31, 2021, cost of services provided increased $114.0 million, or 10.9%, compared to the twelve months ended December 31, 2020. The increase was driven by increased people costs and materials and supplies due to the increase in revenues. Additionally, fleet costs increased mainly driven by an increase in fuel costs. Sales, General and Administrative For the twelve months ended December 31, 2021, sales, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased $71.3 million, or 10.9%, compared to the twelve months ended December 31, 2020. The increases were driven by increased people costs mostly due to sales personnel, directly related to our increase in revenues. Additionally, SG&A increased due to the accrual related to the potential settlement of the ongoing SEC matter of $8.0 million, increased advertising costs and the charitable donation of certain excess personal protection equipment. Depreciation and Amortization For the twelve months ended December 31, 2021, depreciation and amortization increased $5.9 million, or 6.7%, compared to the twelve months ended December 31, 2020. The increase was due to the additional amortization of customer contracts from several acquisitions. 21 ​ Other (Income) Expense During the twelve months ended December 31, 2021, other income increased $44.0 million primarily due to the Company recognizing a gain of $35.7 million compared to a loss of $1.6 million in the prior year. The current year gain is primarily related to multiple sale-leaseback transactions where the Company sold and leased back properties that it acquired in 2019 with the Clark Pest Control acquisition. Additionally, 2020 included $6.7 million of accelerated stock compensation vesting expense that did not occur in 2021. Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 was $0.8 million and $5.1 million respectively. The decrease was primarily driven by the lower average debt balance in 2021 compared to the same period in 2020. Income Taxes The Company’s effective tax rate decreased to 26.1% in 2021 compared to 26.5% in 2020. The rate is lower in the current year due to a net increase in beneficial deductions, driven by an increase in the portion of officer’s compensation deductions that were allowable. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash and Cash Flow Cash from operating activities is the principal source of cash generation for our businesses. The most significant source of cash in our cash flow from operations is customer-related activities, the largest of which is collecting cash resulting from services sold. The most significant operating use of cash is to pay our suppliers, employees, tax authorities and others for a wide range of material and services. The Company’s cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2021, and 2020 were $105.3 million and $98.5 million, respectively. ​ Cash Provided by Operating Activities The Company’s operations generated cash of $401.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily from net income of $350.7 million, compared with cash provided by operating activities of $435.8 million in 2020. During 2021, the Company paid the employer-only payroll taxes that were deferred under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the “CARES” Act) which was signed into law on March 27, 2020. The CARES Act tax deferrals in 2020 and payments in 2021 are the primary drivers for the decline in net cash from operating activities in 2021. The Company believes its current cash and cash equivalents balances, future cash flows expected to be generated from operating activities, and available borrowings under its $175 million revolving credit facility and $250 million term loan facility, (which was amended in January 2022 to $300 million) will be sufficient to finance its current operations and obligations, and fund expansion of the business for the foreseeable future. Cash Used in Investing Activities The Company used $99.0 million in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 and used $162.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. The Company invested approximately $27.2 million in capital expenditures during 2021 compared to $23.2 million during 2020. Capital expenditures for the year consisted primarily of property purchases, equipment replacements and technology-related projects. The Company expects to invest between $25.0 million and $35.0 million in 2022 in capital expenditures. 22 ​ Cash paid for acquisitions totaled $146.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to $147.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. The expenditures for the Company’s acquisitions were funded through existing cash balances, borrowings on our line of credit, a term loan, and other operating cash flows. The Company continues to seek new acquisitions. To offset the use of cash we had approximately $74.4 million related to the sale of assets for the year ended December 31, 2021, mostly related to the Clark Pest property sale leasebacks, as compared to $7.7 million of asset sales for the year ended December 31, 2020. Cash Used in or Provided by Financing Activities The Company used $290.2 million in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 and $281.3 million in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2020. The Company repaid $48.0 million of its outstanding debt balance throughout 2021, net of borrowings, compared to $88.5 million during 2020, net of borrowings. A total of $208.7 million was paid in cash dividends ($0.42 per share) during the year ended December 31, 2021 including a special dividend paid in December 2021 of $0.08 per share, compared to $160.5 million in cash dividends paid ($0.33 per share) during the year ended December 31, 2020, including a special dividend paid in December 2020 of $0.09 per share. In 2020, the dividend was reduced due to the uncertainty surrounding the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic (“COVID-19”) to our business. In 2012, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to 5 million shares of the Company’s common stock. After adjustments for stock splits, the total authorized shares under the share repurchase plan are 16.9 million shares. The Company did not purchase shares on the open market during the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019. There remain 11.4 million shares authorized to be repurchased under prior Board approval. The Company repurchased $10.7 million, $8.3 million, and $10.0 million of common stock for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively, from employees for the payment of taxes on vesting restricted shares. The Company’s $105.3 million of total cash at December 31, 2021 is primarily cash held at various banking institutions. Approximately $78.1 million is held in cash accounts at international bank institutions and the remaining $27.2 million is primarily held in Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) insured non-interest-bearing accounts at various domestic banks which at times may exceed federally insured amounts. The Company’s international business is expanding, and we intend to continue to grow the business in foreign markets in the future through reinvestment of foreign deposits and future earnings as well as acquisitions of unrelated companies. Repatriation of cash from the Company’s international subsidiaries is not a part of the Company’s current business plan. Rollins maintains adequate liquidity and capital resources, without regard to its foreign deposits, that are directed to finance domestic operations and obligations and to fund expansion of its domestic business. In order to comply with applicable debt covenants, the Company is required to maintain at all times a leverage ratio of not greater than 3.00:1.00. The leverage ratio is calculated as of the last day of the fiscal quarter most recently ended. The Company remained in compliance with applicable debt covenants at December 31, 2021 and expects to maintain compliance throughout 2022. For Information regarding our Revolving Credit Agreement see Note 4 – Debt of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). Litigation For discussion on the Company’s legal contingencies, see Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the accompanying financial statements, and Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings. 23 ​ Contractual Obligations and Contingent Liabilities and Commitments The impact that the Company’s contractual obligations as of December 31, 2021 are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods is as follows: ​ 1. These amounts represent expected payments under the January 27, 2022 amended Credit Agreement as detailed in Note 4 to the financial statements. 2. These amounts represent expected payments with interest for unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2021. ​ Critical Accounting Estimates The Company views critical accounting estimates to be those that are very important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations, and that require management’s most difficult, complex or subjective judgments. The circumstances that make these judgments difficult or complex relate to the need for management to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. We believe our critical accounting estimate to be as follows: Accrued Insurance— The Company retains, up to specified limits, certain risks related to general liability, workers’ compensation and auto liability. Risks are managed through either high deductible insurance or, for Clark Pest Control only, a non-affiliated group captive insurance member arrangement. The estimated costs of existing and future claims under the retained loss program are accrued based upon historical trends as incidents occur, whether reported or unreported (although actual settlement of the claims may not be made until future periods) and may be subsequently revised based on developments relating to such claims. The group captive is subject to a third-party actuary retained by the captive manager, independent from the Company.  For the high deductible insurance program, the Company contracts with an independent third-party actuary on a semi-annual basis to provide the Company an estimated liability based upon historical claims information. The actuarial study is a major consideration in establishing the reserve, along with management’s knowledge of changes in business practice and existing claims compared to current balances. Management’s judgment is inherently subjective as a number of factors are outside management’s knowledge and control. Additionally, historical information is not always an accurate indication of future events. The Company continues to be proactive in safety and risk management to develop and maintain ongoing programs to reduce and prevent incidents and claims. Initiatives that have been implemented include required pre-employment screening and ongoing motor vehicle record review for all drivers, post-offer physicals for new employees, pre-hire, random and post incident drug testing, driver training and post-injury nurse triage for work-related injuries. The accruals and reserves we hold are based on estimates that involve a degree of judgment and are inherently variable and could be overestimated or insufficient. If actual claims exceed our estimates, our operating results could be materially affected, and our ability to take timely corrective actions to limit future costs may be limited. Recent Accounting Guidance and Other Policies and Estimates See Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) for further discussion. ​ 24 ​