********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

An investment in our common stock involves certain risks. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You are cautioned that the risk factors discussed below are not exhaustive. Risks Related to our Business, Brand, Industry and Operations We face risks regarding our ability to compete in the pest control industry in the future. We operate in a highly competitive industry with fragmented markets and low barriers to entry. Our revenues and earnings are affected by changes in competitors’ services, markets, and prices and general economic issues. We compete with other large pest control companies, as well as numerous smaller pest control companies, for a finite number of customers. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the market areas that we serve are quality and speed of service, customer proximity, customer satisfaction, brand awareness and reputation, terms of guarantees, technical proficiency and price. Although we believe that our customer experience and quality service are excellent, we cannot assure investors that we will be able to maintain our competitive position in the future. We may not be able to identify, complete or successfully integrate acquisitions or guarantee that any acquisitions will achieve the anticipated financial benefits. Acquisitions have been and may continue to be an important element of our business strategy. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to identify and acquire acceptable acquisition targets on terms favorable to us in the future, that we will receive necessary regulatory approvals, or that any acquisitions will achieve the anticipated financial benefits. Our inability to achieve the anticipated financial benefits from any acquisition transactions may not be realized due to any number of factors, including, but not limited to, unsuccessful integration efforts, unexpected or underestimated liabilities or increased costs, fees, expenses and charges related to such transactions. Such adverse events could result in a decrease in the estimated fair value of goodwill or other intangible assets established as a result of such transactions, triggering an impairment. Our business depends on our strong brands and failing to maintain and enhance our brands and develop a positive client reputation and experience could hurt our ability to retain and expand our base of customers. Our strong brands, such as Orkin, HomeTeam Pest Defense, Clark Pest Control, Northwest Exterminating, Fox Pest Control, Trutech, Western Pest Services, The Industrial Fumigant Company (IFC), Waltham Services, Okolona Pest Control (OPC), and Critter Control, have significantly contributed to the success of our business. Maintaining and enhancing our brands increases our ability to enter new markets and launch new and innovative services that better serve the needs of our customers. Our brands may be negatively impacted by a number of factors, including, among others, reputational issues, product/technical failures, and customer experience. We continue to develop strategies and innovative tools to gain a deeper understanding of customer acquisition and retention in order to more effectively expand and retain our customer base. Maintaining and enhancing our brands will depend largely on our brands’ ability to remain service leaders and continue to provide high-quality pest control services that are truly beneficial and play a meaningful role in people’s lives. 12 Labor shortages, our ability to attract and retain skilled workers, and increased labor costs may impair growth potential and profitability. Our ability to remain productive and profitable will depend substantially on our ability to compete with other pest control and service companies to attract, adequately train, and retain skilled workers and key employees (including executive officers), create leadership opportunities, and successfully implement diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives. Our ability to expand our operations is in part impacted by our ability to increase our labor force. The demand for employees is high, and the supply is limited. Ongoing labor shortages could negatively affect our ability to efficiently operate at full capacity or lead to increased costs, such as increased overtime to meet demand and increased wage rates to attract and retain employees. A significant increase in the wages paid and benefits offered by competing employers could also result in a reduction in our labor force, increases in our labor costs, or both. Prolonged labor shortages, increased turnover or labor inflation could diminish our profitability and impair our growth potential. In addition, decisions and rules by the National Labor Relations Board, including “expedited elections” and restrictions on appeals, could lead to increased organizing activities at our subsidiaries. If these labor organizing activities are successful, it could further increase labor costs, decrease operating efficiency and productivity in the future, or otherwise disrupt or negatively impact our operations which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business. We may experience difficulties integrating, streamlining and optimizing our information technology (“IT”) systems and processes. We have invested in, and expect to continue to invest in, new systems and technology to implement new or improve existing business capabilities and streamline business processes, financial reporting, and acquisition integration. Many of these efforts impact customers, suppliers, employees, and others, and any disruption or failure could adversely affect our business and operations. We may experience significant delays, increased costs, and other difficulties, which could adversely affect our ability to process work orders, send invoices, track, and collect payments, fulfill contractual obligations, or otherwise operate our business in compliance with laws. In addition, our efforts to centralize various business processes within our organization in connection with the implementations may disrupt operations. We may also experience difficulties, costs or delays in migrating acquired businesses to our systems, processes, and technologies. Distributor or supply chain issues may result in product shortages or disruptions to our business. We have a complex global network of distributors and suppliers that has expanded to meet increased customer demand and may, in the future, further evolve in response to market conditions. Although the majority of the products we use are generally available from multiple sources, and alternatives have been generally available in the event of disruption in the past, we could experience material disruptions in production, transportation, and other supply chain issues on specific products, which could result in out-of-stock conditions, and our results of operations and relationships with customers could be adversely affected (a) if new or existing distributors or suppliers are unable to meet any standards that we set or that are set by government or industry regulations or customers, (b) if we are unable to contract with distributors or suppliers at the quantity, quality and price levels needed for our business, or (c) if any of our key distributors or suppliers has shipping disruptions or becomes insolvent, ceases or significantly reduces its operations or experiences financial distress. Our inability to fully or substantially meet customer demand due to distributor or supply chain issues could result in, among other things, unmet consumer demand leading to reduced preference for our products or services in the future, customers purchasing services from competitors as a result of such shortage of products, strained customer relationships, termination of customer contracts, additional competition and new entrants into the market, and loss of potential sales and revenue. Climate change and unfavorable weather conditions could adversely impact our financial results. Our operations are directly impacted by the weather conditions worldwide, including catastrophic events, natural disasters and potential impacts from climate change. Our business is also affected by extreme weather such as hurricanes which can impact our ability to operate as well as drought which can greatly reduce the pest population for extended periods. Climate change continues to receive increasing global attention. The possible effects of climate change could include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing storm patterns and intensities, changing temperature levels and changes in legislation, regulation, and international accords, all of which could adversely impact our costs and business operations. Our business is also affected by seasonality associated with our pest and termite control services. The increase in pest 13 presence and activity, as well as the metamorphosis of termites in the spring and summer (the occurrence of which is determined by the timing of the change in seasons), has historically resulted in an increase in the revenue and income of our pest and termite control operations during such periods. We may not successfully execute our business strategies, including achieving our growth objectives. We may not be able to fully implement our business strategies or realize, in whole or in part within the expected time frames, the anticipated benefits of various growth or other initiatives. Our ability to implement our business strategy may be adversely affected by factors that we cannot foresee currently, such as unanticipated costs and expenses, global health crises, technological change, recession and economic slowdown, the level of interest rates, foreign exchange risks, failure to integrate acquisitions, or a decline in the effectiveness of our marketing (including digital marketing). In addition, we will incur certain costs to achieve efficiency improvements, systems implementations, and growth in our business, and we may not meet anticipated implementation timetables or stay within budgeted costs. As these initiatives are implemented, we may not fully achieve the desired results, including but not limited to, expected cost savings or growth rates, and these initiatives may adversely impact customer retention or our operations. Also, our business strategies may change in light of our ability to implement new business initiatives, competitive pressures, economic uncertainties or developments or other factors. Expanding into international markets presents unique challenges, and our expansion efforts with respect to international operations may not be successful. An element of our business includes further expansion in international markets. Our ability to successfully operate in international markets may be adversely affected by political, economic and social conditions beyond our control and geopolitical conflicts, such as the conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the conflict in Gaza. Also, we may be adversely affected by local laws and customs and legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with applicable export, anti-corruption and currency laws and regulations of the countries or regions in which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. Risks inherent in our existing and future international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, difficulties in identifying and gaining access to local distributors and suppliers, suffering possible adverse tax consequences from changes in tax laws or the unfavorable resolution of tax assessments or audits, maintaining product quality and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. Additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our financial results. Our franchisees, subcontractors, and vendors could take actions that could harm our business. Our franchisees, subcontractors, and vendors are contractually obligated to operate their businesses in accordance with the standards set forth in our agreements with them and applicable laws and regulations. Each of our brands that are franchised also provides training and support to franchisees. However, franchisees, subcontractors, and vendors are independent third parties that we do not control, and who own, operate and oversee the daily operations of their businesses, and the ultimate success of any business operation rests with the business owner. If franchisees do not successfully operate their businesses in a manner consistent with required standards, royalty payments owed to us will be adversely affected and our brands’ image and reputation could be harmed. Similarly, if franchisees, subcontractors, and vendors do not successfully operate their businesses in a manner consistent with required laws, standards and regulations, we could be subject to claims from regulators or legal claims for the actions or omissions of such third-party franchisees, subcontractors, and vendors. In addition, our relationship with our franchisees, subcontractors, and vendors could become strained (including resulting in litigation) as we impose new standards or assert more rigorous enforcement practices of the existing required standards. Risks Related to Cybersecurity, Privacy Compliance and Business Disruptions The Company, our wholly-owned subsidiaries, third-party business partners and service providers have been subject to cybersecurity incidents in the past and could be the targets of future attacks that could result in disruption to our business operations, economic and reputational damage, and possible fines, penalties and private litigation, if there is unauthorized access to or unintentional distribution of personal, financial, proprietary, confidential, or other protected data or information the Company is entrusted to keep about its customers, employees, business practices, or third parties, or there are significant operational disruptions that result from a cybersecurity incident. Our internal IT systems contain certain personal, financial, health, or other protected and confidential information that is entrusted to us by our customers and employees. Our IT systems also contain our and our wholly-owned subsidiaries’ 14 proprietary and other confidential information related to our business, such as business plans, customer lists, pricing, and service development initiatives. From time to time, we have integration with new IT systems due to organic growth and acquisitions. In addition, we grant third-party business partners and service providers access to confidential information in order to facilitate business operations and administer employee benefits. Employees, third-party business partners, and service providers can knowingly or unknowingly disseminate such information or serve as an entry point for bad actors to access such information. The Company has assigned Board responsibility for oversight of cybersecurity risk to the Audit Committee, which monitors the cybersecurity risk management and cyber control functions, including external security audits, and receives periodic updates from experienced senior management knowledgeable about assessing and managing cyber risks, including, as appropriate, updates on the prevention, detection, mitigation, and remediation of cyber incidents. We continue to evaluate and modify our systems and protocols for data security compliance purposes, and such standards may change from time to time. We have processes in place to oversee and identify cybersecurity risks and vulnerability related to certain third-party business partners, vendors, and service providers. We have processes to address risks of a key service provider experiencing a significant cybersecurity incident that renders their services unavailable, but those processes may not cover all business losses. Activities by bad actors, changes in computer and software capabilities and encryption technology, new tools and discoveries, cloud applications, changes in multi-jurisdictional regulations, and other events or developments may result in a compromise or breach of our systems. Any compromises, breaches, application errors or human mistakes related to our systems or failures to comply with applicable standards could not only disrupt our financial operations, including our customers’ ability to pay for our services and products by credit card or their willingness to purchase our services and products, but could also result in violations of applicable laws, regulations, orders, industry standards or agreements and subject us to costs, penalties and liabilities. A breach of data security or failure to comply with rigorous multi-jurisdictional consumer privacy requirements could expose us to customer litigation, regulatory actions and costs related to the reporting and handling of such a violation or breach. Furthermore, while we maintain cybersecurity insurance, our insurance may not cover all liabilities incurred due to a security breach or incident. Risks Related to Legal, Regulatory and Risk Management Matters In the countries in which we operate, our business is subject to various federal, state, provincial, and local laws and regulations pertaining to environmental, public health and safety matters, including those related to the pest control industry, and any noncompliance with, changes to, or increased enforcement of such laws, could significantly impact our business. Our business is subject to various federal, state, and local laws and regulations pertaining to environmental, public health and safety matters, including those related to the pest control industry. Among other things, these laws also govern the use, storage, treatment, disposal, transportation and management of certain pesticides and hazardous substances and waste and regulate the emission or discharge of materials into the environment. In addition, the use of certain pesticide products is also regulated by various federal, state, provincial and local environmental and public health agencies. These regulations may also apply to our third-party suppliers. Penalties for noncompliance with these laws may include criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including, but not limited to, cancellation of licenses, fines, and other corrective actions. Noncompliance with, changes in, expanded enforcement of, or adoption of new laws and regulations governing hazardous waste disposal and other environmental matters, could result in operational changes and increased costs. We are subject to regulation in the countries in which we operate related to employment laws, and noncompliance could lead to fines or legal proceedings. We are subject to a myriad of complex laws and regulations in the various federal, state, provincial, regional, and local governments in the countries in which we operate related to employees, including, but not limited to wage and hour laws, anti-discrimination laws, immigration, pension benefit plans, ERISA laws, and retirement benefits. Any failure to comply with such applicable laws or regulations could result in fines or legal proceedings. New or proposed regulation regarding climate change could have uncertain impacts on our business. Climate change has been the subject of increased focus by various governmental authorities and regulators around the world. In particular, the US is considering the enactment of legislative and regulatory proposals that would impose requirements on greenhouse gas emissions. Such laws, if enacted, are likely to impact our business in a number of ways. For example, we use gasoline and electricity in conducting our operations. Increased government regulations to limit 15 carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions may result in increased compliance costs and legislation or regulation affecting energy inputs, which could materially affect our profitability. Further the SEC has proposed rule amendments that would implement a framework for reporting of climate-related risks and create new climate-related disclosure obligations for all registrants, including us. Compliance with any new or more stringent laws or requirements, or stricter interpretations of existing laws, could require additional expenditures by us or our suppliers. We cannot predict how the proposed rules, if finalized, or any future legislation or regulations pertaining to climate change, will ultimately affect our business. Termite claims and lawsuits related thereto could increase our legal expenses. From time to time, we are subject to claims brought by our customers for termite protection services, generally based on alleged termite damage to the structure(s) covered by our contracts with those customers. In some instances of these claims, the customer may initiate litigation or arbitration proceedings or these matters could be brought as a class action against us or one of our brands. Our safety and risk management programs may not have the intended effect of reducing our liability for employee-work related injuries, third party-liability claims or property loss. Our auto or other safety management system and performance measures are critical to our reputation and results of operation. We attempt to mitigate risks relating to employee work-related injuries, automobile collision, third-party liability, or property loss through the implementation of company-wide safety management programs designed to focus on prevention and decrease the occurrence of incidents or events that may occur. We expect that any such decreases could also have the effect of stabilizing or reducing our insurance costs. However, incidents involving injury or property loss may be caused by multiple potential factors, a significant number of which are beyond our control. Therefore, there is no guarantee that our safety and risk management and safety programs will have the desired effect of avoiding or controlling all potential expenses and liability exposure. Additionally, we retain certain risks related to general liability, workers’ compensation, and auto liability. The accruals and reserves we hold are based on estimates that involve a degree of judgment and are inherently variable and could be overestimated or insufficient. If actual claims exceed our estimates, our operating results could be materially affected, and our ability to take timely corrective actions to limit future costs may be limited. Further, some of our commercial customers require that we meet certain safety criteria to be eligible to provide service and bid for contracts, and many contracts provide for automatic termination or forfeiture of some or all of our contract fees or profit in the event we fail to meet certain measures. Accordingly, if we fail to maintain adequate safety standards, we could experience reduced profitability or the loss of projects or clients. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all significant risk exposures and our accruals and reserves for uninsured claims are variable. We are exposed to liabilities that are unique to our business and the services we provide. We maintain commercial liability insurance that extends to products liability. In addition, we also maintain other insurance and other traditional risk transfer tools to respond to certain types of liabilities and risks. However, such tools are subject to terms such as deductibles, retentions, limits and policy exclusions, as well as risk of denial of coverage, default or insolvency. If we experience unexpected or uncovered losses, or if any of our insurance policies are terminated for any reason or are not effective in mitigating our risks, we may incur losses that are not covered or that exceed our coverage limits. In addition, there can be no assurance that the types or levels of coverage maintained are adequate to cover these potential significant and catastrophic risks. Further, we may not be able to continue to maintain our existing insurance coverage or obtain comparable or additional insurance coverage at a reasonable cost in the event a significant product or service claim arises. We have been and may in the future be subject to lawsuits, investigations and other proceedings which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the normal course of business, we have been and may in the future be involved in various claims, contractual disputes, investigations, arbitration and litigation, including (1) claims that our acts, omissions, services or vehicles caused damage or injury, (2) claims that our services did not achieve the desired results, (3) claims related to acquisitions, (4) claims related to violations of antitrust laws or consumer protection laws, (4) claims related to allegations by federal, state or local authorities, including the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Federal Trade Commission and Department of Justice, of violations of regulations or statutes, (5) claims related to federal securities laws, (6) claims related to employment law 16 violations, (7) claims related to environmental matters, and (8) claims related to additional laws and regulations. These claims, proceedings or litigation, either alone or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Certain Intellectual Property Rights Our brand recognition or reputation could be impacted if we are not able to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights that are material to our business. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on our rights to service marks, trademarks, trade names and other intellectual property rights we own or license. Although we have sought to register or protect many of our marks either in the United States or in the countries in which they are or may be used, we have not sought to protect our marks in every country. Furthermore, because of the differences in foreign trademark, patent and other intellectual property or proprietary rights laws, we may not receive the same protection in other countries as we would in the United States. If we are unable to protect our proprietary information and brand names, we could suffer a material adverse effect to our reputation and business. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and protect our proprietary information, or to defend against claims by third parties that our products, services or activities infringe their intellectual property rights. Risks Related to Public Health Crises The effects of a pandemic or other major public health concern, could materially impact our business. The impact of a pandemic or other major public health concerns, including changes in consumer behavior and discretionary spending, market downturns, and restrictions on business and individual activities, could create significant volatility in the global economy. Additionally, government or regulatory responses to pandemics or other public health concerns, such as mandatory lockdowns, vaccine mandates or other restrictions on operations, could negatively impact our business. The ultimate impact of a pandemic or other major public health concern also depends on events beyond our knowledge or control, including the duration and severity of such pandemics and other major public health concerns, and related remedial or containment measures taken by parties other than us to respond to them. We are unable to completely predict the full impact that a pandemic, or other major public health concern will have on our business due to numerous uncertainties. In addition, our compliance with remedial or containment measures could impact our day-to-day operations and could disrupt our business and operations, as well as that of our customers and suppliers, for an indefinite period of time. Furthermore, labor force availability may be impaired due to exposure, reluctance to comply with governmental, regulatory or contractual mandates, or other restrictions, which could negatively affect our operating costs and profitability or negatively impact our ability to provide quality services. Risks Related to Market Conditions Adverse economic conditions, including inflation and restrictions in customer discretionary expenditures, increases in interest rates or other disruptions in credit or financial markets, increases in fuel prices, raw material costs, or other operating costs could materially adversely affect our business. Economic downturns may adversely affect our commercial customers, including food service, hospitality and food processing industries whose business levels are particularly sensitive to adverse economies. For example, we may lose commercial customers and related revenues because of consolidation or cessation of commercial businesses or because these businesses switch to a lower cost provider. Pest and termite services represent discretionary expenditures to many of our residential customers. If consumers restrict their discretionary expenditures, due to inflation or other economic hardships, we may suffer a decline in revenues from our residential service lines. Disruptions in credit or financial markets could make it more difficult for us to obtain, or increase the cost of obtaining, financing in the future. Increases in interest rates may cause a reduction in new home construction or real estate transactions, which could result in a decrease in revenue. In addition, there can be no assurances that fuel prices, raw material costs, or other operating costs, all of which may be subject to inflationary pressures, will not materially increase in future years. 17 Risks Related to our Capital and Ownership Structure A group that includes members of the Company’s Board of Directors and management has a significant ownership interest; public stockholders may have no effective voice in the Company’s management. The Company has a significant shareholder group, which includes the Company’s Executive Chairman of the Board, Gary W. Rollins, Board member, Pam Rollins, and certain persons acting as a group with them (the “Significant Shareholder”). The Significant Shareholder held directly, or through indirect beneficial ownership, in the aggregate, approximately 43 percent of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock as of December 31, 2023. As a result, these persons will have significant influence over the operations of the Company, including the election of directors and approval of substantial corporate transactions such as acquisitions and approval of matters requiring stockholder approval. This concentration of ownership could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control of the Company at a premium. The Significant Shareholder has a substantial ownership interest, and the availability of the Company’s common stock to the investing public may be limited. The availability of Rollins’ common stock to the investing public is limited to those shares not held by the Significant Shareholder, which could negatively impact Rollins’ stock trading prices and affect the ability of minority stockholders to sell their shares. Future sales by the Significant Shareholder of all or a portion of their shares could also negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. The Significant Shareholder could take various actions or engage in certain transactions that could negatively impact our common stock price or cause volatility in the market for our common stock. The Significant Shareholder may from time to time and at any time acquire or cause to be acquired, additional equity or other instruments of the Company or derivative instruments the value of which is linked to Company securities, or dispose or cause to be disposed, such equity or other securities or instruments, in any amount that the Significant Shareholder may determine in its sole discretion, through open market transactions, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. In addition, depending upon a variety of factors, the Significant Shareholder may at any time engage in discussions with the Company and its affiliates, and other persons, including retained outside advisers, concerning the Company’s business, management, strategic alternatives and direction, and in its sole discretion, consider, formulate and implement various plans or proposals intended to enhance the value of its investment in the Company, including, among other things, proposing or effecting any matter that would constitute or result in: (i) the acquisition by any person of additional securities of the Company or the disposition of securities of the Company, in addition to the possible normal course dissolution of additional entities for estate or tax planning purposes; (ii) an extraordinary corporate transaction, such as a merger, reorganization or liquidation, involving the Company or any subsidiary thereof; (iii) a sale or transfer of a material amount of assets of the Company or any subsidiary thereof; (iv) a change in the present board of directors or management of the Company, including any plans or proposals to change the number or term of directors or to fill any existing vacancies on the board; (v) a material change in the present capitalization or dividend policy of the Company; (vi) other material changes in the Company’s business or corporate structure; (vii) changes in the Company’s charter, bylaws, or instruments corresponding thereto, or other actions which may impede the acquisition of control of the Company by any person; (viii) causing a class of securities of the Company to be delisted from a national securities exchange or to cease to be authorized to be quoted in an inter-dealer quotation system of a registered national securities association; or (ix) a class of equity securities of the Company becoming eligible for termination of registration pursuant to Section 12(g)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In the event the Significant Shareholder was to engage in any of the actions enumerated above, our common stock price could be negatively impacted or such actions could cause volatility in the market for our common stock. Certain provisions in Rollins, Inc.’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws may inhibit a takeover of the Company. Rollins, Inc.’s certificate of incorporation, bylaws and other documents contain provisions including advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and staggered terms for the Board of Directors. These provisions may make a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by the Company’s Board of Directors more difficult or expensive. 18

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Presentation This discussion should be read in conjunction with our audited financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this document. Discussions of 2021 items and year-to-year comparisons of 2022 and 2021 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. The following discussion (as well as other discussions in this document) contains forward-looking statements. Please see “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” and "Risk Factors" for a discussion of uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these statements. 22 The Company Rollins, Inc. (“Rollins,” “we,” “us,” “our,” or the “Company”), is an international services company headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia that provides pest and termite control services to both residential and commercial customers through its wholly-owned subsidiaries and independent franchises in the United States, Canada, Australia, Europe, and Asia with international franchises in Canada, Central and South America, the Caribbean, Europe, the Middle East, Asia, Africa, and Australia. Our pest and termite control services are performed pursuant to terms of contracts that specify the pricing arrangement with the customer. The Company operates as one reportable segment and the results of operations and its financial condition are not reliant upon any single customer. Strategic Update We are focused on continuous improvement throughout the business. During 2023, we made significant strides in all four pillars of our strategic objectives: 1) people first 2) customer loyalty 3) growth mindset and 4) operational efficiency. People First During 2023, we focused on the safety of our people. We are continuously improving our safety culture and monitoring our measurable safety goals. For example, throughout the year we made considerable progress with respect to the implementation and adoption of our driver safety application, which monitors driver behaviors once a vehicle is in motion. Our average driver safety score for drivers that we monitor showed improvement in 2023. We also executed a restructuring program during the year to modernize our workforce and enable us to make more strategic improvements in our support functions. We remain committed to developing exceptional talent and investing in our teams, including a focus on strategic hiring in both support functions, as well as the customer-facing side of our business. Customer Loyalty We remain committed to providing our customers with the best customer experience. Effective sales and service staffing levels helped us to capitalize on continued demand and deliver solid results for the year, with organic revenues* growing by 8.2% compared to 2022. Growth Mindset 2023 marked a record year in terms of revenues, totaling $3.1 billion, an increase of 14.0% over 2022, with acquisition revenues* growing by 5.9% compared to 2022. We completed the acquisition of Fox Pest Control ("Fox"), one of the largest acquisitions in the Company's history, for $339.5 million. We also completed 23 additional acquisitions in 2023, driving inorganic growth at several of our brands. Operational Efficiency We saw healthy margins in 2023, with gross margin improving 70 basis points to 52.2% in 2023 compared to 51.5% in 2022. Operating margin was 19.0% of revenue, an increase of 70 basis points over 2022 and adjusted operating income margin* at 19.7%, an increase of 140 basis points over the prior year. *Amounts are non-GAAP financial measures. See the schedules below for definitions and a discussion of non-GAAP financial metrics, including a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measure. Impact of Economic Trends The continued disruption in economic markets due to high inflation, increases in interest rates, business interruptions due to natural disasters and changes in weather patterns, employee shortages, and supply chain issues, all pose challenges which may adversely affect our future performance. The Company continues to execute various strategies previously implemented to help mitigate the impact of these economic disruptors. However, the Company cannot reasonably estimate whether these strategies will help mitigate the impact of these economic disruptors in the future. 23 The Company’s consolidated financial statements reflect estimates and assumptions made by management that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and related disclosures as of the date of the condensed consolidated financial statements. The Company considered the impact of economic trends on the assumptions and estimates used in preparing the consolidated financial statements. In the opinion of management, all material adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial results for the year have been made. These adjustments are of a normal recurring nature but are complicated by the continued uncertainty surrounding these macro economic trends. The severity, magnitude and duration of certain economic trends continue to be uncertain and are difficult to predict. Therefore, our accounting estimates and assumptions may change over time in response to economic trends and may change materially in future periods. The extent to which increasing interest rates, inflation and other economic trends will continue to impact the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations is uncertain. Therefore, we cannot reasonably estimate the full future impacts of these matters at this time. Results of Operations—2023 Compared to 2022 (1) Exclusive of depreciation and amortization (2) Amounts are non-GAAP financial measures. See "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" below for a discussion of non-GAAP financial metrics including a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measure. 24 Revenues The following presents a summary of revenues by product and service offering and revenues by geography: Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2023 were $3.1 billion, an increase of $377.5 million, or 14.0%, from 2022 revenues of $2.7 billion. The increase in revenues was driven by demand from our customers that remained strong throughout the year across all major service offerings. Comparing 2023 to 2022, organic revenue* growth was 8.2% while acquisitions drove 5.9% of total growth. Looking at the service offerings, residential pest control revenue increased approximately 17%, commercial pest control revenue increased approximately 11% and termite and ancillary services grew approximately 13% including both organic and acquisition-related growth in each area. Organic revenue* growth was strong across our service offerings, growing over 6% in residential, approximately 10% in commercial, and over 10% in termite and ancillary activity. The Company’s foreign operations accounted for approximately 7% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022. We continue to maintain a very healthy balance sheet that positions us well to continue to invest in growth initiatives across our business as we enter 2024, From an organic perspective, we are proactively managing pricing across our portfolio.  Additionally, while lead generation and the overall demand environment are healthy to start the new year, we continue to navigate the negative impact of a colder January in certain parts of our business. 25 *Amounts are non-GAAP financial measures. See the schedules below for definitions and a discussion of non-GAAP financial metrics, including a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measure. Gross Profit Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2023 was $1.6 billion, an increase of $216.0 million, or 15.6%, compared to $1.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022. Gross margin improved 70 basis points to 52.2% in 2023 compared to 51.5% in 2022. The acquisition of Fox drove 20 basis points of leverage in 2023. Excluding this, gross margin improved 50 basis points as pricing more than offset increases in our cost structure. Looking specifically at people related costs, materials and supplies, and fleet, which comprise 87% of total cost of services, we saw an improvement of 90 basis points associated with leverage in these categories, as pricing more than offset inflationary pressures. Insurance and claims experience decreased gross margins in 2023 by 10 basis points. We expect the normal seasonality to drive lower gross profit margins in the first and fourth quarters of 2024 relative to the second and third quarters on the lower level of business activity. Sales, General and Administrative For the twelve months ended December 31, 2023, sales, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased $112.5 million, or 14.0%, compared to the twelve months ended December 31, 2022. The increase is driven by people-related costs, advertising and selling expenses associated with growth initiatives. As a percentage of revenue, SG&A was consistent at 29.8% in 2023 and 2022, as we continue to manage our cost structure while investing in growth initiatives. Restructuring Costs During the twelve months ended December 31, 2023, we executed a restructuring program to modernize our workforce. This effort resulted in expense of approximately $5.2 million in the year. The large majority of the costs incurred are related to severance-related costs for employees who were terminated as part of this effort. The changes were primarily across corporate-related functions and will enable us to make more strategic improvements in our support functions. Depreciation and Amortization For the twelve months ended December 31, 2023, depreciation and amortization increased $8.4 million, or 9.2%, compared to the twelve months ended December 31, 2022. The increase was due to higher amortization of intangible assets from acquisitions, most notably Fox, offset by lower depreciation of operating equipment and internal-use software. Operating Income For the twelve months ended December 31, 2023, operating income increased $89.8 million or 18.2% compared to the prior year. As a percentage of revenue, operating income increased to 19.0% from 18.3% in the prior year. The improvement in operating income as a percentage of sales is primarily driven by the improvement in gross profit discussed previously. We expect the first and fourth quarters to represent our lowest level for margins and profitability due primarily to the lower level of volume generated in those quarters due to the impact of seasonality. Interest Expense, Net During the twelve months ended December 31, 2023, interest expense, net increased $16.4 million compared to the prior year, due to the increase in the average debt balance associated primarily with the acquisition of Fox and the share repurchase completed during 2023. Debt levels and corresponding interest expense are expected to remain elevated in the first half of 2024 due primarily to the higher level of debt associated with the acquisition of Fox and the share repurchases during 2023. 26 Other Income, Net During the twelve months ended December 31, 2023, other income, net increased $13.9 million primarily due to the Company recognizing a $15.5 million gain on the sale of certain businesses during 2023, offset by lower gains from asset sales. Income Taxes The Company’s effective tax rate was 25.8% in 2023 compared to 26.1% in 2022. The 2023 rate was favorably impacted by lower state income taxes and federal tax credits compared to 2022. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP Financial Measures The Company has used the non-GAAP financial measures of organic revenues, adjusted operating income, adjusted operating margin, adjusted net income, and adjusted earnings per share (“EPS”), earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”), EBITDA margin, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, and free cash flow in this Form 10-K. Organic revenue is calculated as revenue less the revenue from acquisitions completed within the prior 12 months and excluding the revenue from divested businesses. Adjusted operating income and adjusted operating margin are calculated by adding back to the GAAP measures those expenses resulting from the amortization of certain intangible assets and adjustments to the fair value of contingent consideration resulting from the acquisition of Fox Pest Control and restructuring costs related to restructuring and workforce reduction plans. Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin are calculated by adding back to net income interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense those expenses resulting from the adjustments to the fair value of contingent consideration resulting from the acquisition of Fox Pest Control, restructuring costs related to restructuring and workforce reduction plans, and gains on the sale of businesses. Adjusted net income and adjusted EPS are calculated by adding back those acquisition-related expenses, restructuring costs, and gains on the sale of businesses to the GAAP measures and by further subtracting the tax impact of those expenses and/or gains. Free cash flow is calculated by subtracting capital expenditures from cash provided by operating activities. These measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for revenues, net income, earnings per share or other performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Management uses adjusted operating income, adjusted operating margin, adjusted net income, adjusted EPS, EBITDA, EBITDA margin, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, and free cash flow as measures of operating performance because this measure allows the Company to compare performance consistently over various periods. Management also uses organic revenues to compare revenues over various periods excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures. Management uses free cash flow to demonstrate the Company’s ability to maintain its asset base and generate future cash flows from operations. An analysis of any non-GAAP financial measure should be used in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. A non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of financial performance, financial position, or cash flows that either 1) excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of operations, balance sheet or statement of cash flows, or 2) includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. 27 Set forth below is a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures contained in this report with their most directly comparable GAAP measures (in thousands, except per share data and margins). (1) Subsequent to the issuance of the Company's 2022 financial statements, management determined that certain immaterial reclassifications within the product and service offerings were required for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021. Revenues classified by significant product and service offerings for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 have been restated from the amounts previously reported to correct the classification of such revenues. There was no impact on our consolidated statements of income, financial position, or cash flows. 28 (1) Consists of expenses resulting from the amortization of certain intangible assets and adjustments to the fair value of contingent consideration resulting from the acquisition of Fox Pest Control. While we exclude such expenses in this non-GAAP measure, the revenue from the acquired company is reflected in this non-GAAP measure and the acquired assets contribute to revenue generation. (2) Restructuring costs consist of costs primarily related to severance and benefits paid to employees pursuant to restructuring and workforce reduction plans. (3) Represents the gain on the sale of certain non-core businesses. (4) The tax effect of the adjustments is calculated using the applicable statutory tax rates for the respective periods. (5) In some cases, the sum of the individual EPS amounts may not equal total non-GAAP EPS calculations due to rounding. 29 Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash and Cash Flow The Company’s $103.8 million of total cash at December 31, 2023 is held at various banking institutions. Approximately $52.1 million is held in cash by foreign subsidiaries and the remaining $51.7 million is held in Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) insured non-interest-bearing accounts at various domestic banks which at times exceed federally insured amounts. We intend to continue to grow the business in the international markets where we have a presence. As it relates to our unremitted earnings in foreign jurisdictions, we assert that foreign cash earnings in excess of working capital and cash needed for strategic investments and acquisitions are not intended to be indefinitely reinvested offshore. On February 24, 2023, the Company entered into a revolving credit agreement with, among others, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (“JPMorgan Chase”), as administrative agent (in such capacity, the “Administrative Agent”), which refinanced its previous credit facility. The Credit Agreement provides for a $1.0 billion revolving Credit Facility, which may be denominated in U.S. Dollars and other currencies, including Euros, Australian Dollars, Canadian Dollars, New Zealand Dollars, Pounds Sterling and Japanese Yen, subject to a $400 million foreign currency sublimit. Rollins has the ability to expand its borrowing availability under the Credit Agreement in the form of increased revolving commitments or one or more tranches of term loans by up to an additional $750 million, subject to the agreement of the participating lenders and certain other customary conditions. The maturity date of the loans under the Credit Agreement is February 24, 2028. Refer to Note 10, Debt to the accompanying financial statements for further details. As of December 31, 2023, the Company had outstanding borrowings of $493.0 million under the Credit Facility. The aggregate effective interest rate on the debt outstanding as of December 31, 2023 was 6.5%. As of December 31, 2022, the Company had outstanding borrowings of $54.9 million under the previous Term Loan and there were no outstanding borrowings under the previous Revolving Commitment. The aggregate effective interest rate on the debt outstanding as of December 31, 2022 was 5.1%. The Company maintains $71.7 million in letters of credit as of December 31, 2023. These letters of credit are required by the Company’s insurance companies, due to the Company’s high deductible insurance program, to secure various workers’ compensation and casualty insurance contracts coverage and were increased from $71.3 million as of December 31, 2022. The Company believes that it has adequate liquid assets, funding sources and insurance accruals to accommodate potential future insurance claims. The Company believes its current cash and cash equivalents balances, future cash flows expected to be generated from operating activities, and available borrowings under its Credit Facility will be sufficient to finance its current operations and obligations, and fund expansion of the business for the foreseeable future. The following table sets forth a summary of our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2023 and 2022: N/M - calculation not meaningful 30 Cash Provided by Operating Activities Cash from operating activities is the principal source of cash generation for our businesses. The most significant source of cash in our cash flow from operations is customer-related activities, the largest of which is collecting cash resulting from services sold. The most significant operating use of cash is to pay our suppliers, employees, and tax authorities. The Company’s operating activities generated net cash of $528.4 million and $465.9 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The $62.4 million increase was driven primarily by strong operating results and the timing of cash receipts and cash payments to vendors, employees, and tax and regulatory authorities. Cash Used in Investing Activities The Company’s investing activities used $372.9 million and $134.1 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Cash paid for acquisitions totaled $366.9 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2023, as compared to $119.2 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2022, driven primarily by the acquisition of Fox Pest Control. The Company invested $32.5 million in capital expenditures during the year, offset by $12.5 million in cash proceeds from the sale of assets, and $15.9 million in cash proceeds from the sale of businesses, compared with $30.6 million of capital expenditures and $14.6 million in cash proceeds from asset sales in 2022. The Company’s investing activities were funded through existing cash balances, operating cash flows, and borrowings under the Credit Facility. Cash Used in Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities was $149.4 million and $336.0 million during the twelve months ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. A total of $264.3 million was paid in cash dividends ($0.54 per share) during the twelve months ended December 31, 2023, compared to $211.6 million in cash dividends paid ($0.43 per share) during the twelve months ended December 31, 2022. The Company made net borrowings under its credit agreements of $438.0 million during the twelve months ended December 31, 2023, compared to net repayments of $100.0 million during 2022. In addition, during the twelve months ended December 31, 2023, the Company completed the repurchase of 8,724,100 of the shares of common stock from LOR, Inc ("LOR") (a company controlled by Mr. Gary W. Rollins and certain members of his family) for $300.0 million in conjunction with the transaction described below. On September 6, 2023, the Company entered into an underwriting agreement (the “Underwriting Agreement”) with LOR, and Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, as representatives of the several underwriters named in Schedule I thereto (the “Underwriters”), relating to the offer by LOR of 38,724,100 shares of the Company’s common stock, par value $1.00 per share, at a public offering price of $34.39 per share (the “Offering”). In connection with the Offering, LOR granted the Underwriters an option to purchase up to an additional 5,785,714 shares of common stock (the “Optional Shares”). The Offering, including the sale of the Optional Shares, closed on September 11, 2023. The Company did not sell any shares in the Offering and did not receive any proceeds from the Offering. On June 5 2023, the Company entered into a registration rights agreement (the "Registration Rights Agreement") with LOR, and LOR paid $1.5 million to the Company and upon closing the Offering, LOR paid $3.5 million to the Company pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement. Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company will pay all costs, fees and expenses incident to the Company’s performance or compliance with the Registration Rights Agreement with respect to a total of five (5) requested offerings, and thereafter, LOR will be responsible for all such expenses in connection with any subsequent offering. These cash receipts are included in other financing activities. In 2012, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to 5 million shares of the Company’s common stock. After adjustments for stock splits, the total authorized shares under the share repurchase program were 16.9 million shares. As of December 31, 2023, we have a remaining authorization of 11.4 million shares under the share repurchase program. The Company did not repurchase shares of its common stock on the open market during 2023 or 2022. However, in 2023 the Company purchased $4.2 million of shares on behalf of employees for the Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The Company also repurchased $10.8 million and $7.1 million of common stock for the twelve months ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, from employees for the payment of taxes on vesting restricted shares. In addition, the Form S-3 shelf registration statement on file with the SEC registered $1.5 billion of the Company’s common stock, preferred stock, debt securities, depository shares, warrants, rights, purchase contracts and units for future issuance. The Company may offer and sell some or all of such securities from to time or to or through underwriters, brokers or dealers, directly to one or more other purchasers, through a block trade, through agents on a best-efforts basis, 31 through a combination of any of the above methods of sale or through other types of transactions described in the Form S-3. The Company has not sold any such securities as of the date of this Form 10-K. Litigation For discussion on the Company’s legal contingencies, see Note 12, Commitments and Contingencies to the accompanying financial statements, and Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings. Contractual Commitments We have material cash requirements for known contractual obligations and commitments in the form of operating leases and debt obligations. We expect to fund these obligations primarily through cash generated from our operations. Refer to Note 6, Leases and Note 10, Debt to the accompanying financial statements for further details. Critical Accounting Estimates The Company views critical accounting estimates to be those that are very important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations, and that require management’s most difficult, complex or subjective judgments. The circumstances that make these judgments difficult or complex relate to the need for management to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. We believe our critical accounting estimates to be as follows: Accrued Insurance— The Company retains, up to specified limits, certain risks related to U.S. general liability, workers’ compensation and auto liability. Risks are managed through either high deductible insurance or, for Clark Pest Control only, a non-affiliated group captive insurance member arrangement. The estimated costs of existing and future claims under the retained loss program are accrued based upon historical trends as incidents occur, whether reported or unreported (although actual settlement of the claims may not be made until future periods) and may be subsequently revised based on developments relating to such claims. The group captive is subject to a third-party actuarial study retained by the captive manager, independent from the Company. For the high deductible insurance program, the Company contracts with an independent third-party actuary to provide the Company an estimated liability based upon historical claims information. The actuarial study is a major consideration in establishing the reserve, along with management’s knowledge of changes in business practice and existing claims compared to current balances. Management’s judgment is inherently subjective as a number of factors are outside management’s knowledge and control. Additionally, historical information is not always an accurate indication of future events. The Company continues to be proactive in safety and risk management to develop and maintain ongoing programs to reduce and prevent incidents and claims. Initiatives that have been implemented include required pre-employment screening and ongoing motor vehicle record review for all drivers, post-offer physicals for new employees, pre-hire, random and post incident drug testing, driver training and post-injury nurse triage for work-related injuries. The accruals and reserves we hold are based on estimates that involve a degree of judgment and are inherently variable and could be overestimated or insufficient. If actual claims exceed our estimates, our operating results could be materially affected, and our ability to take timely corrective actions to limit future costs may be limited. Business Combinations— We account for business combinations by recognizing the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date fair value. In valuing certain acquired assets and liabilities, fair value estimates use significant, non-observable inputs (Level 3), including future expected cash flows and discount rates. Goodwill is measured as the excess of consideration transferred over the fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. While we use our best estimates and assumptions to value assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date, our estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we may record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period, any subsequent adjustments arising from new facts and circumstances are recorded to the consolidated statements of operations. The results of operations of acquisitions are reflected in our consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. Accounting for business combinations requires our management to make significant estimates and assumptions about intangible assets, assets and obligations assumed, contingent consideration, and other contingencies. Critical inputs and assumptions in valuing certain of the intangible assets include, but are not limited to, future expected cash flows from customer contracts; the acquired Company’s trademarks & tradenames, and competitive position, as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired trademarks & tradenames will continue to be used in the combined Company’s product portfolio; and discount rates. These significant assumptions are forward-looking and could be affected by future economic and market conditions. 32 Recent Accounting Guidance and Other Policies and Estimates See Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the accompanying financial statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) for further discussion.