********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

An investment in our common stock involves certain risks. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You are cautioned that the risk factors discussed below are not exhaustive. Risks Related to our Business, Brand, Industry and Operations We face risks regarding our ability to maintain our competitive position in the pest control industry in the future. We operate in a highly competitive industry. Our revenues and earnings are affected by changes in competitors’ prices and general economic issues. We compete with other large pest control companies, as well as numerous smaller pest control companies, for a finite number of customers. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the market areas that we serve are quality and speed of service, customer proximity, customer satisfaction, brand awareness and reputation, terms of guarantees, safety, technical proficiency and price. Although we believe that our experience, safety and quality service are excellent, we cannot assure investors that we will be able to maintain our competitive position in the future and any competitive pressures we may face could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to identify, complete or successfully integrate acquisitions or guarantee that any acquisitions will achieve the anticipated financial benefits, all of which could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions have been and may continue to be an important element of our business strategy. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to identify and acquire acceptable acquisition targets on terms favorable to us in the future, or that any acquisitions will achieve the anticipated financial benefits. Our inability to achieve the anticipated financial benefits from any acquisition transactions may not be realized due to any number of factors, including, but not limited to, unsuccessful integration efforts, unexpected or underestimated liabilities or increased costs, fees, expenses and charges related to such transactions. Such adverse events could result in a decrease in the estimated fair value of goodwill or other intangible assets established as a result of such transactions, triggering an impairment. These and other factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Expanding into international markets presents unique challenges, and our expansion efforts with respect to international operations may not be successful. An element of our business includes further expansion into international markets. Our ability to successfully operate in international markets may be adversely affected by political, economic and social conditions beyond our control, local laws and customs, and legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with applicable anti-corruption and currency laws and regulations of the countries or regions in which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. Risks inherent in our existing and future international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, difficulties in identifying and gaining access to local suppliers, suffering possible adverse tax consequences from changes in tax laws or the unfavorable resolution of tax assessments or audits, maintaining product quality and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. Additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our financial results. Our business depends on our strong brands and failing to maintain and enhance our brands and develop a positive client reputation could hurt our ability to retain and expand our base of customers. Our strong brands, Orkin, HomeTeam Pest Defense, Clark Pest Control, Northwest Exterminating, Trutech, Western Pest Services, The Industrial Fumigant Company (IFC), Waltham Services, Okolona Pest Control (OPC), Critter Control, and others, have significantly 10 ​ contributed to the success of our business.  Maintaining and enhancing our brands increases our ability to enter new markets and launch new and innovative services that better serve the needs of our customers.  Our brands may be negatively impacted by a number of factors, including, among others, reputational issues and product/technical failures.  Further, if our brands are significantly damaged, our reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.  We continue to develop strategies and innovative tools to gain a deeper understanding of customer acquisition and retention in order to more effectively expand and retain our customer base. Maintaining and enhancing our brands will depend largely on our brands’ ability to remain a service leader and continue to provide high-quality pest control services that are truly beneficial and play a meaningful role in people’s lives. Our franchisees, subcontractors, and vendors could take actions that could harm our business. Our franchisees, subcontractors, and vendors are contractually obligated to operate their businesses in accordance with the standards set forth in our agreements with them and applicable laws and regulations. Each of our brands that are franchised also provides training and support to franchisees. However, franchisees, subcontractors, and vendors are independent third parties that we do not control, and who own, operate and oversee the daily operations of their businesses, and the ultimate success of any business operation rests with the business owner. If franchisees do not successfully operate their businesses in a manner consistent with required standards, royalty payments owed to us will be adversely affected and our brands’ image and reputation could be harmed. This could materially adversely impact our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Similarly, if franchisees, subcontractors, and vendors do not successfully operate their businesses in a manner consistent with required laws, standards and regulations, we could be subject to claims from regulators or legal claims for the actions or omissions of such third-party franchisees, subcontractors, and vendors. In addition, our relationship with our franchisees, subcontractors, and vendors could become strained (including resulting in litigation) as we impose new standards or assert more rigorous enforcement practices of the existing required standards. These strains in our relationships or any resulting claims could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. From time to time, we receive communications from our franchisees regarding complaints, disputes or questions about our practices and standards in relation to our franchised operations and certain economic terms of our franchise arrangements. If franchisees or groups representing franchisees were to bring legal proceedings against us, our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Labor shortages and/or our ability to attract and retain skilled workers may impair growth potential and profitability. Our ability to remain productive and profitable will depend substantially on our ability to compete with other pest control companies to attract and retain skilled workers, create leadership opportunities and successfully implement diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives. Our ability to expand our operations is in part impacted by our ability to increase our labor force. The demand for employees is high, and the supply is limited. Ongoing labor shortages could negatively affect our ability to efficiently operate at full capacity or lead to increased costs, such as increased overtime to meet demand and increased wage rates to attract and retain employees. A significant increase in the wages paid and benefits offered by competing employers could also result in a reduction in our labor force, increases in our labor costs, or both. Prolonged labor shortages, increased turnover or labor inflation could diminish our profitability and impair our growth potential which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, decisions and rules by the National Labor Relations Board, including “expedited elections” and restrictions on appeals, could lead to increased organizing activities at our subsidiaries. If these labor organizing activities are successful, it could further increase labor costs, decrease operating efficiency and productivity in the future, or otherwise disrupt or negatively impact our operations which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business. Climate change and unfavorable weather conditions could adversely impact our financial results. Our operations are directly impacted by the weather conditions worldwide, including catastrophic events, natural disasters and potential impacts from climate change. Climate change continues to receive increasing global attention. The possible effects of climate change could include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing storm patterns and intensities, changing temperature levels and changes in legislation, regulation, and international accords, all of which could adversely impact our costs and business operations. The business of our Company is also affected by seasonality associated with our pest and termite control services. The increase in pest presence and activity, as well as the metamorphosis of termites in the spring and summer (the occurrence of which is determined by the 11 ​ timing of the change in seasons), has historically resulted in an increase in the revenue and income of our pest and termite control operations during such periods. The business of the Company is also affected by extreme weather such as drought which can greatly reduce the pest population for extended periods. Because of the uncertainty of weather volatility related to climate change and any resulting unfavorable weather conditions, we cannot predict its potential impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to the Global Economy and Public Health Crises The effects of a pandemic, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, or other major public health concern, could materially impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. The impact of a pandemic, such as COVID-19, or other major public health concerns, including changes in consumer behavior and discretionary spending, market downturns, and restrictions on business and individual activities, could create significant volatility in the global economy. Additionally, government or regulatory responses to pandemics or other public health concerns, such as mandatory lockdowns, vaccine mandates or other restrictions on operations, could negatively impact our business. The ultimate impact of a pandemic or other major public health concern also depends on events beyond our knowledge or control, including the duration and severity of such pandemics and other major public health concerns, and related remedial or containment measures taken by parties other than us to respond to them, and in the case of COVID-19, on the emergence and spread of COVID-19 variants and the effectiveness of vaccines. We are unable to completely predict the full impact that a pandemic, or other major public health concern will have on our business due to numerous uncertainties. In addition, our compliance with remedial or containment measures could impact our day-to-day operations and could disrupt our business and operations, as well as that of our customers and suppliers, for an indefinite period of time. Furthermore, labor force availability may be impaired due to exposure, reluctance to comply with governmental, regulatory or contractual mandates, or other restrictions, which could negatively affect our operating costs and profitability or negatively impact our ability to provide quality services.  Any of these disruptions could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Adverse economic conditions, including inflation and restrictions in customer discretionary expenditures, increases in interest rates or other disruptions in credit or financial markets, increases in fuel prices, raw material costs, or other operating costs could materially adversely affect our business. Economic downturns may adversely affect our commercial customers, including food service, hospitality and food processing industries whose business levels are particularly sensitive to adverse economies. For example, we may lose commercial customers and related revenues because of consolidation or cessation of commercial businesses or because these businesses switch to a lower cost provider.  Pest and termite services represent discretionary expenditures to many of our residential customers. If consumers restrict their discretionary expenditures, due to inflation or other economic hardships, we may suffer a decline in revenues from our residential service lines. Disruptions in credit or financial markets could make it more difficult for us to obtain, or increase the cost of obtaining, financing in the future. Increases in interest rates may cause a reduction in new home construction or real estate transactions, which could result in a decrease in revenue. In addition, there can be no assurances that fuel prices, raw material costs, or other operating costs, all of which may be subject to inflationary pressures, will not materially increase in future years and we cannot predict the extent to which any such future increases could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Cybersecurity, Privacy Compliance and Business Disruptions The Company, its wholly-owned subsidiaries, third-party business partners and service providers have been subject to cybersecurity incidents in the past and could be the targets of future attacks which could result in the disruption to the Company’s business operations, economic and reputational damage, and possible fines, penalties and private litigation, if there is unauthorized access to or unintentional distribution of personal, financial, proprietary, confidential, or other protected data or information the Company is entrusted to keep about its customers, employees, business practices, or third parties. Our internal information technology (“IT”) systems contain certain personal, financial, health, or other protected and confidential information that is entrusted to us by our customers and employees.  Our IT systems also contain the Company’s and its wholly-owned 12 ​ subsidiaries’ proprietary and other confidential information related to our business, such as business plans, customer lists and product and service development initiatives. From time to time, we have integration with new IT systems due to organic growth and acquisitions. In addition, we grant third-party business partners and service providers access to confidential information in order to facilitate business operations and administer employee benefits.  Employees, third-party business partners, and service providers can knowingly or unknowingly disseminate such information or serve as an entry point for bad actors to access such information. Our privacy compliance and digital risk management initiatives focus on the threats and risks to enterprise information and the underlying IT systems processing such information as part of the implementation of business processes.  The Company also relies on, among other things, commercially available vendors, cybersecurity protection systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of protected information and data. The systems currently used for transmission and approval of payment card transactions, and the technology utilized in payment cards themselves, all of which can put payment card data at risk, meet standards set by the payment card industry (“PCI”). We have also implemented policies and procedures, internal training, system controls, and monitoring and audit processes to protect the Company from internal and external vulnerabilities and to comply with consumer privacy laws in the areas in which we operate.  Further, the Company limits retention of certain data, encrypts certain data and otherwise protects information to comply with consumer privacy laws in the areas in which we operate. We continue to evaluate and modify our systems and protocols for data security compliance purposes, and such standards may change from time to time. We monitor certain third-party business partners and service providers for compliance and vulnerabilities.  Activities by bad actors, changes in computer and software capabilities and encryption technology, new tools and discoveries, cloud applications, changes in multi-jurisdictional regulations, and other events or developments may result in a compromise or breach of our systems. Any compromises, breaches, application errors or human mistakes related to our systems or failures to comply with applicable standards could not only disrupt our financial operations, including our customers’ ability to pay for our services and products by credit card or their willingness to purchase our services and products, but could also result in violations of applicable laws, regulations, orders, industry standards or agreements and subject us to costs, penalties and liabilities which could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A breach of data security or failure to comply with rigorous multi-jurisdictional consumer privacy requirements could expose us to customer litigation, regulatory actions and costs related to the reporting and handling of such a violation or breach. Furthermore, while we maintain cybersecurity insurance, our insurance may not cover all liabilities incurred due to a security breach or incident and this could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Certain Intellectual Property Rights Our brand recognition or reputation could be impacted if we are not able to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights that are material to our business. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on our rights to service marks, trademarks, trade names and other intellectual property rights we own or license. Although we have sought to register or protect many of our marks either in the United States or in the countries in which they are or may be used, we have not sought to protect our marks in every country. Furthermore, because of the differences in foreign trademark, patent and other intellectual property or proprietary rights laws, we may not receive the same protection in other countries as we would in the United States. If we are unable to protect our proprietary information and brand names, we could suffer a material adverse effect to our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and protect our proprietary information, or to defend against claims by third parties that our products, services or activities infringe their intellectual property rights. Risks Related to Legal, Regulatory and Risk Management Matters Our business is subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations pertaining to environmental, public health and safety matters, including those related to the pest control industry, and any noncompliance with, changes to, or increased enforcement of such laws, could significantly impact our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. Our business is subject to various federal, state, and local laws and regulations pertaining to environmental, public health and safety matters, including those related to the pest control industry. Among other things, these laws also govern the use, storage, treatment, disposal, transportation and management of certain pesticides and hazardous substances and waste and regulate the emission or discharge of materials into the environment. In addition, the use of certain pesticide products is also regulated by various international, federal, 13 ​ state, provincial and local environmental and public health agencies.  These regulations may also apply to our third-party suppliers. Penalties for noncompliance with these laws may include criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including, but not limited to, cancellation of licenses, fines, and other corrective actions, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. In addition, in recent years, a number of new laws and regulations have been adopted, there has been expanded enforcement of certain existing laws and regulations by federal, state and local agencies, and the interpretation of certain laws and regulations have become increasingly complex. Noncompliance with, changes in, expanded enforcement of, or adoption of new federal, state or local laws and regulations governing hazardous waste disposal and other environmental matters, could result in operational changes and increased costs that might significantly impact our business, financial condition or reputation. New or proposed regulation regarding climate change, could have uncertain impacts on our business, financial condition and reputation. Climate change has been the subject of increased focus by various governmental authorities and regulators around the world. In particular, the US is considering the enactment of legislative and regulatory proposals that would impose requirements on greenhouse gas emissions. Such laws, if enacted, are likely to impact our business in a number of ways. For example, we use gasoline and electricity in conducting our operations. Increased government regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions may result in increased compliance costs and legislation or regulation affecting energy inputs, which could materially affect our profitability. Further the SEC has proposed rule amendments that would implement a framework for reporting of climate-related risks and create new climate-related disclosure obligations for all registrants, including us. Compliance with any new or more stringent laws or requirements, or stricter interpretations of existing laws, could require additional expenditures by us or our suppliers. Our inability to appropriately respond to such changes could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  We cannot predict how the proposed rules, if finalized, or any future legislation or regulations pertaining to climate change, will ultimately affect our business, financial condition including results of operations and cash flows, or reputation. We are from time to time subject to lawsuits, investigations and other proceedings which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the normal course of business, we are involved in various claims, contractual disputes, investigations, arbitrations and litigation, including claims that our acts, omissions, services or vehicles caused damage or injury, claims that our services did not achieve the desired results, claims related to acquisitions, allegations by federal, state or local authorities, including the Securities and Exchange Commission, of violations of regulations or statutes, claims related to wage and hour law violations and claims related to environmental matters.  These claims, proceedings or litigation, either alone or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Additionally, our business is significantly affected by and subject to regulation by various federal, state, provincial, regional and local governments in the countries in which we operate, including, but not limited to, environmental laws, antitrust laws, consumer protection laws, employment laws, including wage and hour laws, payroll taxes and anti-discrimination laws, immigration, human health and safety laws and other regulations relating to the pest control industry. We are unable to predict whether such laws will, in the future, materially affect our operations and financial condition. Risks Related to our Capital and Ownership Structure A control group that includes members of Company’s Board of Directors and management has a majority ownership interest; public stockholders may have no effective voice in the Company’s management. The Company has elected the “Controlled Company” exemption under Section 303A of the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) Listed Company Manual. The Company is a “Controlled Company” because a group that includes the Company’s Executive Chairman of the Board, Gary W. Rollins, Board member, Pam Rollins, and certain persons acting as a group with them (the “Controlling Group”), controls in excess of fifty percent of the Company’s voting power. As a “Controlled Company,” the Company need not comply with certain NYSE rules, including, without limitation, the requirements that the Company have a majority of independent directors, and an independent compensation and nominating committee of the Board. The Controlling Group holds directly, or through indirect beneficial ownership, in the aggregate, approximately 51 percent of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock as of December 31, 2022. As a result, these persons will effectively control the 14 ​ operations of the Company, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions such as acquisitions and approval of matters requiring stockholder approval. This concentration of ownership could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control of the Company at a premium. A Controlling Group has a substantial ownership interest, and the availability of the Company’s common stock to the investing public may be limited. The availability of Rollins’ common stock to the investing public is limited to those shares not held by the Controlling Group, which could negatively impact Rollins’ stock trading prices and affect the ability of minority stockholders to sell their shares. Future sales by the Controlling Group of all or a portion of their shares could also negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. The Controlling Group could take various actions or engage in certain transactions that could negatively impact our common stock price, cause volatility in the market for our common stock or have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and our financial condition. The Controlling Group may from time to time and at any time, in their sole discretion, acquire or cause to be acquired, additional equity or other instruments of the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates, or derivative instruments the value of which is linked to Company securities, or dispose or cause to be disposed, such equity or other securities or instruments, in any amount that the Controlling Group may determine in their sole discretion, through open market transactions, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. In addition, depending upon a variety of factors, the Controlling Group may at any time engage in discussions with the Company and its affiliates, and other persons, including retained outside advisers, concerning the Company’s business, management, strategic alternatives and direction, and in their sole discretion, consider, formulate and implement various plans or proposals intended to enhance the value of their investment in the Company, including, among other things, proposing or effecting any matter that would constitute or result in: (i) the acquisition by any person of additional securities of the Company or the disposition of securities of the Company, in addition to the possible normal course dissolution of additional entities for estate or tax planning purposes; (ii) an extraordinary corporate transaction, such as a merger, reorganization or liquidation, involving the Company or any subsidiary thereof; (iii) a sale or transfer of a material amount of assets of the Company or any subsidiary thereof; (iv) a change in the present board of directors or management of the Company, including any plans or proposals to change the number or term of directors or to fill any existing vacancies on the board; (v) a material change in the present capitalization or dividend policy of the Company; (vi)  other material changes in the Company’s business or corporate structure; (vii) changes in the Company’s charter, bylaws, or instruments corresponding thereto, or other actions which may impede the acquisition of control of the Company by any person; (viii) causing a class of securities of the Company to be delisted from a national securities exchange or to cease to be authorized to be quoted in an inter-dealer quotation system of a registered national securities association; or (ix) a class of equity securities of the Company becoming eligible for termination of registration pursuant to Section 12(g)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In the event the Controlling Group were to engage in any of the actions enumerated above, our common stock price could be negatively impacted, such actions could cause volatility in the market for our common stock or could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition. Certain provisions in Rollins, Inc.’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws may inhibit a takeover of the Company. Rollins, Inc.’s certificate of incorporation, bylaws and other documents contain provisions including advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and staggered terms for the Board of Directors. These provisions may make a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by the Company’s Board of Directors more difficult or expensive. ​

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Presentation This discussion should be read in conjunction with our audited financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this document. Discussions of 2020 items and year-to-year comparisons of 2021 and 2020 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 on our Annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. The following discussion (as well as other discussions in this document) contains forward-looking statements. Please see “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” for a discussion of uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these statements. The Company Rollins, Inc. (“Rollins,” “we,” “us,” “our,” or the “Company”), is an international services company headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia that provides pest and termite control services to both residential and commercial customers through its wholly-owned subsidiaries and independent franchises in the United States, Canada, Australia, Europe, and Asia with international franchises in Canada, Central and South America, the Caribbean, Europe, the Middle East, Asia, Africa, and Australia. Our pest and termite control services are performed pursuant to terms of contracts that specify the pricing arrangement with the customer. The Company operates as one reportable segment and the results of operations and its financial condition are not reliant upon any single customer. General Operating Comments We finished 2022 with record revenue of $2.7 billion.  We have consistently grown revenue and 2022 represented another strong year for growth.  We experienced strong growth across all major service lines driving 11% total growth in revenues.  Residential service revenue increased 10%, commercial revenue growth was also 10% and termite and ancillary revenue growth was 15%. Income before income taxes increased 3.4% to $498.9 million compared to $482.5 million the prior year. Net income increased 3.4% to $368.6 million, with earnings per diluted share of $0.75 compared to $356.6 million, or $0.72 per diluted share for the prior year. Operating cash flow remained strong in 2022 and finished at $465.9 million up from $401.8 million in 2021. We repaid debt by $100 million in 2022, we paid $119 million for 31 acquisitions in 2022 and a final payment on a 2021 acquisition, and continued to increase dividends to investors. The Company paid dividends to investors of $0.43 per diluted share in 2022 as compared to $0.42 per diluted share for the prior year, resulting in a 2.4% increase in dividends per share. While we continue to monitor macro-economic and other risks facing our business, we are starting 2023 with a strong foundation.  Demand remains strong in our business with revenue growth of 11% in January 2023. Our balance sheet also provides us flexibility with debt remaining at very low levels to start the new year.  We plan to evaluate opportunities to renegotiate our current credit facility that will be expiring in April 2024.  Our pipeline for acquisitions is strong and we remain very well positioned to drive growth across all of our service lines in 2023. IMPACT OF THE PANDEMIC AND OTHER ECONOMIC TRENDS The global spread and unprecedented impact of COVID-19 has continued to create uncertainty and economic disruption around the world during 2022. We have and will continue to monitor COVID-19 and may again take actions that may alter our operations, including those that may be required by federal, state, or local authorities, or that we determine are in the best interests of our employees and customers. We do not know when, or if, it will become practical to eliminate all of these measures entirely as there is no guarantee that COVID-19 will be fully contained. In addition, continued disruption in economic markets due to high inflation, increases in interest rates, increased fuel costs, business interruptions due to natural disasters, employee shortages and supply chain issues, all pose challenges which may adversely affect our future performance. The Company continues to carry out various strategies previously implemented to help mitigate the impact of these economic disruptors, including revamping its routing and scheduling process to decrease the number of miles per stop, advanced scheduling to compensate for employee and vehicle shortages, and maintaining higher purchasing levels to allow for sufficient inventory. 19 ​ However, the Company cannot reasonably estimate whether these strategies will help mitigate the impact of these economic disruptors in the future. The Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements reflect estimates and assumptions made by management that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and related disclosures as of the date of the condensed consolidated financial statements. The Company considered the impact of COVID-19 and other economic trends on the assumptions and estimates used in preparing the condensed consolidated financial statements. In the opinion of management, all material adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial results for the year have been made. These adjustments are of a normal recurring nature but complicated by the continued uncertainty surrounding COVID-19 and other economic trends. The severity, magnitude and duration of certain economic trends, as well as the economic consequences of COVID-19, continue to be uncertain and are difficult to predict. Therefore, our accounting estimates and assumptions may change over time in response to COVID-19 and other economic trends and may change materially in future periods. The extent to which COVID-19, increasing interest rates, inflation and other economic trends will continue to impact the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations is uncertain. Therefore, we cannot reasonably estimate the full future impacts of these matters at this time. Results of Operations—2022 Versus 2021 ​ ​ 20 ​ Revenues The following presents a summary of revenues by product and service offering and revenues by geography: ​ Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2022 were $2.7 billion, an increase of $271.5 million, or 11.2%, from 2021 revenues of $2.4 billion. Comparing 2022 to 2021, residential pest control revenue increased 10%, commercial pest control revenue increased 10% and termite and ancillary services grew 15%. The Company’s foreign operations accounted for approximately 7% and 8% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Gross Profit Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $1.4 billion, an increase of $125.7 million, or 10.0%, compared to $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021.  Gross margin was 51.5% in 2022 compared to 52.0% in 2021. For the year, we saw higher expenses associated with casualty reserves and people cost, notably medical costs.  Excluding the increases we experienced in these areas, strategic pricing efforts helped offset inflationary pressures we experienced in fleet, material and other people associated costs.  We remain focused on executing our pricing strategies and expect to pull forward our price increase again in 2023 and expect to raise prices for services in the first quarter. Sales, General and Administrative For the twelve months ended December 31, 2022, sales, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased $75.2 million, or 10.3%, compared to the twelve months ended December 31, 2021. As a percentage of revenue, SG&A decreased to 29.8% from 30.0% in the prior year. Despite investing in additional people, advertising and other customer facing activities to drive growth, we saw an 21 ​ improvement in SG&A as a percentage of sales as we continue to manage our cost structure. Although casualty reserves and people costs, notably medical costs, had an impact on SG&A, they had a lesser impact on SG&A than cost of services. Depreciation and Amortization For the twelve months ended December 31, 2022, depreciation and amortization increased $4.8 million, or 5.5%, compared to the twelve months ended December 31, 2021. The increase was due to the additional amortization of customer contracts from several acquisitions offset by a decrease in the depreciation of operating equipment and internal-use software. Operating Income For the twelve months ended December 31, 2022, operating income increased $45.8 million or 10.2% compared to the prior year. As a percentage of revenue, operating income decreased to 18.3% from 18.5% in the prior year. The increase in revenue was offset primarily by an increase in expense associated with the casualty reserve as well as medical costs for people.  Without these additional costs, pricing initiatives helped offset inflationary pressures we experienced in fleet, material and other people associated costs. Interest Expense, Net During the twelve months ended December 31, 2022, interest expense, net increased $1.8 million compared to the prior year, primarily due to the increase in weighted average interest rates which was partially offset by the lower average debt balance in 2022 compared to 2021. Other Income, Net During the twelve months ended December 31, 2022, other income decreased $27.5 million primarily due to the Company recognizing a $31.5 million gain in the prior year related to multiple sale-leaseback transactions where the Company sold and leased back properties that it acquired in 2019 with the Clark Pest Control acquisition. Income Taxes The Company’s effective tax rate was 26.1% in both 2022 and 2021. The 2022 rate was favorably impacted by lower foreign income taxes and officer’s compensation deductions, offset by an increase in state income taxes and lower restricted stock adjustments. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash and Cash Flow The Company’s $95.3 million of total cash at December 31, 2022 is held at various banking institutions. Approximately $68.6 million is held in cash accounts at international bank institutions and the remaining $26.7 million is held in Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) insured non-interest-bearing accounts at various domestic banks which at times exceed federally insured amounts. The Company’s international business is expanding, and we intend to continue to grow the business in foreign markets in the future through reinvestment of foreign deposits and future earnings as well as acquisitions of unrelated companies. The Company has historically asserted that the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries are permanently reinvested.  However, in the fourth quarter of 2022, the Company has partially changed this assertion and expects to repatriate unremitted foreign earnings from our foreign subsidiaries. The Company asserts that we continue to be permanently reinvested with respect to our investments in our foreign subsidiaries. In April 2019, the Company entered into a Revolving Credit Agreement with Truist Bank N.A. (formerly SunTrust Bank N.A.) and Bank of America, N.A. (the “2019 Credit Agreement”) for an unsecured revolving commitment of up to $175.0 million, which includes a $75.0 million letter of credit subfacility and a $25.0 million swingline subfacility (the “Revolving Commitment”), and an unsecured variable rate $250.0 million term loan (the “Term Loan”). On January 27, 2022, the Company entered into an amendment (the “Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement with Truist Bank and Bank of America, N.A. whereby additional term loans in an aggregate principal amount of $252.0 million were advanced to the Company. The Amendment also replaced LIBOR as the benchmark interest 22 ​ rate for borrowings with the Bloomberg Short-Term Bank Yield Index rate (“BSBY”) and reset the amortization schedule for all term loans under the Credit Agreement. As of December 31, 2022, the Company had outstanding borrowings of $54.9 million under the Term Loan and there were no outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Commitment. The aggregate effective interest rate on the debt outstanding as of December 31, 2022 was 5.123%. The effective interest rate is comprised of the BSBY plus a margin of 75.0 basis points as determined by the Company’s leverage ratio calculation. As of December 31, 2021, the Revolving Commitment had outstanding borrowings of $107.0 million and the Term Loan had outstanding borrowings of $48.0 million. The Company maintains approximately $71.3 million in letters of credit as of December 31, 2022. These letters of credit are required by the Company’s insurance companies, due to the Company’s high deductible insurance program, to secure various workers’ compensation and casualty insurance contracts coverage and were increased from $37.2 million as of December 31, 2021. The Company believes that it has adequate liquid assets, funding sources and insurance accruals to accommodate potential future insurance claims. In order to comply with applicable debt covenants, the Company is required to maintain at all times a leverage ratio of not greater than 3.00:1.00. The leverage ratio is calculated as of the last day of the fiscal quarter most recently ended. The Company remained in compliance with applicable debt covenants at December 31, 2022. We plan to evaluate opportunities to renegotiate our credit facility that will be expiring in April 2024. The following table sets forth a summary of our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2022 and 2021: ​ Cash Provided by Operating Activities Cash from operating activities is the principal source of cash generation for our businesses. The most significant source of cash in our cash flow from operations is customer-related activities, the largest of which is collecting cash resulting from services sold. The most significant operating use of cash is to pay our suppliers, employees, and tax and regulatory authorities. The Company’s operations generated cash of $465.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared with cash provided by operating activities of $401.8 million in 2021. The $64.1 million increase was driven primarily by strong operating results and the timing of cash receipts from customers and cash payments to vendors, employees, and tax and regulatory authorities. Cash Used in Investing Activities The Company used $134.1 million of cash in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2022 and used $99.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The Company invested approximately $30.6 million in capital expenditures during 2022 compared to $27.2 million during 2021. Capital expenditures for the year consisted primarily of property purchases, equipment replacements and technology-related projects. Cash paid for acquisitions totaled $119.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to $146.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The expenditures for the Company’s acquisitions were funded through existing cash balances and operating cash flows. The Company remains very active in evaluating opportunities for acquisitions and expects to make additional acquisitions in 2023. The year ended December 31, 2021 included approximately $67 million in cash proceeds from the sale of assets related to the Clark Pest Control property sale-leaseback transactions. Cash Used in Financing Activities The Company used $336.0 million of cash in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2022 and $290.2 million in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2021. The Company made net debt repayments of $100.0 million during the year ended 23 ​ December 31, 2022, compared to net repayments of $48.0 million during 2021. A total of $211.6 million was paid in cash dividends, $0.43 per share, during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to $208.7 million in cash dividends paid, $0.42 per share, during the year ended December 31, 2021. In 2012, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to 5 million shares of the Company’s common stock. After adjustments for stock splits, the total authorized shares under the share repurchase plan are 16.9 million shares. The Company did not purchase shares on the open market during the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020. There remain 11.4 million shares authorized to be repurchased under prior Board approval and the repurchase plan does not expire. The Company repurchased $7.1 million, $10.7 million, and $8.3 million of common stock for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, from employees for the payment of taxes on vesting restricted shares. Rollins maintains adequate liquidity and capital resources, without regard to its foreign deposits, that are directed to finance domestic operations and obligations and to fund expansion of its domestic business. The Company believes its current cash and cash equivalents balances, future cash flows expected to be generated from operating activities, and available borrowings under its $175 million revolving credit facility and $300 million term loan facility will be sufficient to finance its current operations and obligations, and fund expansion of the business for the foreseeable future. We expect to maintain compliance with applicable debt covenants throughout 2023. Litigation For discussion on the Company’s legal contingencies, see Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the accompanying financial statements, and Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings. Contractual Obligations and Contingent Liabilities and Commitments The impact that the Company’s contractual obligations as of December 31, 2022 are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods is as follows: ​ Critical Accounting Estimates The Company views critical accounting estimates to be those that are very important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations, and that require management’s most difficult, complex or subjective judgments. The circumstances that make these judgments difficult or complex relate to the need for management to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. We believe our critical accounting estimate to be as follows: Accrued Insurance— The Company retains, up to specified limits, certain risks related to general liability, workers’ compensation and auto liability. Risks are managed through either high deductible insurance or, for Clark Pest Control only, a non-affiliated group captive insurance member arrangement. The estimated costs of existing and future claims under the retained loss program are accrued based upon historical trends as incidents occur, whether reported or unreported (although actual settlement of the claims may not be made until future periods) and may be subsequently revised based on developments relating to such claims. The group captive is subject to a third-party actuary retained by the captive manager, independent from the Company.  For the high deductible insurance program, the Company contracts with an independent third-party actuary to provide the Company an estimated liability based upon historical claims information. The actuarial study is a major consideration in establishing the reserve, along with management’s knowledge of changes in business practice and existing claims compared to current balances. Management’s judgment is inherently subjective as a number of factors are outside management’s knowledge and control. Additionally, historical information is not always an accurate indication of future events. The Company continues to be proactive in safety and risk management to develop and maintain ongoing programs to reduce and prevent incidents and claims. Initiatives that have been implemented include required pre-employment screening and ongoing 24 ​ motor vehicle record review for all drivers, post-offer physicals for new employees, pre-hire, random and post incident drug testing, driver training and post-injury nurse triage for work-related injuries. The accruals and reserves we hold are based on estimates that involve a degree of judgment and are inherently variable and could be overestimated or insufficient. If actual claims exceed our estimates, our operating results could be materially affected, and our ability to take timely corrective actions to limit future costs may be limited. Recent Accounting Guidance and Other Policies and Estimates See Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) for further discussion. ​