********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Risks Related to Our Business Operations Our growth strategy includes acquisitions. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions successfully. Our future growth is likely to depend to some degree on our ability to acquire and successfully integrate new businesses. We intend to seek additional acquisition opportunities, both to expand into new markets and to enhance our position in existing markets. There are no assurances, however, that we will be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate terms, obtain financing on acceptable terms, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses or expand into new markets. Once acquired, operations may not achieve anticipated levels of revenues, profitability or cash flows. Acquisitions involve risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular transaction, including but not limited to cyber risks, there are no assurances that we will properly ascertain all such risks. Acquisitions may involve significant cash expenditures, debt 9 incurrences, equity issuances and expenses. Difficulties encountered with acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our technology is important to our success and our failure to protect this technology could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Many of our products and services rely on proprietary technology; therefore we believe that the development and protection of intellectual property rights through patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks, confidentiality agreements and other contractual provisions are important to the future success of our business. Despite our efforts to protect proprietary rights, unauthorized parties or competitors may copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. Actions to enforce these rights may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, and we make no assurances that any such actions will be successful. Unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates may harm our business. Several of our operating companies have transactions and balances denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Most of these transactions and balances are denominated in euros, Canadian dollars, or British pounds. Sales by our operating companies whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar represented 11% and 12% of our total net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Unfavorable changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and those currencies could significantly reduce our reported revenues and earnings. We rely on information and technology, including third-party cloud computing platforms, for many of our business operations which could fail and cause disruption to our business operations. Our business operations are dependent upon information technology networks and systems to securely transmit, process and store electronic information and to communicate among our locations around the world and with clients and suppliers. A shutdown of, or inability to access, one or more of our facilities, a power outage or a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis. Our compliance, cyber and data privacy programs, cybersecurity technology and risk management cannot eliminate all system risk. Cyberattacks, configuration or human error and/or other external hazards could result in the misappropriation of assets or sensitive information, corruption of data or operational disruption. We increasingly rely on third-party data centers and cloud platforms, such as Amazon Web Services, Google Cloud Platform, and Microsoft Azure to host enterprise and customer systems. Our ability to monitor such third parties’ security measures and the full impact of the systemic risk is limited. If any cloud platform that we use is unavailable to us for any reason, our customers may experience service interruptions, which could significantly impact our operations, reputation, business, and financial results. Failure of our systems or those of our third-party service providers, may result in interruptions in our service and loss of data or processing capabilities, all of which may cause a loss in customers, refunds of product fees, material harm to our reputation and operating results. Global cybersecurity threats are rapidly evolving and becoming increasingly more sophisticated and attacks to networks, systems and endpoints can range from uncoordinated individual attempts to sophisticated and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats, directed at the Company, its businesses, its customers and/or its third-party service providers, including, but not limited to, cloud providers and providers of network management services. These may include such things as unauthorized access, phishing attacks, denial of service, introduction of malware or ransomware and other disruptive problems caused by threat actors. While we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, these types of threats and incidents, none of them to date have been material to the Company. We seek to deploy measures to protect, detect, respond and recover from cyber threats, including identity and access controls, data protection, vulnerability management, incident response, secure product development, continuous monitoring of our networks, endpoints and systems, and maintenance of resilient backup and recovery capabilities. Our customers are increasingly requiring cybersecurity protections and mandating cybersecurity standards in our products and services, and we may incur additional costs to comply with such demands. Despite these efforts, we can make no assurance that we will be able to mitigate, detect, prevent, timely and adequately respond, or fully recover from the negative effects of cyberattacks or other security compromises, and such cybersecurity incidents, depending on their nature and scope, could potentially result in the misappropriation, destruction, corruption or unavailability of critical data and confidential or proprietary information (our own or that of third parties) and the disruption of business operations. The potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include financial loss, reputational damage, damage to our IT systems, data loss, litigation with third parties, theft of intellectual property, fines, diminution in the value of our investment in research and development, and increased cybersecurity 10 protection and remediation costs due to the increasing sophistication and proliferation of threats, which in turn could adversely affect our competitiveness and results of operations. Any imposition of liability, particularly liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of insurance coverage, could materially harm our operating results and financial condition. Product liability, insurance risks and increased insurance costs could harm our operating results. Our business exposes us to product liability risks in the design, manufacture and distribution of our products. We currently have product liability insurance; however, we may not be able to maintain our insurance at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to adequately protect us against losses. We also maintain other insurance policies, including directors’ and officers’ liability insurance and cyber insurance. We believe we have adequately accrued estimated losses, principally related to deductible amounts under our insurance policies, with respect to all product liability and other claims, based upon our past experience and available facts. However, a successful product liability or other claim or series of claims brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a significant increase in our insurance costs or the imposition of a liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of insurance coverage, could have an adverse impact on our operating results. Our operating results could be adversely affected by a reduction of business with our large customers. In some of our businesses, we derive a significant amount of revenue from large customers. The loss or reduction of any significant contracts with any of these customers could reduce our revenues and cash flows. Additionally, many of our customers are government entities. In many situations, government entities can unilaterally terminate or modify our existing contracts without cause and without penalty to the government agency. We face intense competition. If we do not compete effectively, our business may suffer. We face intense competition from numerous competitors in our various businesses. Our products compete primarily on the basis of product quality, performance, innovation, technology, price, applications expertise, system and service flexibility, distribution channel access and established customer service capabilities. We may not be able to compete effectively on all of these fronts or with all of our competitors. Moreover, competition may require us to adjust prices to stay competitive. In addition, new competitors may emerge, and product lines may be threatened by new technologies or market trends that reduce the value of these product lines. To remain competitive, we must develop new products, respond to new technologies and enhance our existing products in a timely manner. Our indebtedness may affect our business and may restrict our operating flexibility. As of December 31, 2022, we had $6,661.7 in total consolidated indebtedness. In addition, we had approximately $3,482 undrawn availability under our senior unsecured credit facility. Subject to restrictions contained in our credit facility, we may incur additional indebtedness in the future, including indebtedness incurred to finance acquisitions. Our level of indebtedness and the debt servicing costs associated with that indebtedness could have important effects on our operations and business strategy. For example, our indebtedness could: • limit our ability to borrow additional funds; • limit our ability to complete future acquisitions; • limit our ability to pay dividends; • limit our ability to make capital expenditures; • place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors, some of which have lower debt service obligations and greater financial resources; and • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. Our ability to make scheduled principal payments of, to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness and to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend upon our future operating performance, which may be affected by factors beyond our control. In addition, there can be no assurance that future borrowings or equity financing will be available to us on favorable terms for the payment or refinancing of our indebtedness. If we are unable to service our indebtedness, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Our credit facility contains covenants requiring us to achieve certain financial and operating results and maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. Our ability to meet the financial covenants or requirements in our credit facility may be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to satisfy such covenants and requirements. A breach of these covenants 11 or our inability to comply with the financial ratios, tests or other restrictions contained in our facility could result in an event of default under this facility. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our credit facility, and the expiration of any grace periods, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the facility, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If this were to occur, our assets may not be sufficient to fully repay the amounts due under this facility or our other indebtedness. Our goodwill and intangible assets are a significant amount of our total assets, and any write-off of our intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations. Our total assets reflect substantial intangible assets, primarily goodwill. At December 31, 2022, goodwill totaled $15,946.1 compared to $16,037.8 of stockholders’ equity, and represented 59% of our total assets of $26,980.8. The goodwill results from our acquisitions, representing the excess purchase price over the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired. We assess at least annually whether there has been an impairment in the value of our goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets. If future operating performance at one or more of our business units were to fall significantly below current levels, if competing or alternative technologies emerge, if interest rates rise or if business valuations decline, we could incur a non-cash charge to operating income. Any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of goodwill or unamortized intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations, the effect of which could be material. We depend on our ability to develop new products and software, and any failure to develop or market new products and software could adversely affect our business. The future success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to design and manufacture new competitive products, including software, and to enhance existing products and software offerings. This product development may require substantial internal investment. There can be no assurance that unforeseen problems will not occur with respect to the development, performance or market acceptance of new technologies, products, or software or that we will otherwise be able to successfully develop and market new products and software. Failure of our products or software offerings to gain market acceptance or our failure to successfully develop and market new products and software could reduce our margins, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the supply of, or price for, raw materials, parts and components used in our products or for third-party services used in the delivery of our SaaS solutions could affect our business. The availability and prices of raw materials, parts and components are subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers, supply chain delays and disruptions, changes in exchange rates and prevailing price levels. For example, we expect to continue to be impacted by supply chain challenges, including increased material costs, component shortages and transportation disruptions and delays, all of which could escalate in the future. In addition, some of our products are provided by sole source suppliers and our SaaS offerings are increasingly reliant on a limited number of third-party cloud computing platforms. Any change in the supply of, or price for, these parts and components, as well as any increases in commodity prices or the price and availability of third-party cloud computing platforms could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results may be adversely impacted by the performance of Indicor, in which we own a minority interest. In 2022, we divested a 51% majority equity stake of our industrial businesses to Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, LLC (“CD&R”) and retained an initial 49% minority equity interest in the new parent entity, Indicor. Although we have certain limited consent, board representation and other governance rights under existing contractual arrangements, we are a minority owner of Indicor and do not control its management, its policies or the operation of its business, and have no further funding requirements associated with our investment. As a result, our ability to realize the ultimate anticipated benefits of the transaction depend upon operation and management of Indicor by CD&R and the Indicor management team. In addition, Indicor is an industrial business that is subject to risks that are different than the risks associated with our existing businesses. Many of these risks are outside CD&R’s or Indicor’s control and could materially impact Indicor’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, CD&R may have economic or other business interests that are inconsistent with ours, and we may be unable to prevent strategic decisions that may adversely affect the value of our investment in Indicor. We have applied the fair value option to value our equity investment in Indicor. The assessment of fair value requires significant judgments to be made. Although we believe that our judgments and assumptions are reasonable, changes in estimates or the application of alternative assumptions could produce significantly different results, as a result we could incur non-cash charges within non-operating income and a corresponding reduction in fair value. 12 Divestitures or other dispositions could negatively impact our business. Divestitures pose risks and challenges that could negatively impact our business. For example, when we decide to sell or otherwise dispose of a business or assets, we may be unable to do so on satisfactory terms within our anticipated timeframe or at all, and even after reaching a definitive agreement to sell or dispose a business the sale is typically subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions which may not become satisfied. The consummation of any divestiture can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete identified divestitures. They may also cause diversion of management time and focus away from operating our business. In addition, divestitures or other dispositions may have other adverse financial and accounting impacts, and disputes may arise with buyers or with partners in businesses in which we own a minority interest that could be difficult or costly to resolve. Risks Related to Government Regulations Regulation of privacy and data security may adversely affect sales of our products and services and result in increased compliance costs. There has been, and likely will continue to be, increased regulation with respect to the collection, use and handling of an individual’s personal and financial information. Regulatory authorities around the world have passed or are considering legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection, privacy and data security. In the United States, Virginia, Colorado, Connecticut, and Utah have passed new comprehensive privacy legislation, and joined California (which further enhanced its existing privacy laws) in directly regulating the collection, use and sharing of personal information. In addition, there has been an increased focus on industry-specific privacy laws, including in the financial, healthcare, and educational sectors. These statutes and regulations create civil penalties for violations, and in the case of California, creates a private right of action for data breaches, that increases the risk of data breach litigation. Absent a pre-emptive Federal privacy law, as more states pass privacy legislation, there is a strong possibility that we will be required to comply with a patchwork of inconsistent privacy regulations. Globally, personal information collected within the European Union and United Kingdom remains subject to the 2018 General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which is a UK and European Union-wide legal framework that governs data collection, use, and sharing of an individual’s personal data and creates a range of consumer privacy rights. GDPR provides significant penalties for non-compliance (up to 4% of global revenue) and EU data protection authorities have already issued significant fines. The interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws and industry standards in the United States, Europe, China and elsewhere can be uncertain and currently is in flux. Cloud-based solutions may be subject to further regulation, including data localization requirements and other restrictions limiting the international transfer of data. The operational and cost impact of these cannot be fully known at this time. In addition to the possibility of fines, application of these existing laws in a manner inconsistent with our data and privacy practices require that we change our data and privacy practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. Also, any new law or regulation imposing greater fees or taxes or restriction on the collection, use or transfer of information or data internationally or over the Internet, could result in a decline in the use of our products and services and adversely affect sales and our results of operations. Finally, as we increasingly become a provider of technology solutions, our customers and regulators will expect that we can demonstrate compliance with current data privacy and security regulations as well as new industry-developed standards, and our inability to do so may adversely impact sales of our solutions and services to certain customers. This is particularly true for customers in highly-regulated industries, such as the healthcare industry and government contractors, and could result in regulatory actions, fines, legal proceedings and negatively impact our brand, reputation and our business. Expectations relating to environmental, social and governance considerations expose the Company to potential liabilities, increased costs, reputational harm and other adverse effects on the Company’s business. Many governments, regulators, investors, employees, customers and other stakeholders are increasingly focused on environmental, social and governance considerations relating to businesses, including climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, human capital and diversity, equity and inclusion. The Company makes statements about its environmental, social and governance goals and initiatives through information provided on its website, press statements and other communications, including through its ESG Report. Responding to these environmental, social and governance considerations and implementation of these goals and initiatives involves risks and uncertainties, including those described under “Forward-Looking Statements,” requires investments and are impacted by factors that may be outside the Company’s control. In addition, 13 some stakeholders may disagree with the Company’s goals and initiatives and the focus of stakeholders may change and evolve over time. Stakeholders also may have very different views on where environmental, social and governance focus should be placed, including differing views of regulators in various jurisdictions in which we operate. Any failure, or perceived failure, by the Company to achieve its goals, further its initiatives, adhere to its public statements, comply with federal, state or international environmental, social and governance laws and regulations, or meet evolving and varied stakeholder expectations and standards could result in legal and regulatory proceedings against the Company and materially adversely affect the Company’s business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. Risks Related to Economic and Political Conditions Economic, political and other risks associated with our international operations could adversely affect our business. For the year ended December 31, 2022, 14% of our net revenues and 8% of our long-lived assets, excluding goodwill and intangibles, were attributable to operations outside the U.S. We expect our international operations to contribute materially to our business for the foreseeable future. Our international operations are subject to varying degrees of risk inherent in doing business outside the U.S. including, without limitation, the following: • adverse changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets; • oil price volatility; • trade protection measures, tariffs, and import or export requirements; • subsidies or increased access to capital for firms that are currently, or may emerge as, competitors in countries in which we have operations; • partial or total expropriation; • potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; • differing labor regulations; • differing protection of intellectual property; • differing and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, including any measures implemented to address the impacts of climate change; and • potentially negative consequences from the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union. Any business disruptions due to political instability, armed hostilities, incidents of terrorism, incidents of directed cyber-attacks, public health crisis, extreme weather events or other natural disasters could adversely impact our financial performance. If terrorist activity, armed conflict, directed cyber-attacks, political instability, public health crisis, such as an epidemic or pandemic, or extreme weather events or other natural disasters occur in the U.S. or other locations, such events may negatively impact our operations, cause general economic conditions to deteriorate or cause demand for our products to decline. A prolonged economic slowdown or recession could reduce the demand for our products, and therefore, negatively affect our future sales and profits. Any of these events could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by disruptions in the global economy caused by the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine. The global economy has been negatively impacted by the military conflict between Russia and Ukraine. Furthermore, governments in the United States, United Kingdom and European Union have each imposed export controls on certain products and financial and economic sanctions on certain industry sectors and parties in Russia. We have historically had limited operations in Russia and a limited number of suppliers in Ukraine. Nevertheless, the Russia-Ukraine military conflict could have a negative impact on the global economy. Further escalation of geopolitical tensions related to the military conflict, including increased trade barriers or restrictions on global trade, could result in, among other things, cyberattacks, supply disruptions, lower consumer demand, and changes to foreign exchange rates and financial markets, any of which may adversely affect our business and supply chain. 14 General Risk Factors Impacts related to the COVID-19 pandemic could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We continue to closely monitor the impact of the COVID-19 global pandemic on our business, including how it has and will impact our customers, employees, suppliers, vendors and business partners. The COVID-19 global pandemic has created significant volatility, uncertainty and economic disruption, which may continue to affect our business operations and may materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. The COVID-19 global pandemic has caused certain disruptions to our business and operations and could cause material disruptions to our business and operations in the future as a result of, among other things, quarantines, worker absenteeism as a result of illness or other factors, social distancing measures and other travel, health-related, business or other restrictions. The effects of the pandemic have created and exacerbated challenges with the attraction and retention of talent. The COVID-19 global pandemic has and may continue to adversely impact, our suppliers and customers. As a result of the effects of the COVID-19 global pandemic our ability to obtain products or services from certain suppliers and to operate at certain locations have been and may continue to be impacted. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations have been adversely impacted and could be materially adversely affected if the COVID-19 global pandemic continues or there are resurgences of COVID-19 and its variants. The extent to which the coronavirus continues to impact our business, results of operations and financial condition will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and are difficult to predict, including, but not limited to, ongoing or additional outbreaks of the virus or its variants in the jurisdictions in which we operate, the duration and spread of any such outbreaks, its severity, and the actions to contain the virus and its variants whether through the distribution and administration of available vaccines, vaccine mandates or otherwise could have a material impact on our results of operations and heighten many of our known risks described below in this “Risk Factors” section. The potential insolvency or financial distress of third parties could adversely impact our business and results of operations. We are exposed to the risk that third parties to various arrangements who owe us money or goods and services, or who purchase goods and services from us, will not be able to perform their obligations or continue to place orders due to insolvency or financial distress. In addition, the global COVID-19 pandemic has created heightened risk that third parties may be unable to perform their obligations or suffer financial distress due to the global economic impact of the pandemic and the regulatory measures that have been enacted by governments to contain the spread of the virus, however, we are unable predict the impact that COVID-19 will have on any of our customers, suppliers, vendors, and other business partners, and each of their financial conditions or their ability to perform their obligations. If third parties fail to perform their obligations under arrangements with us, we may be forced to replace the underlying commitment at current or above market prices or on other terms that are less favorable to us. In such events, we may incur losses, or our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity could otherwise be adversely affected. Changes to our executive leadership team and any future loss of members of such team, and the resulting management transitions, could harm our operating results. We have experienced significant changes to our executive leadership team in the past and may do so in the future. Leadership transitions and changes can be inherently difficult to manage and may cause uncertainty or disruption to our business or may increase the likelihood of turnover in key leadership positions. If we cannot effectively manage leadership transitions and changes, it could make it more difficult to successfully operate our business. Legal proceedings in which we are, or may be, a party may adversely affect us. We are currently, and may in the future, become subject to legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes. These are typically claims that arise in the normal course of business including, without limitation, commercial or contractual disputes with our suppliers or customers, intellectual property matters, third party liability, including product liability claims, and employment claims. We are and may in the future become subject to litigation regarding data or privacy incidents, as more fully described above in “ We rely on information and technology for many of our business operations which could fail and cause disruption to our business operations”. 15 A downgrade in the ratings of our debt could restrict our ability to access the debt capital markets and increase our interest costs. Unfavorable changes in the ratings that rating agencies assign to our debt may ultimately negatively impact our access to the debt capital markets and increase the costs we incur to borrow funds. Additionally, our credit agreement includes an increase in interest rates if the ratings for our debt are downgraded. Further, an increase in the level of our indebtedness may increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions and may affect our ability to obtain additional financing.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

All currency amounts are in millions unless specified Overview Roper Technologies is a diversified technology company. Roper has a proven, long-term, successful track record of compounding cash flow and shareholder value. We operate market leading businesses that design and develop vertical software and technology enabled products for a variety of defensible niche markets. We pursue consistent and sustainable growth in revenue, earnings and cash flow by enabling continuous improvement in the operating performance of our existing businesses and by acquiring other businesses that offer high value-added software, services, technology-enabled products and solutions that we believe are capable of achieving growth and maintaining high margins. Discontinued Operations On November 22, 2022, the Company completed the divestiture of a majority 51% equity stake in its industrial businesses, including its entire historical Process Technologies reportable segment and the industrial businesses within its historical Measurement & Analytical Solutions reportable segment, to Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, LLC. The businesses included in this transaction were Alpha, AMOT, CCC, Cornell, Dynisco, FTI, Hansen, Hardy, Logitech, Metrix, PAC, Roper Pump, Struers, Technolog, Uson, and Viatran (collectively “Indicor”). Following the sale of the majority stake, the Company retained an initial 49% minority equity interest in the new standalone parent company, Indicor, LLC. This transaction is referred to herein as the “Indicor Transaction.” During 2021, Roper entered into definitive agreements to divest our TransCore, Zetec and CIVCO Radiotherapy businesses (“2021 Divestitures”). As of March 31, 2022, Roper had completed the 2021 Divestitures. The aggregate of the 2021 Divestitures and the Indicor Transaction have greatly reduced the cyclicality and asset intensity of the Company. In addition, the Company has an increased mix of recurring revenue and a higher margin profile. The financial results for Indicor and the 2021 Divestitures are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Unless otherwise noted, discussion within Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations relate to continuing operations. Information regarding discontinued operations is included in Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Update to Segment Reporting Structure During the second quarter of 2022, we updated our reportable segment structure following the announcement of the Indicor Transaction. The Company’s new reporting segment structure is classified based on business model and delivery of performance obligations. The three updated reportable segments (and businesses within each; including changes due to acquisitions since the realignment) are as follows: –Application Software - Aderant, CBORD/Horizon, CliniSys, Data Innovations, Deltek, Frontline Education, IntelliTrans, PowerPlan, Strata, Vertafore –Network Software - ConstructConnect, DAT, Foundry, iPipeline, iTradeNetwork, Loadlink, MHA, SHP, SoftWriters –Technology Enabled Products - CIVCO Medical Solutions, FMI, Inovonics, IPA, Neptune, Northern Digital, rf IDEAS, Verathon Following the Indicor Transaction and the realignment of our reportable segments, the day-to-day operations of our businesses, our organizational structure, and our strategy remain unchanged. All prior periods have been recast to reflect the changes noted above. Financial information about our reportable segments is presented in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. 20 Application of Critical Accounting Policies Our Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”). A discussion of our significant accounting policies can also be found in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2022 included in this Annual Report. GAAP offers acceptable alternative methods for accounting for certain issues affecting our financial results, such as determining inventory cost, depreciating long-lived assets and recognizing revenue. We have not changed the application of acceptable accounting methods or the significant estimates affecting the application of these principles in the last three years in a manner that had a material effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires the use of estimates, assumptions, judgments and interpretations that can affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and other supplemental disclosures. The development of accounting estimates is the responsibility of our management. Our management discusses those areas that require significant judgments with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. The Audit Committee has reviewed all financial disclosures in our annual filings with the SEC. Although we believe the positions we have taken with regard to uncertainties are reasonable, others might reach different conclusions and our positions can change over time as more information becomes available. If an accounting estimate changes, its effects are accounted for prospectively or through a cumulative catch up adjustment. Our most significant accounting uncertainties are encountered in the areas of income taxes, valuation of other intangible assets, goodwill and indefinite-lived impairment analyses, and valuation of our initial 49% equity interest in Indicor. Estimates are considered to be significant if they meet both of the following criteria: (1) the estimate requires assumptions about matters that are uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and (2) changes in the estimate are reasonably likely to have a material financial impact from period-to-period. Income taxes can be affected by estimates of whether and within which jurisdictions future earnings will occur and if, how and when cash is repatriated to the U.S., combined with other aspects of an overall income tax strategy. Additionally, taxing jurisdictions could retroactively disagree with our tax treatment of certain items, and some historical transactions have income tax effects going forward. Accounting rules require these future effects to be evaluated using current laws, rules and regulations, each of which can change at any time and in an unpredictable manner. If there is a material change in the actual effective tax rates, the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, or if the tax law changes are unfavorable there could be a resulting increase to income tax expense and the effective tax rate. During 2022, our effective income tax rate was 23.1%, as compared to the 2021 rate of 22.0%. The rate was unfavorably impacted by the recognition of a net tax expense associated with an internal restructuring plan associated with the Indicor Transaction. We expect the effective tax rate for 2023 to be approximately 21% to 22%. We account for goodwill in a purchase business combination as the excess purchase price over the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired. Goodwill, which is not amortized, is tested for impairment on an annual basis in conjunction with our annual forecast process during the fourth quarter (or an interim basis if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value). When testing goodwill for impairment, we have the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the estimated fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If we elect to perform a qualitative assessment and determine that an impairment is more likely than not, we are then required to perform the quantitative impairment test; otherwise, no further analysis is required. Under the qualitative assessment, we consider various qualitative factors, including macroeconomic conditions, relevant industry and market trends, cost factors, overall financial performance, other entity-specific events and events affecting the reporting unit that could indicate a potential change in the fair value of our reporting unit or the composition of its carrying values. We also consider the specific future outlook for the reporting unit. We also may elect not to perform the qualitative assessment and, instead, proceed directly to the quantitative impairment test. The quantitative assessment utilizes an equal weighted income approach (discounted cash flows) and market approach (consisting of a comparable company earnings multiples methodology) to estimate the fair value of a reporting unit. To determine the reasonableness of the estimated fair values, we review the assumptions to ensure that neither the income approach nor the market approach provides significantly different valuations. If the estimated fair value exceeds the carrying value, no 21 further work is required and no impairment loss is recognized. If the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value, a non-cash impairment loss is recognized in the amount of that excess. Key assumptions used in the income and market approaches are updated when the analysis is performed for each reporting unit. The assumptions that have the most significant effect on the fair value calculations are the projected revenue growth rates, future operating margins, discount rates, terminal values and earnings multiples. While we use reasonable and timely information to prepare our cash flow and discount rate assumptions, actual future cash flows or market conditions could differ significantly and could result in future non-cash impairment charges related to recorded goodwill balances. Recently acquired reporting units generally represent a higher inherent risk of impairment, which typically decreases as the businesses are integrated into our enterprise. Negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, actual results significantly below projections, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in the use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may have a negative effect on the fair value of our reporting units. As of the annual impairment test, the Company has 21 reporting units with individual goodwill amounts ranging from $17.5 to $3,363.1. In 2022, the Company performed its annual impairment test in the fourth quarter for all reporting units. The Company conducted its analysis qualitatively and assessed whether it was more likely than not that the respective fair value of these reporting units was less than the carrying amount. The Company determined that impairment of goodwill was not likely in any of its reporting units and thus was not required to perform a quantitative assessment for these reporting units as of October 1, 2022. Trade names that are determined to have an indefinite useful economic life are not amortized, but separately tested for impairment during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year or on an interim basis if an event occurs that indicates the fair value is more likely than not below the carrying value. We first qualitatively assess whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the estimated fair value of the indefinite-lived trade name is less than its carrying amount. If necessary, we conduct a quantitative assessment using the relief-from-royalty method, which we believe to be an acceptable methodology due to its common use by valuation specialists in determining the fair value of intangible assets. This methodology assumes that, in lieu of ownership, a third-party would be willing to pay a royalty in order to exploit the related benefits of these assets. The assumptions that have the most significant effect on the fair value calculations are the royalty rates, projected revenue growth rates, discount rates and terminal values. Each royalty rate is determined based on the profitability of the trade name to which it relates and observed market royalty rates. Revenue growth rates are determined after considering current and future economic conditions, recent sales trends, discussions with customers, planned timing of new product launches or other variables. Trade names resulting from recent acquisitions generally represent the highest risk of impairment, which typically decreases as the businesses are integrated into our enterprise. During the fourth quarter of 2021, the Company determined the use of the Sunquest trade name would be discontinued given the strategic action to merge the Sunquest business into our CliniSys business, both of which are reported in our Application Software reportable segment. Considering the planned merger and updated market comparisons, the royalty rate utilized in the quantitative impairment assessment of the trade name was 0.5% as compared to a royalty rate of 3.5% used in the prior year. The royalty rate reduction was the significant assumption that resulted in a non-cash impairment charge of $94.4 recognized as a component of “Impairment of intangible assets” within the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. The assessment of fair value for impairment purposes requires significant judgments to be made by management. Although our forecasts are based on assumptions that are considered reasonable by management and consistent with the plans and estimates management uses to operate the underlying businesses, there is significant judgment in determining the expected results attributable to the businesses and/or reporting units. Changes in estimates or the application of alternative assumptions could produce significantly different results. The most significant identifiable intangible assets with definite useful economic lives recognized from our acquisitions are customer relationships. The fair value for customer relationships is determined as of the acquisition date using the excess earnings method. Under this methodology the fair value is determined based on the estimated future after-tax cash flows arising from the acquired customer relationships over their estimated lives after considering customer attrition and contributory asset charges. The assumptions that have the most significant effect on the fair value calculations are the customer attrition rates, projected customer revenue growth rates, margins, contributory asset charges and discount rates. When testing customer relationship intangible assets for potential impairment, management considers historical customer attrition rates and projected revenues and profitability related to customers that existed at acquisition. In evaluating the amortizable life for customer relationship intangible assets, management considers historical customer attrition patterns. 22 We evaluate whether there has been an impairment of identifiable intangible assets with definite useful economic lives, or of the remaining life of such assets, when certain indicators of impairment are present. In the event that facts and circumstances indicate that the cost or remaining period of amortization of any asset may be impaired, an evaluation of recoverability would be performed. If an evaluation is required, the estimated future gross, undiscounted cash flows associated with the asset would be compared to the asset’s carrying amount to determine if a write-down to fair value or a revision in the remaining amortization period is required. The Company has an initial 49% minority equity interest in Indicor which provides us with the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over the investee. We elected to apply the fair value option as we believe this is the most reasonable method to value the equity investment. This investment is classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy as valuation of the investment at future dates will reflect management’s estimate of assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset. Any changes to the valuation estimates or assumptions as described further in Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements could produce significantly different results. 23 Results of Operations All currency amounts are in millions unless specified, percentages are net of revenues Percentages may not sum due to rounding. The following table sets forth selected information for the years indicated. (1) Includes results from the acquisitions of Vertafore from September 3, 2020, EPSi from October 15, 2020, American Legal Net from December 30, 2021, Horizon Lab Systems, LLC from January 3, 2022, Common Cents Systems, Inc. from April 6, 2022, MGA Systems Holdings, Inc. from June 27, 2022, Common Sense Solutions, Inc. from July 12, 2022, viDesktop Inc. from August 19, 2022, TIP Technologies Inc. from September 23, 2022 and Frontline Education from October 4, 2022. (2) Includes results from the acquisitions of FMIC from June 9, 2020, Team TSI from June 15, 2020, IFS from September 15, 2020, WELIS from September 18, 2020 and Construction Journal from December 21, 2021. (3) Includes unallocated corporate administrative expenses and enterprise-wide stock-based compensation. 24 Year Ended December 31, 2022 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2021 Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2022 were $5,371.8 as compared to $4,833.8 for the year ended December 31, 2021, an increase of 11.1%. The components of revenue growth for the year ended December 31, 2022 were as follows: In our Application Software segment, net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2022 were $2,639.5 as compared to $2,366.7 for the year ended December 31, 2021. The growth of 7.5% in organic revenues was broad-based across the segment led by our businesses serving the property and casualty insurance, acute healthcare, and government contracting markets. Gross margin decreased to 68.8% for the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to 69.4% for the year ended December 31, 2021 due primarily to increased headcount to support growth, and a higher mix of SaaS and professional service revenue across a number of businesses. Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses as a percentage of revenues in the year ended December 31, 2022 decreased to 41.8%, as compared to 42.7% in the year ended December 31, 2021, due primarily to improved operating leverage on higher organic revenues partially offset by higher amortization of acquired intangibles from the acquisition of Frontline Education. The resulting operating margin was 27.1% in the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to 26.8% in the year ended December 31, 2021. In our Network Software segment, net revenues were $1,378.5 for the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to $1,223.8 for the year ended December 31, 2021. The growth of 12.7% in organic revenues was led by our network software businesses serving the freight match, life insurance, and media and entertainment markets. Gross margin increased to 84.6% for the year ended December 31, 2022 from 84.1% for the year ended December 31, 2021, due primarily to favorable revenue mix. SG&A expenses as a percentage of net revenues decreased to 43.2% in the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to 45.1% in the year ended December 31, 2021, due primarily to operating leverage on higher organic sales. The resulting operating margin was 41.4% in the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to 39.0% in the year ended December 31, 2021. In our Technology Enabled Products segment, net revenues were $1,353.8 for the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to $1,243.3 the year ended December 31, 2021. The growth of 9.8% in organic revenues was primarily due to our water meter technology business and medical products businesses. Gross margin decreased to 56.9% in the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to 59.2% in the year ended December 31, 2021, due primarily to higher material, component and freight costs as our businesses navigate the widespread global supply chain challenges. SG&A expenses as a percentage of net revenues decreased to 23.8% in the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to 25.7% in the year ended December 31, 2021 due primarily to improved operating leverage on higher organic sales. The resulting operating margin was 33.2% in the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to 33.4% in the year ended December 31, 2021. Corporate expenses increased by $19.3 to $209.2, or 3.9% of revenues, in 2022 as compared to $189.9, or 3.9% of revenues, in 2021. The dollar increase was due primarily to higher professional service and acquisition related expenses partially offset by lower compensation expense. Impairment of intangible assets was $94.4 for the year ended December 31, 2021, due to the strategic action to merge the Sunquest business into our CliniSys business resulting in impairment of the Sunquest trade name. Interest expense, net, decreased $41.5, or 17.7%, for the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The decrease was due to lower weighted average debt balances and higher interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents. Other expense, net, of $50.1 for the year ended December 31, 2022 was composed primarily of a legal settlement expense of $45.0 related to the Berall v. Verathon patent litigation matter . Other income, net of $24.6 for the year ended December 31, 2021, was composed primarily of a gain on sale of minority investment of $27.1. 25 During 2022, our effective income tax rate was 23.1% as compared to our 2021 rate of 22.0%. The rate was unfavorably impacted by the recognition of a net tax expense associated with an internal restructuring plan related to the Indicor Transaction . Order backlog is equal to our remaining performance obligations expected to be recognized within the next 12 months as discussed in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Backlog increased 25.3% to $2,912.6 at December 31, 2022 as compared to $2,325.1 at December 31, 2021. Organic growth in backlog was 18% and acquisitions contributed 8% which was partially offset by foreign exchange impact of 1%. Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2020 Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2021 were $4,833.8 as compared to $4,022.4 for the year ended December 31, 2020, an increase of 20.2%. The components of revenue growth for the year ended December 31, 2021 were as follows: In our Application Software segment, net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2021 were $2,366.7 as compared to $1,785.8 for the year ended December 31, 2020. The growth of 9.1% in organic revenues was broad-based across the segment led by our businesses serving the government contracting, acute healthcare and legal markets. Gross margin increased to 69.4% for the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to 68.4% for the year ended December 31, 2020 due primarily to the acquisition of Vertafore and operating leverage on higher organic revenues. SG&A expenses as a percentage of revenues in the year ended December 31, 2021 increased to 42.7%, as compared to 42.2% in the year ended December 31, 2020, due primarily to higher amortization of acquired intangibles from the Vertafore and EPSi acquisitions, partially offset by operating leverage on higher organic revenues. The resulting operating margin was 26.8% in the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to 26.2% in the year ended December 31, 2020. In our Network Software segment, net revenues were $1,223.8 for the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to $1,069.4 for the year ended December 31, 2020. The growth of 11.3% in organic revenues was broad-based across the segment led by our network software businesses serving the freight match, post-acute care and construction markets. Gross margin increased to 84.1% for the year ended December 31, 2021 from 83.1% for the year ended December 31, 2020, due primarily to revenue mix and operating leverage on higher organic revenues. SG&A expenses as a percentage of net revenues decreased to 45.1% in the year ended December 31, 2021, as compared to 47.3% in the year ended December 31, 2020, due primarily to operating leverage on higher organic sales. The resulting operating margin was 39.0% in the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to 35.8% in the year ended December 31, 2020. In our Technology Enabled Products segment, net revenues were $1,243.3 for the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to $1,167.2 the year ended December 31, 2020. The growth of 5.9% in organic revenues was broad-based led by our water meter technology, and medical products businesses excluding Verathon, which declined due to unprecedented demand for their products used in the treatment of COVID-19 during 2020. Gross margin decreased to 59.2% in the year ended December 31, 2021, as compared to 61.5% in the year ended December 31, 2020, due primarily to reduced operating leverage associated with Verathon’s normalized 2021 revenues and costs associated with navigating the widespread supply chain challenges. SG&A expenses as a percentage of net revenues decreased to 25.7% in the year ended December 31, 2021, as compared to 26.2% in 26 the year ended December 31, 2020, due primarily to revenue mix. The resulting operating margin was 33.4% in the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to 35.3% in the year ended December 31, 2020. Corporate expenses increased by $10.1 to $189.9, or 3.9% of revenues, in 2021 as compared to $179.8, or 4.5% of revenues, in 2020. The dollar increase was due primarily to higher compensation related expenses, partially offset by lower acquisition related expenses. Interest expense, net, increased $15.4, or 7.0%, for the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase was due to higher weighted average debt balances, partially offset by lower weighted average interest rates and $7.2 in interest expense for the origination fee on our bridge financing associated with the Vertafore acquisition in 2020. Other income, net, of $24.6 for the year ended December 31, 2021 was composed primarily of a gain on sale of minority investment of $27.1. Other expense, net of $3.1 for the year ended December 31, 2020, was composed primarily of foreign exchange losses at our non-U.S. based subsidiaries. During 2021, our effective income tax rate was 22.0% as compared to our 2020 rate of 21.8%. The increase was due primarily to a non-recurring item related to a UK tax rate change, which had a $20.4 unfavorable impact in 2021. Order backlog is equal to our remaining performance obligations expected to be recognized within the next 12 months as discussed in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Backlog increased 22.0% to $2,325.1 at December 31, 2021 as compared to $1,905.5 at December 31, 2020, with the increase driven primarily by organic growth. Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources All currency amounts are in millions unless specified Selected cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 are as follows. Operating activities - The decrease in cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations in 2022 as compared to 2021 was due primarily to (i) the non-recurrence of $953.8 of cash taxes paid in connection with the 2021 Divestitures and the Indicor Transaction, (ii) $97.8 of higher cash taxes associated with changes to Internal Revenue Code Section 174 and (iii) less cash provided by working capital. These cash outflows were partially offset by higher net income from continuing operations net of non-cash expenses. The increase in cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations in 2021 as compared to 2020 was due primarily to higher net income net of non-cash expenses and the non-recurrence of $201.9 of cash taxes paid on the disposal of Gatan in 2020. These increases were partially offset by lower cash provided by working capital as compared to 2020. Investing activities - Cash used in investing activities from continuing operations during 2022 was primarily for business acquisitions, most notably Frontline Education, viDesktop and MGA Systems. Cash used in investing activities from continuing operations during 2021 was primarily for business acquisitions partially offset by proceeds from the sale of a minority investment. Cash used in investing activities from continuing operations during 2020 was primarily for business acquisitions, most notably Vertafore and EPSi. 27 Financing activities - Cash used in financing activities from continuing operations during 2022 was primarily due to repayments of $800.0 for our senior notes, net repayments of $470.0 on our unsecured credit facility and dividend payments. Cash used in financing activities from continuing operations during 2021 was primarily due to net repayments of $1,150.0 on our unsecured credit facility, $500.0 of repayments for our senior notes and dividend payments. Cash provided by financing activities from continuing operations during 2020 was primarily from the issuance of $3,300.0 of senior notes and $1,620.0 of net borrowings on the revolver, partially offset by $600.0 of repayments for senior notes and to a lesser extent dividend payments. Discontinued operations - Cash provided by discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2022 was primarily due to proceeds from the sale of the majority stake in Indicor, TransCore and Zetec, slightly offset by less cash provided by operating cash flows from discontinued operations which was impacted by the timing of our divestiture activity. Cash provided by discontinued operations during the year ended December 31, 2021 was primarily due to cash provided by operating activities and proceeds from the sale of CIVCO Radiotherapy. Cash provided by discontinued operations during the year ended December 31, 2020 was primarily due to cash provided by operating activities. Net working capital (total current assets, excluding cash and current assets held for sale, less total current liabilities, excluding debt and current liabilities held for sale) was negative $1,053.7 at December 31, 2022 compared to negative $990.9 at December 31, 2021, due primarily to increased deferred revenue, partially offset by movements in income tax-related balances and greater inventory build associated with mitigating supply chain challenges. Consistent negative net working capital demonstrates Roper’s focus on asset-light business models. Total debt excluding unamortized debt issuance costs was $6,700.3 at December 31, 2022 (29.5% of total capital) compared to $7,970.3 at December 31, 2021 (40.8% of total capital). Our total debt decreased at December 31, 2022 compared to December 31, 2021, due primarily to repayments of $800.0 for our senior notes and net repayments of $470.0 on our unsecured credit facility. On July 21, 2022, the Company entered into a new five-year unsecured credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”) among Roper, the financial institutions from time to time party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, Bank of America, N.A. and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as syndication agents, and Mizuho Bank, Ltd., MUFG Bank, Ltd., PNC Bank, National Association, TD Bank, N.A., Truist Bank and U.S Bank, National Association, as documentation agents, which replaced the existing $3,000.0 unsecured credit facility, dated as of September 2, 2020, as amended. The new facility comprises a five-year $3,500.0 revolving credit facility, which includes availability of up to $150.0 for letters of credit. Loans under the facility will be available in dollars, and letters of credit will be available in dollars and other currencies to be agreed. The Company may also, subject to compliance with specified conditions, request additional term loans or revolving credit commitments in an aggregate amount not to exceed $500.0. The Credit Agreement requires the Company to maintain a Total Debt to Total Capital Ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement) of 0.65 to 1.00 or less. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement are prepayable at Roper’s option at any time in whole or in part without premium or penalty. We were in compliance with all debt covenants related to our credit facility throughout the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021. At December 31, 2022, we had $6,700.0 of senior unsecured notes and no outstanding revolver borrowings. We had $19.0 of outstanding letters of credit at December 31, 2022, of which $18.3 was covered by our lending group, thereby reducing our revolving credit capacity commensurately. We may redeem some or all of our senior unsecured notes at any time or from time to time, at 100% of their principal amount, plus a make-whole premium based on a spread to U.S. Treasury securities. See Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information regarding our credit facility and senior notes. Cash and cash equivalents at our foreign subsidiaries at December 31, 2022 totaled $234.0 as compared to $310.8 at December 31, 2021, a decrease of 24.7%. The decrease was due primarily due to repatriation of $285.6 and cash divested in connection with the Indicor Transaction partially offset by cash generated from foreign operations. We intend to repatriate substantially all historical and future earnings. 28 Capital expenditures of $40.1, $28.5 and $24.7 were incurred during 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Capitalized software expenditures of $30.2, $29.7 and $17.7 were incurred during 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Capital expenditures and capitalized software expenditures were relatively consistent in 2022 as compared to 2021 and 2020. In the future, we expect the aggregate of capital expenditures and capitalized software expenditures as a percentage of annual net revenues to be between 1.0% and 1.5%. Contractual Cash Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments and Contingencies All currency amounts are in millions The following tables quantify our contractual cash obligations and commercial commitments at December 31, 2022. 1 We have excluded the liability for uncertain tax positions and certain other tax liabilities as we are not able to reasonably estimate the timing of the payments. See Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. 2 Represents minimum fixed price purchase commitments that are legally binding across Roper. We believe that internally generated cash flows and the remaining availability under our credit facility will be adequate to finance normal operating requirements. Although we maintain an active acquisition program, any future acquisitions will be dependent on numerous factors and it is not feasible to reasonably estimate if or when any such acquisitions will occur and what the impact will be on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such acquisitions may be financed by the use of existing credit lines, future cash flows from operations, future divestitures, the proceeds from the issuance of new debt or equity securities or any combination of these methods, the terms and availability of which will be subject to market and economic conditions generally. We anticipate that our businesses will generate positive cash flows from operating activities, and that these cash flows will permit the reduction of currently outstanding debt in accordance with the repayment schedule. However, the rate at which we can reduce our debt during 2023 (and reduce the associated interest expense) will be affected by, among other things, the financing and operating requirements of any new acquisitions, the financial performance of our existing companies and the financial markets generally. None of these factors can be predicted with certainty. Recently Issued Accounting Standards See Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for information regarding the effect of new accounting pronouncements on our Consolidated Financial Statements. 29