********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The following important factors affect our business and operations generally or affect multiple segments of our business and operations: Risks Related to our Business Operations and Industry If the markets into which we sell our products decline or do not grow as anticipated due to a decline in general economic conditions, or there are uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial funding proposals, or there are unfavorable changes in government regulations, we may see an adverse effect on the results of our business operations. Our customers include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, laboratories, academic and research institutions, public health authorities, private healthcare organizations, doctors and government agencies. Our quarterly revenue and results 17 of operations are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter. In addition, our revenues and earnings forecasts for future quarters are often based on the expected trends in our markets. However, the markets we serve do not always experience the trends that we may expect. Negative fluctuations in our customers’ markets, the inability of our customers to secure credit or funding, restrictions in capital expenditures, general economic conditions, cuts in government funding or unfavorable changes in government regulations would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and services. In addition, government funding is subject to economic conditions and the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. Our revenues may be adversely affected if our customers delay or reduce purchases as a result of uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial funding proposals. Such declines could harm our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and trading price of our common stock, and could limit our ability to sustain profitability. The pandemic caused by COVID-19 has had, and may continue to have, a negative effect on the demand for certain of our products and our global operations including our manufacturing capabilities, logistics and supply chain that may materially and adversely impact our business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows. We face risks related to public health crises and pandemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic. The global impact of COVID-19 resulted in an adverse impact on our operations, supply chains and distribution systems, due to significant global mitigation measures, including government-directed quarantines, social distancing and shelter-in-place mandates, and travel restrictions and/or bans. Continued uncertainty with respect to the severity and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic has contributed to the volatility of financial markets. The COVID-19 pandemic has caused extended global economic disruption, and a global recession is possible. We have experienced significant reductions in demand for certain of our products due to the COVID-19 pandemic and although the severity and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic cannot be reasonably estimated at this time, additional impacts that we may experience include, but are not limited to: fluctuations in our stock price due to market volatility; further decreases in demand for certain of our products; reduced profitability; large-scale supply chain disruptions impeding our ability to ship and/or receive product; potential interruptions of, or limitations on manufacturing operations imposed by local, state or federal governments; shortages of key raw materials or components; workforce absenteeism and distraction; labor shortages including those resulting from unwillingness to comply with vaccination or other requirements; customer credit concerns; cybersecurity risks and data accessibility disruptions due to remote working arrangements; reduced sources of liquidity; increased borrowing costs; fluctuations in foreign currency markets; potential impairment in the carrying value of goodwill; other asset impairment charges; increased obligations related to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans; and deferred tax valuation allowances. Substantial uncertainty remains regarding the further development of the COVID-19 pandemic, however, we currently anticipate that business disruptions and market volatility resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to have a material adverse impact on the growth rate of certain of our businesses, and may also have a material adverse impact on our overall financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our Diagnostics segment experienced an increase in revenue resulting from increased demand for our immunodiagnostics and applied genomics COVID-19 product offerings during fiscal years 2020 and 2021, as well as from the COVID-19 testing laboratory facilities we developed to service the State of California and the United Kingdom. The laboratory in the United Kingdom closed earlier in 2022 and the laboratory in the State of California closed in the second quarter of 2022. As a result of these closures, and the general reduction in COVID-19 testing spending by our customers, the demand for these products and services declined in fiscal year 2022 and we expect it will continue to decline in fiscal year 2023, with revenue largely contingent upon consumer demand for COVID-19 testing as well as our ability to develop, produce and market COVID-19 products. Our growth and profitability is subject to global economic and political conditions, and operational disruptions at our facilities. Our business is affected by global economic and political conditions as well as the state of the financial markets, particularly as the United States and other countries balance concerns around debt, inflation, growth and budget allocations in their policy initiatives. There can be no assurance that global economic conditions and financial markets will not worsen and that we will not experience any adverse effects that may be material to our consolidated cash flows, results of operations, financial position or our ability to access capital, such as the adverse effects resulting from a prolonged shutdown in government operations both in the United States and internationally. Our business is also affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession, financial liquidity and currency volatility or devaluation. Political changes, including war or other conflicts, such as the current conflict in Ukraine, some of which may be disruptive, could interfere with our supply chain, our customers and all of our activities in a particular location. 18 While we take precautions to prevent production or service interruptions at our global facilities, a major earthquake, fire, flood, power loss or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or delay of any of our critical business operations could result in our incurring significant liability to customers or other third parties, cause significant reputational damage or have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Certain of these risks can be hedged to a limited degree using financial instruments, or other measures, and some of these risks are insurable, but any such mitigation efforts are costly and may not always be fully successful. Our ability to engage in such mitigation efforts has decreased or become even more costly as a result of recent market developments. If we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, we may lose market share and be unable to achieve revenue growth targets. We sell many of our products in industries characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product and service introductions, and evolving customer needs and industry standards. Many of the businesses competing with us in these industries have significant financial and other resources to invest in new technologies, substantial intellectual property portfolios, substantial experience in new product development, regulatory expertise, manufacturing capabilities, and established distribution channels to deliver products to customers. Our products could become technologically obsolete over time, or we may invest in technology that does not lead to revenue growth or continue to sell products for which the demand from our customers is declining, in which case we may lose market share or not achieve our revenue growth targets. The success of our new product offerings will depend upon several factors, including our ability to: • accurately anticipate customer needs, • innovate and develop new reliable technologies and applications, • receive regulatory approvals in a timely manner, • successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, • price our products competitively, and manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and on time, and • differentiate our offerings from our competitors’ offerings. Many of our products are used by our customers to develop, test and manufacture their products. We must anticipate industry trends and consistently develop new products to meet our customers’ expectations. In developing new products, we may be required to make significant investments before we can determine the commercial viability of the new product. If we fail to accurately foresee our customers’ needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant revenue. We may also suffer a loss in market share and potential revenue if we are unable to commercialize our technology in a timely and efficient manner. In addition, some of our licensed technology is subject to contractual restrictions, which may limit our ability to develop or commercialize products for some applications. We may not be able to successfully execute acquisitions or divestitures, such as the divestiture of the Analytical, Food and Enterprise Services businesses, license technologies, integrate acquired businesses or licensed technologies into our existing businesses, or make acquired businesses or licensed technologies profitable. We have in the past supplemented, and may in the future supplement, our internal growth by acquiring businesses and licensing technologies that complement or augment our existing product lines. However, we may be unable to identify or complete promising acquisitions or license transactions for many reasons, such as: • competition among buyers and licensees, • the high valuations of businesses and technologies, • the need for regulatory and other approval, and • our inability to raise capital to fund these acquisitions. Some of the businesses we acquire may be unprofitable or marginally profitable, or may increase the variability of our revenue recognition. If, for example, we are unable to successfully commercialize products and services related to significant in-process research and development that we have capitalized, we may have to impair the value of such assets. Accordingly, the earnings or losses of acquired businesses may dilute our earnings. For these acquired businesses to achieve acceptable levels of profitability, we would have to improve their management, operations, products and market penetration. We may not be successful in this regard and may encounter other difficulties in integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations, such as incompatible management, information or other systems, cultural differences, loss of key personnel, unforeseen 19 regulatory requirements, previously undisclosed liabilities or difficulties in predicting financial results. To finance our acquisitions, we may have to raise additional funds, either through public or private financings. We may be unable to obtain such funds or may be able to do so only on terms unacceptable to us. We may also incur expenses related to completing acquisitions or licensing technologies, or in evaluating potential acquisitions or technologies, which may adversely impact our profitability. Additionally, if we are not successful in selling businesses we seek to divest, such as our recent agreement to divest our Analytical, Food and Enterprise Service businesses to New Mountain Capital L.L.C., the activity of such businesses may dilute our earnings and we may not be able to achieve the expected benefits of such divestitures. Divestitures could involve difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management’s attention, the disruption of our business and the potential loss of key employees. The transaction may be subject to the satisfaction of pre-closing conditions, including obtaining necessary regulatory and government approvals as well as establishing operational segregations, which, if not satisfied or obtained, may prevent us from completing the transaction. Divestitures may also involve continued financial involvement in or liability with respect to the divested assets and businesses, such as indemnities or other financial obligations, in which the performance of the divested assets or businesses could impact our results of operations. Our ability to provide transition services and support to assist the buyer in the transition to certain functions, including, but not limited to, information technology, accounting and human resources, for a certain period of time may cause us to incur unanticipated costs and liabilities and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we do not compete effectively, our business will be harmed. We encounter aggressive competition from numerous competitors in many areas of our business. We may not be able to compete effectively with all of these competitors. To remain competitive, we must develop new products and periodically enhance our existing products. We anticipate that we may also have to adjust the prices of many of our products to stay competitive. In addition, new competitors, technologies or market trends may emerge to threaten or reduce the value of entire product lines. Our quarterly operating results could be subject to significant fluctuation, and we may not be able to adjust our operations to effectively address changes we do not anticipate, which could increase the volatility of our stock price and potentially cause losses to our shareholders. Given the nature of the markets in which we participate, we cannot reliably predict future revenue and profitability. Changes in competitive, market and economic conditions may require us to adjust our operations, and we may not be able to make those adjustments or make them quickly enough to adapt to changing conditions. A high proportion of our costs are fixed in the short term, due in part to our research and development and manufacturing costs. As a result, small declines in sales could disproportionately affect our operating results in a quarter. Factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include: • demand for and market acceptance of our products, • competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices, • changes in the level of economic activity in regions in which we do business, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and other global health crises or pandemics, • changes in general economic conditions or government funding, • settlements of income tax audits, • expenses incurred in connection with claims related to environmental conditions at locations where we conduct or formerly conducted operations, • contract termination and litigation costs, • differing tax laws and changes in those laws, or changes in the countries in which we are subject to taxation, • changes in our effective tax rate, • changes in industries, such as pharmaceutical and biomedical, • changes in the portions of our revenue represented by our various products and customers, • our ability to introduce new products, • our competitors’ announcement or introduction of new products, services or technological innovations, • costs of raw materials, labor, energy, supplies, transportation or other indirect costs, 20 • changes in healthcare or other reimbursement rates paid by government agencies and other third parties for certain of our products and services, • our ability to realize the benefit of ongoing productivity initiatives, • changes in the volume or timing of product orders, • fluctuation in the expense related to the mark-to-market adjustment on postretirement benefit plans, • changes in our assumptions underlying future funding of pension obligations, • changes in assumptions used to determine contingent consideration in acquisitions, and • changes in foreign currency exchange rates. A significant disruption in third-party package delivery and import/export services, or significant increases in prices for those services, could interfere with our ability to ship products, increase our costs and lower our profitability. We ship a significant portion of our products to our customers through independent package delivery and import/export companies, including UPS and Federal Express in the United States; TNT, UPS and DHL in Europe; and UPS in Asia. We also ship our products through other carriers, including commercial airlines, freight carriers, national trucking firms, overnight carrier services and the United States Postal Service. If one or more of the package delivery or import/export providers experiences a significant disruption in services or institutes a significant price increase, we may have to seek alternative providers and the delivery of our products could be prevented or delayed. Such events could cause us to incur increased shipping costs that could not be passed on to our customers, negatively impacting our profitability and our relationships with certain of our customers. Disruptions in the supply of raw materials, certain key components and other goods from our limited or single source suppliers could have an adverse effect on the results of our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers. The production of our products requires a wide variety of raw materials, key components and other goods that are generally available from alternate sources of supply. However, certain critical raw materials, key components and other goods required for the production and sale of some of our principal products are available from limited or single sources of supply. We generally have multi-year contracts with no minimum purchase requirements with these suppliers, but those contracts may not fully protect us from a failure by certain suppliers to supply critical materials or from the delays inherent in being required to change suppliers and, in some cases, validate new raw materials. Such raw materials, key components and other goods can usually be obtained from alternative sources with the potential for an increase in price, decline in quality or delay in delivery. A prolonged inability to obtain certain raw materials, key components or other goods is possible and could have an adverse effect on our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers. In addition, a global health crisis or pandemic such as the COVID-19 pandemic, wars, conflicts, or other changes in a country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, could have a significant adverse effect on our supply chain. We are subject to the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission requiring disclosure as to whether certain materials known as conflict minerals (tantalum, tin, gold, tungsten and their derivatives) that may be contained in our products are mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries. As a result of these rules, we may incur additional costs in complying with the disclosure requirements and in satisfying those customers who require that the components used in our products be certified as conflict-free, and the potential lack of availability of these materials at competitive prices could increase our production costs. If we do not retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy will be limited. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers and scientists, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. The competition for these employees is intense. The loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, there could be a material adverse effect on us should the turnover rates for key personnel increase significantly or if we are unable to continue to attract qualified personnel. We do not maintain any key person life insurance policies on any of our officers or employees. Our success also depends on our ability to execute leadership succession plans. The inability to successfully transition key management roles could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. If we experience a significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems or those of our customers, suppliers or other third parties, or cybercrime, resulting in inappropriate access to or inadvertent transfer of 21 information or assets, or if we fail to implement new systems, software and technologies successfully, our business could be adversely affected. We rely on several centralized information technology systems throughout our company to develop, manufacture and provide products and services, keep financial records, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. Our and our third-party service providers' information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophes or other unforeseen events. If we were to experience a prolonged system disruption in the information technology systems that involve our interactions with customers, suppliers or other third parties, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, security breaches of our information technology systems or cybercrime, resulting in inappropriate access to or inadvertent transfer of information or assets, could result in losses or misappropriation of assets or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers, which could result in our suffering significant financial or reputational damage. Our results of operations will be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our intangible assets. As of January 1, 2023, our total assets included $9.9 billion of net intangible assets. Net intangible assets consist principally of goodwill associated with acquisitions and costs associated with securing patent rights, trademark rights, customer relationships, core technology and technology licenses and in-process research and development, net of accumulated amortization. We test certain of these items—specifically all of those that are considered “indefinite-lived”—at least annually for potential impairment by comparing the carrying value to the fair market value of the reporting unit to which they are assigned. All of our amortizing intangible assets are also evaluated for impairment should events occur that call into question the value of the intangible assets. Adverse changes in our business, adverse changes in the assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units, or the failure to grow our Discovery & Analytical Solutions and Diagnostics segments may result in impairment of our intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Risks Related to our Intellectual Property We may not be successful in adequately protecting our intellectual property. Patent and trade secret protection is important to us because developing new products, processes and technologies gives us a competitive advantage, although it is time-consuming and expensive. We own many United States and foreign patents and intend to apply for additional patents. Patent applications we file, however, may not result in issued patents or, if they do, the claims allowed in the patents may be narrower than what is needed to protect fully our products, processes and technologies. The expiration of our previously issued patents may cause us to lose a competitive advantage in certain of the products and services we provide. Similarly, applications to register our trademarks may not be granted in all countries in which they are filed. For our intellectual property that is protected by keeping it secret, such as trade secrets and know-how, we may not use adequate measures to protect this intellectual property. Third parties have in the past and may in the future also challenge the validity of our issued patents, may circumvent or “design around” our patents and patent applications, or claim that our products, processes or technologies infringe their patents. In addition, third parties may assert that our product names infringe their trademarks. We may incur significant expense in legal proceedings to protect our intellectual property against infringement by third parties or to defend against claims of infringement by third parties. Claims by third parties in pending or future lawsuits could result in awards of substantial damages against us or court orders that could effectively prevent us from manufacturing, using, importing or selling our products in the United States or other countries. If we are unable to renew our licenses or otherwise lose our licensed rights, we may have to stop selling products or we may lose competitive advantage. We may not be able to renew our existing licenses, or licenses we may obtain in the future, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we lose the rights to a patented or other proprietary technology, we may need to stop selling products incorporating that technology and possibly other products, redesign our products or lose a competitive advantage. Potential competitors could in-license technologies that we fail to license and potentially erode our market share. Our licenses typically subject us to various economic and commercialization obligations. If we fail to comply with these obligations, we could lose important rights under a license, such as the right to exclusivity in a market, or incur losses for failing to comply with our contractual obligations. In some cases, we could lose all rights under the license. In addition, rights 22 granted under the license could be lost for reasons out of our control. For example, the licensor could lose patent protection for a number of reasons, including invalidity of the licensed patent, or a third-party could obtain a patent that curtails our freedom to operate under one or more licenses. Risks Related to Legal, Government and Regulatory Matters The manufacture and sale of products and services may expose us to product and other liability claims for which we could have substantial liability. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product and other liability claims if our products, services or product candidates are alleged or found to have caused injury, damage or loss. We may be unable to obtain insurance with adequate levels of coverage for potential liability on acceptable terms or claims of this nature may be excluded from coverage under the terms of any insurance policy that we obtain. If we are unable to obtain such insurance or the amounts of any claims successfully brought against us substantially exceed our coverage, then our business could be adversely impacted. If we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with the regulations of the United States Food and Drug Administration and other governmental agencies in the United States and abroad, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, and we could be subject to civil, criminal or monetary penalties. Our operations are subject to regulation by different state and federal government agencies in the United States and other countries, as well as to the standards established by international standards bodies. If we fail to comply with those regulations or standards, we could be subject to fines, penalties, criminal prosecution or other sanctions. Some of our products are subject to regulation by the United States Food and Drug Administration and similar foreign and domestic agencies. These regulations govern a wide variety of product activities, from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. If we fail to comply with those regulations or standards, we may have to recall products, cease their manufacture and distribution, and may be subject to fines or criminal prosecution. We are also subject to a variety of laws, regulations and standards that govern, among other things, the importation and exportation of products, the handling, transportation and manufacture of toxic or hazardous substances, the collection, storage, transfer, use, disclosure, retention and other processing of personal data, and our business practices in the United States and abroad such as anti-bribery, anti-corruption and competition laws. This requires that we devote substantial resources to maintaining our compliance with those laws, regulations and standards. A failure to do so could result in the imposition of civil, criminal or monetary penalties having a material adverse effect on our operations. Changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. We compete in markets in which we or our customers must comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulations, such as environmental, health and safety, data privacy and food and drug regulations. We develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by these regulations. Any significant change in these regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our costs of producing these products. The healthcare industry is highly regulated and if we fail to comply with its extensive system of laws and regulations, we could suffer fines and penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations which could have a significant adverse effect on the results of our business operations. The healthcare industry, including the genetic screening market, is subject to extensive and frequently changing international and United States federal, state and local laws and regulations. In addition, legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse, patient privacy violations and misconduct involving government insurance programs provide federal enforcement personnel with substantial powers and remedies to pursue suspected violations. We believe that our business will continue to be subject to increasing regulation as the federal government continues to strengthen its position on healthcare matters, the scope and effect of which we cannot predict. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal damages, fines and penalties, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs, and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur liabilities from third-party claims, all of which could have a significant adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to our Foreign Operations Economic, political and other risks associated with foreign operations could adversely affect our international sales and profitability. 23 Because we sell our products worldwide, our businesses are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Our sales originating outside the United States represented the majority of our total revenue in fiscal year 2022. We anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total revenue. In addition, many of our manufacturing facilities, employees and suppliers are located outside the United States. Accordingly, our future results of operations could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: • changes in actual, or from projected, foreign currency exchange rates, • a global health crisis of unknown duration, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, • wars, conflicts, or other changes in a country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, particularly in developing or emerging markets, • longer payment cycles of foreign customers and timing of collections in foreign jurisdictions, • trade protection measures including embargoes, sanctions and tariffs, such as the sanctions and other restrictions implemented by the United States and other governments on the Russian Federation and related parties in connection with the conflict in Ukraine, • import or export licensing requirements and the associated potential for delays or restrictions in the shipment of our products or the receipt of products from our suppliers, • policies in foreign countries benefiting domestic manufacturers or other policies detrimental to companies headquartered in the United States, • differing tax laws and changes in those laws, or changes in the countries in which we are subject to tax, • adverse income tax audit settlements or loss of previously negotiated tax incentives, • differing business practices associated with foreign operations, • difficulty in transferring cash between international operations and the United States, • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, • differing labor laws and changes in those laws, • differing protection of intellectual property and changes in that protection, • expanded enforcement of laws related to data protection and personal privacy, • increasing global enforcement of anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, and • differing regulatory requirements and changes in those requirements. Risks Related to our Debt We have a substantial amount of outstanding debt, which could impact our ability to obtain future financing and limit our ability to make other expenditures in the conduct of our business. We have a substantial amount of debt and other financial obligations. Our debt level and related debt service obligations could have negative consequences, including: • requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes, such as acquisitions and stock repurchases; • reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions; • exposing us to interest rate risk as a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates; • increasing our foreign currency risk as a portion of our debt obligations are in denominations other than the U.S. dollar; and • increasing the chances of a downgrade of our debt ratings due to the amount or intended purpose of our debt obligations. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future to meet future financing needs. If we add new debt, the risks described above could increase. In addition, the market for both public and private debt offerings could experience liquidity concerns and increased volatility as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, which could ultimately increase our borrowing costs and limit our ability to obtain future financing. 24 Restrictions in our senior unsecured revolving credit facility and other debt instruments may limit our activities. Our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, senior unsecured notes due in 2023 (“2023 Notes”), senior unsecured notes due in 2024 (“2024 Notes”), senior unsecured notes due in 2026 (“2026 Notes”), senior unsecured notes due in 2028 (“2028 Notes”), senior unsecured notes due in 2029 (“2029 Notes”), senior unsecured notes due in 2031 (“March 2031 Notes”),  senior unsecured notes due in 2031 (“September 2031 Notes”) and senior unsecured notes due in 2051 (“2051 Notes”) include restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit our company. These include restrictions on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: • pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock, • sell assets, • incur obligations that restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to make dividend or other payments to us, • guarantee or secure indebtedness, • enter into transactions with affiliates, and • consolidate, merge or transfer all, or substantially all, of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. We are also required to meet specified financial ratios under the terms of certain of our existing debt instruments. Our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, changes in technology and changes in the level of competition. In addition, if we are unable to maintain our investment grade credit rating, our borrowing costs would increase and we would be subject to different and potentially more restrictive financial covenants under some of our existing debt instruments. Any future indebtedness that we incur may include similar or more restrictive covenants. Our failure to comply with any of the restrictions in our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, the 2023 Notes, the 2024 Notes, the 2026 Notes, the 2028 Notes, the 2029 Notes, the March 2031 Notes, the September 2031 Notes, the 2051 Notes or any future indebtedness may result in an event of default under those debt instruments, which could permit acceleration of the debt under those debt instruments, and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date under certain circumstances. Discontinuation or replacement of LIBOR may adversely affect our variable rate debt. Our indebtedness under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility bears interest at fluctuating interest rates, primarily based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) for deposits of U.S. dollars. In July 2017, the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority (the authority that regulates LIBOR) announced that it intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021. The discontinuation date for submission and publication of rates for certain tenors of U.S. dollar LIBOR (1-month, 3-month, 6-month, and 12-month) was subsequently extended by the ICE Benchmark Administration (the administrator of LIBOR) until June 30, 2023. The Alternative Reference Rates Committee in the United States has proposed that the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”), calculated using short-term repurchase agreements backed by U.S. Treasury securities, is the rate that represents best practice as the alternative to U.S. dollar LIBOR for use in derivatives and other financial contracts that are currently indexed to LIBOR. No later than June 30, 2023, our indebtedness under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility will be indexed to a replacement benchmark based on SOFR in accordance with the terms of that facility. This change could cause the effective interest rate under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility and our overall interest expense to increase, in which event we may have difficulties making interest payments and funding our other fixed costs, and our available cash flow for general corporate requirements may be adversely affected. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock Our share price will fluctuate. Over the last several years, stock markets in general and our common stock in particular have experienced significant price and volume volatility. Both the market price and the daily trading volume of our common stock may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market conditions but also to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations and business prospects. In addition to the risk factors discussed above, the price and volume volatility of our common stock may be affected by: • operating results that vary from our financial guidance or the expectations of securities analysts and investors, • the financial performance of the major end markets that we target, • the operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us, 25 • announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors, • changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, inflation, freight costs, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets, and • changes to economic conditions arising from global health crises such as the COVID-19 pandemic or from wars or conflicts. Dividends on our common stock could be reduced or eliminated in the future. On October 26, 2022, we announced that our Board of Directors (our “Board”) had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2022 that was paid in February 2023 . On January 26, 2023, we announced that our Board had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share for the first quarter of fiscal year 2023 that will be payable in May 2023. In the future, our Board may determine to reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in order to fund investments for growth, repurchase shares or conserve capital resources.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

This annual report on Form 10-K, including the following management’s discussion and analysis, contains forward-looking information that you should read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements that we have included elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. For this purpose, any statements contained in this report that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Words such as “believes,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “will” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from the plans, intentions or expectations we disclose in the forward-looking statements we make. We have included important factors above under the heading “Risk Factors” in Item 1A above that we believe could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements we make. We are not obligated to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Accounting Period Our fiscal year ends on the Sunday nearest December 31. We report fiscal years under a 52/53 week format and as a result, certain fiscal years will contain 53 weeks. Each of the fiscal years ended January 1, 2023 (“fiscal year 2022”) and January 2, 2022 (“fiscal year 2021”) included 52 weeks. The fiscal year ended January 3, 2021 (“fiscal year 2020”) included 53 weeks. The fiscal year ending December 31, 2023 (“fiscal year 2023”) will include 52 weeks. Overview of Fiscal Year 2022 During fiscal year 2022, we continued to see strong returns from our acquisitions as well as our organic investments across technology, marketing and people. Our overall revenue in fiscal year 2022 decreased by $516.0 million, or 13%, as compared to fiscal year 2021, reflecting a decrease of $913.0 million, or 31%, in our Diagnostics segment revenue, partially offset by an increase of $395.2 million, or 44%, in our Discovery & Analytical Solutions segment revenue. Revenue from our 2021 acquisitions contributed $366.9 million to our overall revenue during fiscal year 2022. The decrease in our Diagnostics segment revenue during fiscal year 2022 was primarily driven by decreased demand for our COVID-19 product offerings, partially offset by an increase in our core product offerings resulting in a decrease of $689.0 million in our immunodiagnostics revenue and a decrease of $225.8 million in our applied genomics revenue. Revenue from our 2021 acquisitions contributed $58.1 million to our Diagnostics segment revenue during fiscal year 2022 . The increase in our Discovery & Analytical Solutions segment revenue during fiscal year 2022 was driven by an increase of $395.2 million in our life sciences market revenue. Revenu e from our 2021 acquisitions contributed $308.7 million to the increase in our Discovery & Analytical Solutions segment revenue during fiscal year 2022. In our Diagnostics segment, we experienced a global decline in demand for our COVID-19 product offerings due to the cancellation of our service contracts for the State of California and the United Kingdom, and lower COVID-19 testing volumes compared to fiscal year 2021. We saw strong growth in our core immunodiagnostics business in the Americas and Europe, partially offset by the impact of extensive shutdowns in China. In our reproductive health business, an expanded range of product offerings and increased geographic reach more than offset the impact of declining birthrates. In our Discovery & Analytical Solutions segment, the increase in our life sciences market revenue was the result of an increase in revenue in our pharmaceutical and biotechnology markets across all regions. Instruments, reagents and software experienced strong growth and we saw a positive impact from pricing actions we took in early 2022. Our consolidated gross margins decreased 350 basis points in fiscal year 2022, as compared to fiscal year 2021, primarily due to increased amortization of acquired intangible assets and lower revenue from our COVID-19 product offerings, partially offset by a favorable shift in product mix and service productivity. Our consolidated operating margin decreased 1,045 basis points in fiscal year 2022, as compared to fiscal year 2021, primarily due to lower revenue from our COVID-19 product offerings, increased costs related to amortization of acquired intangible assets, and investments in new product development and growth initiatives. During fiscal year 2022, supply chain disruptions and inflation did not materially impact our results of operations as compared to fiscal year 2021 as the effects of our initiatives to reduce transportation costs more than offset the impact of inflation on our raw materials purchases. During fiscal year 2022, supply chain disruptions and inflation increased our cost of goods sold by less than $10.0 million as compared to fiscal year 2021. Overall, we believe that our strategic priorities and recent portfolio transformations, coupled with our expanded range of product offerings, leading market positions, global scale and financial strength provides us with a foundation for continued revenue growth, strong margins and cash flows, and long-term earnings per share growth. 31 Consolidated Results of Operations Fiscal Year 2022 Compared to Fiscal Year 2021 Revenue Revenue for fiscal year 2022 was $3.3 billion, as compared to $3.8 billion for fiscal year 2021, a decrease of $0.5 billion, or 13%, w hich includes an approximate 4% decrease in revenue attributable to unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates, partially offset by an approximate 9% increase in revenue attributable to acquisitions . Revenue from our 2021 acquisitions contributed $366.9 million to our overall revenue during fiscal year 2022. The analysis in the remainder of this paragraph compares segment revenue for fiscal year 2022 as compared to fiscal year 2021 and includes the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, and acquisitions and divestitures. The decrease in total revenue reflects a decrease in our Diagnostics segment revenue of $913.0 million, or 31%, due to decreased demand for our COVID-19 product offerings, partially offset by an increase in our core product offerings resulting in a decrease of $689.0 million in our immunodiagnostics revenue and a decrease of $225.8 million in our applied genomics revenue. Our Discovery & Analytical Solutions segment revenue increased by $395.2 million, or 44%, due to increase in revenue in our life sciences market, particularly in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology markets. As a result of adjustments to deferred revenue related to certain acquisitions required by business combination rules, we did not recognize $0.8 million and $2.6 million of revenue for fiscal years 2022 and 2021, respectively, that otherwise would have been recorded by the acquired businesses during each of the respective periods. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue for fiscal year 2022 was $1.3 billion, as compared to $1.4 billion for fiscal year 2021, a decrease of approximately $71.8 million, or 5%. As a percentage of revenue, cost of revenue increased to 40% in fiscal year 2022 from 36% in fiscal year 2021, resulting in a decrease in gross margin of approximately 350 basis points to 60% in fiscal year 2022 from 64% in fiscal year 2021. Amortization of intangible assets increased to $141.6 million for fiscal year 2022, as compared to $100.7 million for fiscal year 2021. Amortization of intangible assets from our 2021 acquisitions amounted to $88.5 million for fiscal year 2022. The amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to record the inventory from certain acquisitions added an incremental expense of $45.3 million for fiscal year 2022, as compared to $35.2 million for fiscal year 2021. Other purchase accounting adjustments added an incremental expense of $6.2 million for fiscal year 2022, of which $5.6 million was acquisition-related stock compensation and $0.6 million was increased depreciation on property, plant and equipme nt. The overall decrease in gross margin was partially offset by a favorable shift in product mix, pricing actions and service productivity. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal year 2022 were $1,025.5 million, as compared to $975.2 million for fiscal year 2021, an increase of approximately $50.3 million, or 5%. As a percentage of revenue, selling, general and administrative expenses increased to 31% in fiscal year 2022 from 25% in fiscal year 2021. Amortization of intangible assets increased to $229.1 million for fiscal year 2022, as compared to $155.9 million for fiscal year 2021. Amortization of intangible assets from our 2021 acquisitions amounted to $135.3 million for fiscal year 2022. Acquisition and divestiture-related expenses added an incremental expense of $28.9 million for fiscal year 2022, of which $15.6 million was acquisition-related stock compensation, as compared to acquisition and divestiture-related expenses increasing expenses by $59.7 million for fiscal year 2021, of which $3.9 million was acquisition-related stock compensation. Purchase accounting adjustments decreased expenses by $1.2 million for fiscal year 2022, resulting from a $1.4 million change in contingent consideration, partially offset by $0.2 million in increased depreciation on property, plant and equipment, as compared to purchase accounting adjustments increasing expenses by $2.9 million for fiscal year 2021, which was attributable to change in contingent consideration. Asset impairment costs added an incremental expense of $3.9 million for fiscal year 2021. Legal costs for significant litigation matters and settlements, net of reversals, decreased expenses by $0.6 million for fiscal year 2022. In addition to the above items, the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily the result of costs related to investments in people, digital capabilities, innovation, and recent acquisitions. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses for fiscal year 2022 were $221.6 million, as compared to $200.3 million for fiscal year 2021, an increase of $21.3 million, or 11%. As a percentage of revenue, research and development expenses increased to 7% in fiscal year 2022 from 5% in fiscal year 2021. Stock compensation related to our acquisitions added an incremental expense of $5.4 million in fiscal year 2022, as compared to $1.4 million for fiscal year 2021. Purchase accounting adjustments for depreciation on property, plant and equipment added an incremental expense of $0.2 million in fiscal year 2022, as compared to $0.1 million for fiscal year 2021. Excluding the factors above, the net increase in research and development 32 expenses was due to timing of investments in new non-COVID-19 product development, partially offset by a decrease in COVID-19 related research and development expenses. Interest and Other Expense, Net Interest and other expense, net, consisted of the following for the fiscal years ended: The increase of $36.0 million in interest and other expense, net, in fiscal year 2022 as compared to fiscal year 2021 was largely due to a change in fair value of financial securities of $15.8 million in fiscal year 2022 as compared to $(11.0) million in fiscal year 2021, an increase of $1.8 million in interest expense and $4.5 million in other expense, net in fiscal year 2022 and a lower net pension credit of $33.2 million in fiscal year 2022 as compared to $37.4 million in fiscal year 2021. A more complete discussion of our liquidity is set forth below under the heading “Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Provision for Income Taxes The effective tax rates on continuing operations were 21.3% and 26.1% for fiscal years 2022 and 2021, respectively. Certain of our subsidiaries have, at various times, been granted tax relief in their respective countries, resulting in lower income taxes than would otherwise be the case under statutory tax rates. A reconciliation of income tax expense at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate to the recorded tax provision is as follows for the fiscal years ended: The variation in our effective tax rate for fiscal year 2022 is primarily affected by the accrual of $20.5 million related to a change in tax status of a certain foreign subsidiary. During fiscal year 2021, we also recognized $37.1 million in U.S. federal, U.S. state and non-U.S. taxes related to foreign earnings that we no longer considered indefinitely reinvested. During fiscal year 2022, we adjusted these estimates and recognized a net benefit of $4.9 million relative to our position to permanently reinvest those foreign earnings. We also recognized $1.1 million of benefit in fiscal year 2022 derived from the tax holiday in Singapore. We recognized $18.2 million in fiscal year 2021 of benefits derived from tax holidays in China and Singapore. The effect of these benefits, derived from tax holidays, on basic and diluted earnings per share for fiscal year 2022 was $0.01 and $0.01, respectively, and for fiscal year 2021 was $0.16 and $0.16, respectively. The tax holiday in China is renewed every three years. We expect to renew the tax holiday for one of our subsidiaries in China that is set to expire in fiscal year 2023. 33 Fiscal Year 2021 Compared to Fiscal Year 2020 Revenue Revenue for fiscal year 2021 was $3.8 billion, as compared to $2.7 billion for fiscal year 2020, an increase of $1.2 billion, or 44%, w hich includes an approximate 11% increase in revenue attributable to acquisitions, and a 1% increase in revenue attributable to favorable changes in foreign exchange rates. The analysis in the remainder of this paragraph compares segment revenue for fiscal year 2021 as compared to fiscal year 2020 and includes the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, and acquisitions and divestitures. The total increase in revenue reflects an increase in our Diagnostics segment revenue of $865.0 million, or 42%, due to increased demand for our COVID-19 product offerings resulting in an increase of $748.0 million in our immunodiagnostics revenue. Our Diagnostics segment revenue also increase d during fiscal year 2021 due to growth in our core product offerings resulting in an increase of $58.0 million in our reproductive health revenue and an increase of $59.0 million in our applied genomics revenue. Our Discovery & Analytical Solutions segment revenue increased by $301.1 million , or 50%, due to an increase in revenue in our life sciences market, particularly in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology markets. As a result of adjustments to deferred revenue related to certain acquisitions required by business combination rules, we did not recognize $2.6 million and $1.1 million of revenue for fiscal years 2021 and 2020, respectively, that otherwise would have been recorded by the acquired businesses during each of the respective periods. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue for fiscal year 2021 was $1.4 billion, as compared to $933.1 million for fiscal year 2020, an increase of approximately $460.8 million, or 49%. As a percentage of revenue, cost of revenue increased to 36% in fiscal year 2021 from 35% in fiscal year 2020, resulting in a decrease in gross margin of approximately 138 basis points to 64% in fiscal year 2021 from 65% in fiscal year 2020. Amortization of intangible assets increased and was $100.7 million for fiscal year 2021,  as compared to $51.4 million for fiscal year 2020. Amortization of intangible assets from our 2021 acquisitions amounted to $34.0 million for fiscal year 2021. The amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to record the inventory from certain acquisitions added an incremental expense of $35.2 million for fiscal year 2021, as compared to $1.8 million for fiscal year 2020. Other purchase accounting adjustments added an incremental expense of $1.8 million in fiscal year 2021, of which $1.6 million was acquisition-related stock compensation and $0.2 million was increased depreciation on property, plant and equipment. Asset impairment was $7.9 million for fiscal year 2020. The overall decrease in gross margin was partially offset by a favorable shift in product mix and service productivity. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal year 2021 were $975.2 million, as compared to $716.5 million for fiscal year 2020, an increase of approximately $258.7 million, or 36%. As a percentage of revenue, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to 25% in fiscal year 2021 from 27% in fiscal year 2020. Amortization of intangible assets increased to $155.9 million for fiscal year 2021, as compared to $109.6 million for fiscal year 2020. Amortization of intangible assets from our 2021 acquisitions amounted to $37.2 million for fiscal year 2021. Acquisition and divestiture-related expenses added an incremental expense of $59.7 million for fiscal year 2021, of which $3.9 million was acquisition-related stock compensation, as compared to acquisition and divestiture-related expenses increasing expenses by $4.3 million for fiscal year 2020. Purchase accounting adjustments added an incremental expense of $2.9 million for fiscal year 2021, of which $2.8 million was change in contingent consideration and $0.1 million was increased depreciation on property, plant and equipment, as compared to purchase accounting adjustments increasing expenses by $3.5 million for fiscal year 2020, which was attributable to change in contingent consideration. Asset impairment costs added an incremental expense of $3.9 million for fiscal year 2021. Legal costs for significant litigation matters and settlements were $5.9 million for fiscal year 2020. Costs for significant environmental matters were $5.2 million for fiscal year 2020. In addition to the above items, the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily the result of costs related to investments in people, digital capabilities and innovation, and recent acquisitions amplified by pandemic-related cost controls and disruptions in the prior year. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses for fiscal year 2021 were $200.3 million, as compared to $146.4 million for fiscal year 2020, an increase of $53.9 million, or 36.8%. Research and development expenses from our 2021 acquisitions were $24.0 million. As a percentage of revenue, research and development expenses decreased and were 5.2% for fiscal year 2021, as compared to 5.5% for fiscal year 2020. Stock compensation related to our acquisitions added an incremental expense of $1.4 million in fiscal year 2021. Purchase accounting adjustments for depreciation on property, plant and equipment added an incremental expense of $0.1 million in fiscal year 2021. The increase in research and development expenses was driven by our investments in new product development. 34 Interest and Other Expense, Net Interest and other expense, net, consisted of the following for the fiscal years ended: The decrease of $12.3 million in interest and other expense, net, in fiscal year 2021 as compared to fiscal year 2020 was largely due to a net pension credit of $37.4 million in fiscal year 2021 as compared to a net pension cost of $13.8 million in fiscal year 2020, a decrease in other expense, net of $1.4 million and a change in fair value of financial securities of $11.0 million, partially offset by an increase of $52.4 million in interest expense in fiscal year 2021. The increase of $52.4 million in interest expense in fiscal year 2021 was the result of $23.4 million of costs of bridge financing and debt pre-issuance hedges that were recognized in fiscal year 2021 and interest expense from new debt in fiscal year 2021. A more complete discussion of our liquidity is set forth below under the heading “Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Provision for Income Taxes The effective tax rates on continuing operations were 26.1% and 21.2% for fiscal years 2021 and 2020, respectively. Certain of our subsidiaries have, at various times, been granted tax relief in their respective countries, resulting in lower income taxes than would otherwise be the case under statutory tax rates. A reconciliation of income tax expense at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate to the recorded tax provision is as follows for the fiscal years ended: The variation in our effective tax rate for fiscal year 2021 is primarily affected by the recognition of $37.1 million in U.S. federal, U.S. state and non-U.S. taxes related to foreign earnings that we no longer considered indefinitely reinvested. We also recognized $18.2 million in fiscal year 2021 and $12.7 million in fiscal year 2020 of benefits derived from tax holidays in China and Singapore. The effect of these benefits, derived from tax holidays, on basic and diluted earnings per share for fiscal year 2021 was $0.16 and $0.16, respectively, and for fiscal year 2020 was $0.11 and $0.11, respectively. 35 Business Combinations Acquisitions in fiscal year 2022 During fiscal year 2022, we completed the acquisition of two businesses for aggregate consideration of $13.3 million. Identifiable definite-lived intangible assets, such as core technology, acquired as part of these acquisitions had a weighted average amortization period of 5 years. Acquisitions in fiscal year 2021 Acquisition of BioLegend, Inc. In fiscal year 2021, we completed the acquisition of BioLegend, Inc. ( “ BioLegend ” ) for an aggregate consideration of $5.7 billion. BioLegend’s revenue and net loss for the period from the acquisition date to January 2, 2022 were $91.7 million and $25.8 million, respectively. Other acquisitions in 2021. During fiscal year 2021, we also completed the acquisition of seven other businesses for aggregate consideration of $1.2 billion. The acquired businesses include Oxford Immunotec Global PLC for a total consideration of $590.9 million and Nexcelom Bioscience Holdings, LLC for a total consideration of $267.3 million, and five other businesses, which were acquired for a total consideration of $318.6 million. See Note 3, Business Combinations, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed discussion of our acquisitions. Reporting Segment Results of Continuing Operations Discovery & Analytical Solutions Fiscal Year 2022 Compared to Fiscal Year 2021 Revenue for fiscal year 2022 was $1,292.9 million, as compared to $897.7 million for fiscal year 2021, an increase of $395.2 million, or 44%, which includes an approximate 32% increase in revenue attributable to acquisitions and a 4% decrease in revenue attributable to unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates. Revenue from our 2021 acquisitions contributed $308.7 million to the Discovery & Analytical Solutions segment revenue during fiscal year 2022. The increase in revenue in our Discovery & Analytical Solutions segment was a result of an increase in revenue in our life sciences market, particularly in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology markets. Segment operating income for fiscal year 2022 was $503.2 million, as compared to $281.6 million for fiscal year 2021, an increase of $221.6 million, or 79%. Segment operating margin increased 750 basis points in fiscal year 2022, as compared to fiscal year 2021, primarily due to pricing actions, product mix and higher sales volume. Fiscal Year 2021 Compared to Fiscal Year 2020 Revenue for fiscal year 2021 was $897.7 million, as compared to $596.6 million for fiscal year 2020, an increase of $301.1 million, or 50%, which includes an approximate 33% increase in revenue attributable to acquisitions and a 1% increase in revenue attributable to favorable changes in foreign exchange rates. The increase in revenue in our Discovery & Analytical Solutions segment was a result of an increase in revenue in our life sciences market, particularly in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology markets. Segment operating income for fiscal year 2021 was $281.6 million, as compared to $129.2 million for fiscal year 2020, an increase of $152.4 million, or 118%. Segment operating margin increased 970 basis points in fiscal year 2021, as compared to fiscal year 2020, primarily due to higher sales volume, partially offset by investments in new product development and growth initiatives. 36 Diagnostics Fiscal Year 2022 Compared to Fiscal Year 2021 Revenue for fiscal year 2022 was $2,019.7 million, as compared to $2,932.7 million for fiscal year 2021, a decrease of $913.0 million, or 31%, which includes an appro ximate 2% increase in revenue attributable to acquisitions and a 4% decrease in revenue attributable to unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates. Revenue from our 2021 acquisitions contribute d $58.1 million to our Dia gnostics segment revenue during fiscal year 2022. The decrease in our Diagnostics segment revenue during fiscal year 2022 was primarily driven by decreased demand for our COVID-19 product offerings, partially offset by an increase in our core product offerings resulting in a decrease of $689.0 million in our immunodiagnostics revenue, a decrease of $225.8 million in our applied genomics revenue, and an increase of $1.7 million in our reproductive health revenue. Segment operating income from continuing operations for fiscal year 2022 was $782.0 million, as compared to $1,432.8 million for fiscal year 2021, a decrease of $650.8 million, or 45%. Segment operating margin decreased 1,020 basis points in fiscal year 2022, as compared to fiscal year 2021, primarily due to lower sales volume and product mix, partially offset by cost controls. Fiscal Year 2021 Compared to Fiscal Year 2020 Revenue for fiscal year 2021 was $2,932.7 million , as compared to $2,067.7 million for fiscal year 2020, an increase of $865.0 million, or 42%, which includes an approximate 5% increase in revenue attributable to acquisitions and a 2% increase in revenue attributable to favorable changes in foreign exchange rates. The increase in our Diagnostics segment revenue during fiscal year 2021 was primarily driven by increased demand for our COVID-19 product offerings resulting in an increase of $748.0 million in our immunodiagnostics revenue. Our Diagnostics segment revenue also increased during fiscal year 2021 due to growth in our core product offerings resulting in an increase of $58.0 million in our reproductive health revenue and an increase of $59.0 million in our applied genomics revenue. Segment operating income for fiscal year 2021 was $1,432.8 million, as compared to $1,010.4 million for fiscal year 2020, an increase of $422.4 million, or 42%. Segment operating margin was flat in fiscal year 2021, as compared to fiscal year 2020, primarily due to higher sales volume and favorable product mix, offset by increased investments in new product development and growth initiatives. Discontinued Operations In August 2022, we entered into a Master Purchase and Sale Agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) with Polaris Purchaser, L.P. (the “Purchaser”), a Delaware limited partnership owned by funds managed by affiliates of New Mountain Capital L.L.C. (the “Sponsor”), under which we agreed to sell to the Purchaser certain assets and the equity interests of certain entities constituting our Analytical, Food and Enterprise Services businesses (the “Business”) (as further defined in the Purchase Agreement), for cash consideration of up to approximately $2.45 billion and the Purchaser’s assumption of certain liabilities relating to the Business (collectively, the “Transaction”). Approximately $2.30 billion of the purchase price will be payable at closing, subject to certain customary adjustments, which includes $75.0 million in deferred payments tied to the transfer of the PerkinElmer brand and related trademarks to the Purchaser (which may be completed within 24 months following the date of the closing at our election). The Purchase Agreement also provides for potential post-closing payments totaling up to $150.0 million, which are contingent on the exit valuation the Sponsor and its affiliated funds receive on a sale or other capital events related to the Business. The Transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of fiscal year 2023, subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. The Business had been recorded in the Discovery & Analytical Solutions segment. The sale of the Business represents a strategic shift that will have a major effect on our operations and financial statements. Accordingly, we have classified the assets and liabilities related to the Business as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations in our consolidated balance sheets and its results of operations are classified as income from discontinued operations in our consolidated statements of operations. Financial information in this report relating to the fiscal years ended January 2, 2022 and January 3, 2021 has been retrospectively adjusted to reflect this discontinued operation. The summary pre-tax operating results of the discontinued operations, were as follows: 37 During fiscal year 2022, we recognized $69.4 million of divestiture-related costs in selling, general and administrative expenses in discontinued operations, as compared to $7.5 million during fiscal year 2021, an increase of $61.9 million. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was partially offset by decreased amortization expense and acquisition-related costs. During fiscal year 2022, we recognized $8.2 million of amortization expense in selling, general and administrative expenses in discontinued operations, as compared to $19.3 million during fiscal year 2021, a decrease of $11.1 million, as we suspended the amortization of the intangible assets related to the Business during fiscal year 2022 when it was reclassified into discontinued operations. During fiscal year 2022, we recognized $6.4 million of incentive award associated with one of the Company’s acquisitions in discontinued operations, as compared to $14.3 million during fiscal year 2021, a decrease of $7.8 million. During fiscal year 2021, divestiture-related costs in selling, general and administrative expenses in discontinued operations increased by $7.5 million as compared to fiscal year 2020. In addition, payroll and employee benefits and acquisition-related costs pertaining to an incentive award associated with one of the Company’s acquisitions increased by $20.4 million and $9.6 million, respectively, as compared to fiscal year 2020. Liquidity and Capital Resources We require cash to pay our operating expenses, make capital expenditures, make strategic acquisitions, service our debt and other long-term liabilities, repurchase shares of our common stock and pay dividends on our common stock. Our principal sources of funds are cash flows from our operations, borrowing capacity available under our senior unsecured credit facility and access to the debt markets. We anticipate that our internal operations will generate sufficient cash to fund our operating expenses, capital expenditures, smaller acquisitions, interest payments on our debt and dividends on our common stock. However, we expect to use external sources to satisfy the balance of our debt when due, any larger acquisitions and other long-term liabilities, such as contributions to our postretirement benefit plans. The proposed sale of the Business classified as discontinued operations is expected to close in the first quarter of fiscal year 2023, which we expect will generate approximately $2.2 billion of proceeds to us. We expect to use these proceeds for funding upcoming debt maturities, opportunistic share repurchases and continued strategic and value-creating acquisitions. We and our subsidiaries and affiliates may from time to time, in our sole discretion, purchase, repay, redeem or retire any of our outstanding debt securities (including any publicly issued debt securities), in privately negotiated or open market transactions, by tender offer or otherwise, or extend or refinance any of our outstanding indebtedness. Principal factors that could affect the availability of our internally generated funds include: • changes in sales due to weakness in markets in which we sell our products and services, and • changes in our working capital requirements. Principal factors that could affect our ability to obtain cash from external sources include: • financial covenants contained in the financial instruments controlling our borrowings that limit our total borrowing capacity, • increases in interest rates applicable to our outstanding variable rate debt, • a ratings downgrade that could limit the amount we can borrow under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility and our overall access to the corporate debt market, 38 • increases in interest rates or credit spreads, as well as limitations on the availability of credit, that affect our ability to borrow under future potential facilities on a secured or unsecured basis, • a decrease in the market price for our common stock, and • volatility in the public debt and equity markets. Cash Flows Fiscal Year 2022 Compared to Fiscal Year 2021 Operating Activities. Net cash provided by continuing operations was $672.5 million for fiscal year 2022, as compared to $1,330.2 million for fiscal year 2021, a decrease of $657.7 million. The cash provided by operating activities for fiscal year 2022 was principally a result of income from continuing operations of $512.7 million, adjustments for non-cash charges aggregating to $422.8 million, including depreciation and amortization of $427.0 million, and a net cash decrease in working capital of $263.0 million. During fiscal year 2022, we contributed $6.6 million, in the aggregate, to pension plans outside of the United States. Investing Activities. Net cash used in the investing activities of our continuing operations was $116.9 million for fiscal year 2022, as compared to $4,089.8 million for fiscal year 2021, a decrease of $3,972.9 million. For fiscal year 2022, we used $7.5 million of net cash for acquisitions, as compared to $3,982.2 million used in fiscal year 2021. Capital expenditures for fiscal year 2022 were $85.6 million, primarily for manufacturing equipment and other capital equipment purchases, as compared to $86.0 million for fiscal year 2021. During fiscal year 2022, we purchased investments amounting to $47.2 million as compared to $23.1 million in fiscal year 2021. These items were partially offset by $14.5 million in proceeds from disposition of businesses and assets in fiscal year 2022, as compared to $1.5 million in fiscal year 2021. In addition, proceeds from notes receivable were $8.9 million in fiscal year 2022 . Proceeds from surrender of life insurance policies were $0.1 million in fiscal year 2021. Financing Activities. Net cash used in the financing activities of our continuing operations was $661.8 million for fiscal year 2022, as compared to net cash provided by the financing activities of our continuing operations of $2,941.7 million for fiscal year 2021, an increase of $3,603.5 million in net cash used in financing activities. The cash used in financing activities during fiscal year 2022 was primarily a result of payments of borrowings, repurchases of our common stock, payments of dividends and settlement of cash flow hedges. During fiscal year 2022, we made net payments on our borrowings of $559.2 million, as compared to net proceeds from borrowin gs of $3,043.0 million duri ng fiscal year 2021. The changes reflect financing transactions in fiscal year 2021 to finance acquisitions and to refinance borrowings as compared to paying down debt in fiscal year 2022, which we expect to continue throughout fiscal year 2023. During fiscal year 2022, we repurchased shares of our common stock for a total cost of $80.6 million, as compared to $73.1 million in fiscal year 2021. During fiscal year 2022, we paid $35.3 million in dividends as compared to $32.4 million for fiscal year 2021. We paid $0.8 million in settlement of hedges during fiscal year 2022 as compared to $4.5 million for fiscal year 2021. In addition, we paid $14.3 million for settlement of a swap and $2.2 million for acquisition-related contingent consideration in fiscal year 2021. The cash used in financing activities during fiscal year 2022 was partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock plans of $14.1 million during fiscal year 2022, as compared to $25.1 million for fiscal year 2021. Fiscal Year 2021 Compared to Fiscal Year 2020 Operating Activities. Net cash provided by continuing operations was $1,330.2 million for fiscal year 2021, as compared to $704.7 million for fiscal year 2020, an increase of $625.5 million. The cash provided by operating activities for fiscal year 2021 was principally a result of income from continuing operations of $889.4 million, adjustments for non-cash charges aggregating to $307.8 million, including depreciation and amortization of $311.4 million, and a net cash increase in working capital of $133.0 million. During fiscal year 2021, $1.7 million of contingent consideration payments were included in operating activities. During fiscal year 2021, we contributed $6.9 million, in the aggregate, to pension plans outside of the United States and $20.0 million to our defined benefit pension plan in the United States. Investing Activities. Net cash used in the investing activities of our continuing operations was $4,089.8 million for fiscal year 2021, as compared to $490.6 million for fiscal year 2020, an increase of $3,599.2 million. For fiscal year 2021, we used $3,982.2 million of net cash for acquisitions, as compared to $411.5 million used in fiscal year 2020. Capital expenditures for fiscal year 2021 were $86.0 million, primarily for manufacturing equipment and other capital equipment purchases, as compared to $63.6 million for fiscal year 2020. During fiscal year 2021, we purchased investments amounting to $23.1 million as compared to $20.1 million in fiscal year 2020. These items were partially offset by $1.5 million in proceeds from disposition of businesses and assets in fiscal year 2021, as compared to $4.3 million in fiscal year 2020, and by proceeds from surrender of life insurance policies of $0.1 million in fiscal year 2021, as compared to $0.3 million in fiscal year 2020. 39 Financing Activities. Net cash provided by the financing activities of our continuing operations was $2,941.7 million for fiscal year 2021, as compared to net cash used in the financing activities of our continuing operations of $202.9 million for fiscal year 2020, an increase of $3,144.5 million in net cash provided by financing activities. The cash provided by financing activities during fiscal year 2021 was primarily a result of net proceeds from borrowings and proceeds from the issuance of common stock under stock plans. During fiscal year 2021 , we had net proceeds from borrowings of $3,043.0 million, as compared to net payments on borrowings of $187.5 million duri ng fiscal year 2020 . The changes reflect financing transactions in fiscal year 2021 to finance acquisitions and to refinance borrowings as compared to paying down debt in fiscal year 2020. Proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock plans were $25.1 million during fiscal year 2021, as compared to $37.7 million for fiscal year 2020. The cash provided by financing activities during fiscal year 2021 was partially offset by repurchases of our common stock, payments of dividends, settlement of swaps, settlement of cash flow hedges and payments for acquisition-related contingent consideration. During fiscal year 2021, we repurchased shares of common stock for a total cost of $73.1 million, as compared to $6.9 million in fiscal year 2020. During fiscal year 2021, we paid $32.4 million in dividends as compared to $31.2 million for fiscal year 2020. During fiscal year 2021, we paid $14.3 million for settlement of a swap. We paid $4.5 million in settlement of hedges during fiscal year 2021 as compared to $4.6 million for fiscal year 2020. During fiscal year 2021, we paid $2.2 million for acquisition-related contingent consideration as compared to $10.4 million in fiscal year 2020. Borrowing Arrangements During fiscal year 2022, we repaid the full $500.0 million principal amount of the term loan facility. Since the beginning of the third quarter of fiscal year 2022, we have repurchased $32.9 million and $78.8 million in aggregate principal amount of our 0.550% senior unsecured notes due in September 2023 (the “2023 Notes” ) and 0.850% senior unsecured notes due in September 2024 (the “2024 Notes” ), respectively, in open market transactions. We expect to complete the repayment of the $467.1 million in outstanding 2023 Notes in fiscal year 2023. We expect to continue repurchasing outstanding 2024 Notes from time to time, subject to market conditions. See Note 13, Debt, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed discussion of our borrowing arrangements. Dividends Our Board of Directors (our “Board”) declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share in each quarter of fiscal years 2022, 2021 and 2020, resulting in an annual dividend rate of $0.28 per share. At January 1, 2023, we had accrued $8.8 million for a dividend declared in October 2022 for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2022 that was paid in February 2023. On January 26, 2023, we announced that our Board had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share for the first quarter of fiscal year 2023 that will be payable in May 2023. In the future, our Board may determine to reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in order to fund investments for growth, repurchase shares or conserve capital resources. Capital Expenditures During fiscal year 2023, we expect to invest an amount for capital expenditures similar to that in fiscal year 2022, primarily to introduce new products, to improve our operating processes, to shift the production capacity to lower cost locations, and to develop information technology. We expect to use our available cash and internally generated funds to fund these expenditures. Other Potential Liquidity Considerations At January 1, 2023, we had cash and cash equivalents of $454.4 million, of which $385.4 million was held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries, and we had $1.5 billion of additional borrowing capacity available under a senior unsecured revolving credit facility. We had no other liquid investments at January 1, 2023. We utilize a variety of tax planning and financing strategies to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. We use our non-U.S. cash for needs outside of the United States including foreign operations, capital investments, acquisitions and repayment of debt. In addition, we transfer cash to the United States using nontaxable returns of capital, distributions of previously taxed income, as well as dividends, where the related income tax cost is managed efficiently. We have accrued tax expense on the unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries as required by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “ Tax Act ” ) and where the foreign earnings are not considered permanently reinvested. In accordance with the Tax Act, we are making scheduled annual cash payments on our accrued transition tax. As of January 1, 2023, we evaluated our undistributed foreign earnings and identified approximately $879.0 million in earnings that we do not consider to be permanently reinvested. We have recorded a provision of approximately $15.8 million for taxes that would fall due when such earnings are repatriated. We began repatriating foreign earnings to the United States in the first quarter of fiscal year 2022 and expect to continue the repatriation in fiscal year 2023. There are no other undistributed 40 foreign earnings and outside basis differences for which we have not provided for any taxes as these amounts continue to be indefinitely reinvested, and it is not practicable to estimate the amount of deferred tax liability that would be incurred. On July 31, 2020, our Board authorized us to repurchase shares of common stock for an aggregate amount up to $250.0 million under a stock repurchase program (the “Repurchase Program”). On July 22, 2022, the Repurchase Program was terminated by our Board and the Board authorized us to repurchase shares of common stock for an aggregate amount up to $300.0 million under a new stock repurchase program (the “ New Repurchase Program ” ). No shares remain available for repurchase under the Repurchase Program due to its termination. The New Repurchase Pro gram will expire on July 22, 2024 unless terminated earlier by our Board and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. During fiscal year 2022 , we repurchased 240,000 shares of common stock under the Repurchase Program for an aggregate cost of $43.4 million. During fiscal year 2022 , we repurchased 138,025 shares of common stock under the New Repurchase Program for an aggregate cost of $19.1 million . As of January 1, 2023, $280.9 million remained available for aggregate repurchases of shares under the New Repurchase Program. In addition, our Board has authorized us to repurchase shares of common stock to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards and restricted stock unit awards granted pursuant to our equity incentive plans and to satisfy obligations related to the exercise of stock options made pursuant to our equity incentive plans. During fiscal year 2022, we repurchased 115,247 shares of common stock for this purpose at an aggregate cost of $18.1 million. During fiscal year 2021, we repurchased 71,248 shares of common stock for this purpose at an aggregate cost of $10.5 million. The repurchased shares have been reflected as additional authorized but unissued shares, with the payments reflected in common stock and capital in excess of par value. Any repurchased shares will be available for use in connection with corporate programs. If we continue to repurchase shares, the New Repurchase Program will be funded using our existing financial resources, including cash and cash equivalents, and our existing senior unsecured revolving credit facility. As of January 1, 2023, we may have to pay contingent consideration, related to acquisitions with open contingency periods, of up to $106.2 million. As of January 1, 2023, we have recorded contingent consideration obligations of $46.6 million, of which $3.6 million was recorded in accrued expenses and other current liabilities, and $43.0 million was recorded in long-term liabilities. The expected maximum earnout period for acquisitions with open contingency periods is 5.9 years from January 1, 2023, and the remaining weighted average expected earnout period at January 1, 2023 was 4.9 years. Distressed global financial markets could adversely impact general economic conditions by reducing liquidity and credit availability, creating increased volatility in security prices, widening credit spreads and decreasing valuations of certain investments. The widening of credit spreads may create a less favorable environment for certain of our businesses and may affect the fair value of financial instruments that we issue or hold. Increases in credit spreads, as well as limitations on the availability of credit at rates we consider to be reasonable, could affect our ability to borrow under future potential facilities on a secured or unsecured basis, which may adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. In difficult global financial markets, we may be forced to fund our operations at a higher cost, or we may be unable to raise as much funding as we need to support our business activities. Our pension plans have not experienced a material impact on liquidity or counterparty exposure due to the volatility and uncertainty in the credit markets. With respect to plans outside of the United States, we expect to contribute $6.8 million in the aggregate during fiscal year 2023. During fiscal year 2023, we contributed $10.0 million to our defined benefit pension plan in the United States for the plan year 2022. During fiscal years 2022, 2021 and 2020, we contributed $6.6 million, $6.9 million and $7.5 million in the aggregate, respectively, to pension plans outside of the United States. During fiscal year 2021, we contributed $20.0 million to our defined benefit pension plan in the United States. We could potentially have to make additional funding payments in future periods for all pension plans. We expect to use existing cash and external sources to satisfy future contributions to our pension plans. We are conducting a number of environmental investigations and remedial actions at our current and former locations, and are subject to various claims, legal proceedings and investigations covering a wide range of matters that arise in the ordinary course of our business activities. Although we have established accruals for potential losses that we believe are probable and reasonably estimable, in our opinion, based on our review of the information available at this time, the total cost of resolving these contingencies at January 1, 2023 should not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K. However, each of these matters is subject to uncertainties, and it is possible that some of these matters may be resolved unfavorably to us. See “Business—Environmental Matters ” above and Note 16, Contingencies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of these matters and proceedings. 41 Effects of Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1, Nature of Operations and Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of recently issued accounting pronouncements. We did not adopt any new accounting pronouncements during the fiscal year 2022. We do not believe that any recently issued accounting pronouncements that have not yet been adopted will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to accounting for business combinations, long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangibles and employee compensation and benefits. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Business combinations. Business combinations are accounted for at fair value. Acquisition costs are expensed as incurred and recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses; restructuring costs associated with a business combination are expensed subsequent to the acquisition date; and changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and income tax uncertainties after the acquisition date affect income tax expense. Measurement period adjustments are made in the period in which the amounts are determined and the current period income effect of such adjustments will be calculated as if the adjustments had been completed as of the acquisition date. All changes that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments are also included in current period earnings. The accounting for business combinations requires estimates and judgment as to expectations for future cash flows of the acquired business, and the allocation of those cash flows to identifiable intangible assets, in determining the estimated fair value for assets acquired and liabilities as sumed. The fair values assigned to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including contingent consideration, are based on management’s estimates and assumptions, as well as other information compiled by management, including valuations that utilize customary valuation procedures and techniques. For intangible assets, we normally utilize the “ income method ” which incorporates the forecast of all the expected future net cash flows attributable to the subject intangible asset, adjusted to present value by applying an appropriate discount rate that reflects the risk factors associated with the cash flow streams. Depending on the asset valued, the key assumptions included one or more of the following: (1) future revenue growth rates, (2) future gross margin, (3) future selling, general and administrative expenses, (4) royalty rates, (5) customer attrition rates, and (6) discount rates. If the actual results differ from the estimates and judgments used in these estimates, the amounts recorded in the financial statements could result in a possible impairment of the intangible assets and goodwill, require acceleration of the amortization expense of finite-lived intangible assets, or the recognition of additional consideration which would be expensed. The fair value of contingent consideration is remeasured each period based on relevant information and changes to the fair value are included in the operating results for the period. Value of long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangibles. We carry a variety of long-lived assets on our consolidated balance sheets including property and equipment, operating lease right of use assets, investments, identifiable intangible assets, and goodwill. We periodically review the carrying value of all of these assets based, in part, upon current estimates of fair values and our projections of anticipated future cash flows. We undertake this review (i) on an annual basis for assets such as goodwill and non-amortizing intangible assets and (ii) on a periodic basis for other long-lived assets when facts and circumstances suggest that cash flows related to those assets may be diminished. Any impairment charge that we record reduces our earnings. For goodwill, the test consists of the comparison of the fair value to the carrying value of the reporting unit to determine if the carrying value exceeds the fair value. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss in an amount equal to that excess is recognized up to the amount of goodwill. We perform the annual impairment assessment on the later of January 1 or the first day of each fiscal year. This same impairment test will be performed at other times during the course of the year should an event occur which suggests that the recoverability of goodwill should be reconsidered. We completed the annual goodwill impairment test using a measurement date of January 3, 2022, and concluded that there was no goodwill impairment. At January 3, 2022, the fair value exceeded the carrying value by more than 20.0% for each reporting unit. The range of the long-term terminal growth rates for the reporting units was 2.0% to 5.0% for the fiscal year 2022 impairment analysis. The range for the discount rates for the reporting units was 7.0% to 11.5%. Keeping all other variables 42 constant, a 10.0% change in any one of these input assumptions for the vari ous reporting units would still allow us to conclude that there was no impairment of goodwill. In connection with the fiscal year 2023 impairment test performed as of January 2, 2023, the Tulip and EUROIMMUN reporting units, which had goodwill balances of $74.4 million and $572.0 million, respectively, at January 1, 2023, had fair values that exceeded their carrying values by less than 20%. These reporting units are at increased risk of an impairment charge given the higher discount rates, competition and, to some extent, the recent impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. Despite the increased impairment risk associated with these reporting units, we do not believe there will be a significant change in the key estimates or assumptions driving the fair value of these reporting units that would lead to a material impairment charge. We consistently emplo y the income approach to estimate the current fair value when testing for impairment of goodwill. A number of significant assumptions and estimates are involved in the application of the income approach to forecast operating cash flows, including markets and market share, sales volumes and prices, costs to produce, tax rates, capital spending, discount rates and working capital changes. Cash flow forecasts are based on approved business unit operating plans for the early years’ cash flows and historical relationships in later years. The income approach is sensitive to changes in long-term terminal growth rates and the discount rates. The long-term terminal growth rates are consistent with our historical long-term terminal growth rates, as the current economic trends are not expected to affect our long-term terminal growth rates. We corroborate the income approach with a market approach. While we believe that our estimates of current value are reasonable, if actual results differ from the estimates and judgments used including such items as future cash flows and the volatility inherent in markets which we serve, impairment charges against the carrying value of those assets could be required in the future. Employee compensation and benefits. We sponsor both funded and unfunded U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefits. Retirement and postretirement benefit plans are a significant cost of doing business, and represent obligations that will be ultimately settled far in the future, and therefore are subject to estimation. Retirement and postretirement benefit plan expenses are allocated to cost of revenue, research and development, and selling, general and administrative expenses, in our consolidated statements of operations. We immediately recognize actuarial gains and losses in operating results in the year in which the gains and losses occur. Actuarial gains and losses are measured annually as of the calendar month-end that is closest to our fiscal year end and accordingly will be recorded in the fourth quarter, unless we are required to perform an interim remeasurement. We recognized gains of $28.3 million and $30.9 million in fiscal years 2022 and 2021, respectively, for our retirement and postretirement benefit plans, which include the gains from the immediate recognition of the actuarial gains and losses for the benefit plans, which were recorded in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. The loss or income related to the immediate recognition of the actuarial gains and losses on benefit plans were pre-tax gains of $28.9 million and $24.7 million fiscal years 2022 and 2021, respectively. We expect an expense of approximately $13.3 million in fiscal year 2023 for our retirement and postretirement benefit plans, excluding any actuarial gains and losses. It is difficult to reliably calculate and predict the amount of any actuarial gains and losses in fiscal year 2023 as these gains and losses are primarily driven by events and circumstances beyond our control, including changes in interest rates, the performance of the financial markets and mortality assumptions. To the extent the discount rates decrease or the value of our pension and postretirement investments decrease, actuarial losses will impact our operating results. Conversely, to the extent the discount rates increase or the value of our pension and postretirement investments increase more than expected, actuarial gains will favorably impact our operating results. Pension accounting is intended to reflect the recognition of future benefit costs over the employee’s approximate service period based on the terms of the plans and the investment and funding decisions made. We are required to make assumptions regarding such variables as the expected long-term rate of return on assets, the discount rate applied and mortality assumptions, to determine service cost and interest cost, in order to arrive at expected pension income or expense for the year. We use discount rates for each individual plan based upon the expected cash flows using the applicable spot rates derived from a yield curve over the projected cash flow period. If any of our assumptions were to change as of January 1, 2023, our pension plan expenses would also change as follows: 43