********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The following important factors affect our business and operations generally or affect multiple segments of our business and operations: Risks Related to our Business Operations and Industry If the markets into which we sell our products decline or do not grow as anticipated due to a decline in general economic conditions, or there are uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial funding proposals, or there are unfavorable changes in government regulations, we may see an adverse effect on the results of our business operations. Our customers include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, laboratories, academic and research institutions, public health authorities, private healthcare organizations, doctors and government agencies. Our quarterly revenue and results of operations are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter. In addition, our revenues and earnings forecasts for future quarters are often based on the expected trends in our markets. However, the markets we serve do not always experience the trends that we may expect. Negative fluctuations in our customers’ markets, the inability of our customers to secure credit or funding, restrictions in capital expenditures, general economic conditions, cuts in government funding or unfavorable changes in government regulations would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and services. In addition, government funding is subject to economic conditions and the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. Our revenues may be adversely affected if our customers delay or reduce purchases as a result of uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial funding proposals. Such declines could harm our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and trading price of our common stock, and could limit our ability to sustain profitability. Our growth and profitability is subject to global economic and political conditions, and operational disruptions at our facilities. Our business is affected by global economic and political conditions as well as the state of the financial markets, particularly as the United States and other countries balance concerns around debt, inflation, growth and budget allocations in their policy initiatives. There can be no assurance that global economic conditions and financial markets will not worsen and that we will not experience any adverse effects that may be material to our consolidated cash flows, results of operations, financial position or our ability to access capital, such as the adverse effects resulting from a prolonged shutdown in government operations both in the United States and internationally. Our business is also affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession, financial liquidity, interest rates and currency volatility or devaluation. Environmental events and political changes, including war or other conflicts, such as the current conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East, some of which may be disruptive, could interfere with our supply chain, our customers and all of our activities in a particular location. While we take precautions to prevent production or service interruptions at our global facilities, a major earthquake, fire, flood, power loss or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or delay of any of our critical business operations could result in our incurring significant liability to customers or other third parties, cause significant reputational damage or have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. 13 Certain of these risks can be hedged to a limited degree using financial instruments, or other measures, and some of these risks are insurable, but any such mitigation efforts are costly and may not always be fully successful. Our ability to engage in such mitigation efforts has decreased or become even more costly as a result of recent market developments. If we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, we may lose market share and be unable to achieve revenue growth targets. We sell many of our products in industries characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product and service introductions, and evolving customer needs and industry standards. Many of the businesses competing with us in these industries have significant financial and other resources to invest in new technologies, substantial intellectual property portfolios, substantial experience in new product development, regulatory expertise, manufacturing capabilities, and established distribution channels to deliver products to customers. Our products could become technologically obsolete over time, or we may invest in technology that does not lead to revenue growth or continue to sell products for which the demand from our customers is declining, in which case we may lose market share or not achieve our revenue growth targets. The success of our new product offerings will depend upon several factors, including our ability to: • accurately anticipate customer needs, • innovate and develop new reliable technologies and applications, • receive regulatory approvals in a timely manner, • successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, • price our products competitively, and manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and on time, and • differentiate our offerings from our competitors’ offerings. Many of our products are used by our customers to develop, test and manufacture their products. We must anticipate industry trends and consistently develop new products to meet our customers’ expectations. In developing new products, we may be required to make significant investments before we can determine the commercial viability of the new product. If we fail to accurately foresee our customers’ needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant revenue. We may also suffer a loss in market share and potential revenue if we are unable to commercialize our technology in a timely and efficient manner. In addition, some of our licensed technology is subject to contractual restrictions, which may limit our ability to develop or commercialize products for some applications. We may not be able to successfully execute acquisitions or divestitures, license technologies, integrate acquired businesses or licensed technologies into our existing businesses, maintain licensed technologies, or make acquired businesses or licensed technologies profitable. We have in the past supplemented, and may in the future supplement, our internal growth by acquiring businesses and licensing technologies that complement or augment our existing product lines. However, we may be unable to identify or complete promising acquisitions or license transactions for many reasons, such as: • competition among buyers and licensees, • the high valuations of businesses and technologies, • the need for regulatory and other approval, and • our inability to raise capital to fund these acquisitions. Some of the businesses we acquire may be unprofitable or marginally profitable, or may increase the variability of our revenue recognition. If, for example, we are unable to successfully commercialize products and services related to significant in-process research and development that we have capitalized, we may have to impair the value of such assets. Accordingly, the earnings or losses of acquired businesses may dilute our earnings. For these acquired businesses to achieve acceptable levels of profitability, we would have to improve their management, operations, products and market penetration. We may not be successful in this regard and may encounter other difficulties in integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations, such as incompatible management, information or other systems, cultural differences, loss of key personnel, unforeseen regulatory requirements, previously undisclosed liabilities or difficulties in predicting financial results. We may lose the right to utilize licensed technologies which could limit our ability to offer products incorporating such technologies. To finance our acquisitions, we may have to raise additional funds, either through public or private financings. We may be unable to obtain such funds or may be able to do so only on terms unacceptable to us. We may also incur expenses related to completing 14 acquisitions or licensing technologies, or in evaluating potential acquisitions or technologies, which may adversely impact our profitability. If we do not compete effectively, our business will be harmed. We encounter aggressive competition from numerous competitors in many areas of our business. We may not be able to compete effectively with all of these competitors. To remain competitive, we must develop new products and periodically enhance our existing products. We anticipate that we may also have to adjust the prices of many of our products to stay competitive. In addition, new competitors, technologies or market trends may emerge to threaten or reduce the value of entire product lines. Our quarterly operating results could be subject to significant fluctuation, and we may not be able to adjust our operations to effectively address changes we do not anticipate, which could increase the volatility of our stock price and potentially cause losses to our shareholders. Given the nature of the markets in which we participate, we cannot reliably predict future revenue and profitability. Changes in competitive, market and economic conditions may require us to adjust our operations, and we may not be able to make those adjustments or make them quickly enough to adapt to changing conditions. A high proportion of our costs are fixed in the short term, due in part to our research and development and manufacturing costs. As a result, small declines in sales could disproportionately affect our operating results in a quarter. Factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include: • demand for and market acceptance of our products, • competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices, • changes in the level of economic activity in regions in which we do business, including as a result of global health crises or pandemics, • changes in general economic conditions or government funding, • settlements of income tax audits, • expenses incurred in connection with claims related to environmental conditions at locations where we conduct or formerly conducted operations, • contract termination and litigation costs, • differing tax laws and changes in those laws (including the enactment by countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Pillar Two, which would impose a minimum corporate income tax rate of least 15%), or changes in the countries in which we are subject to taxation, • changes in our effective tax rate, • changes in industries, such as pharmaceutical and biomedical, • changes in the portions of our revenue represented by our various products and customers, • our ability to introduce new products, • our competitors’ announcement or introduction of new products, services or technological innovations, • costs of raw materials, labor, energy, supplies, transportation or other indirect costs, • changes in healthcare or other reimbursement rates paid by government agencies and other third parties for certain of our products and services, • our ability to realize the benefit of ongoing productivity initiatives, • changes in the volume or timing of product orders, • fluctuation in the expense related to the mark-to-market adjustment on postretirement benefit plans, • changes in our assumptions underlying future funding of pension obligations, • changes in assumptions used to determine contingent consideration in acquisitions, and • changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 15 A significant disruption in third-party package delivery and import/export services, or significant increases in prices for those services, could interfere with our ability to ship products, increase our costs and lower our profitability. We ship a significant portion of our products to our customers through independent package delivery and import/export companies, including UPS and Federal Express in the United States; TNT, UPS and DHL in Europe; and UPS in Asia. We also ship our products through other carriers, including commercial airlines, freight carriers, national trucking firms, overnight carrier services and the United States Postal Service. If one or more of the package delivery or import/export providers experiences a significant disruption in services or institutes a significant price increase, we may have to seek alternative providers and the delivery of our products could be prevented or delayed. Such events could cause us to incur increased shipping costs that could not be passed on to our customers, negatively impacting our profitability and our relationships with certain of our customers. Disruptions in the supply of raw materials, certain key components and other goods from our limited or single source suppliers could have an adverse effect on the results of our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers. The production of our products requires a wide variety of raw materials, key components and other goods that are generally available from alternate sources of supply. However, certain critical raw materials, key components and other goods required for the production and sale of some of our principal products are available from limited or single sources of supply. We generally have multi-year contracts with no minimum purchase requirements with these suppliers, but those contracts may not fully protect us from a failure by certain suppliers to supply critical materials or from the delays inherent in being required to change suppliers and, in some cases, validate new raw materials. Such raw materials, key components and other goods can usually be obtained from alternative sources with the potential for an increase in price, decline in quality or delay in delivery. A prolonged inability to obtain certain raw materials, key components or other goods is possible and could have an adverse effect on our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers. In addition, global health crises or pandemics, wars, conflicts, or other changes in a country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, could have a significant adverse effect on our supply chain. We are subject to the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission requiring disclosure as to whether certain materials known as conflict minerals (tantalum, tin, gold, tungsten and their derivatives) that may be contained in our products are mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries. As a result of these rules, we may incur additional costs in complying with the disclosure requirements and in satisfying those customers who require that the components used in our products be certified as conflict-free, and the potential lack of availability of these materials at competitive prices could increase our production costs. If we do not retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy will be limited. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers and scientists, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. The competition for these employees is intense. The loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, there could be a material adverse effect on us should the turnover rates for key personnel increase significantly or if we are unable to continue to attract qualified personnel. We do not maintain any key person life insurance policies on any of our officers or employees. Our success also depends on our ability to execute leadership succession plans. The inability to successfully transition key management roles could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. If we experience a significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems or those of our customers, suppliers or other third parties, or cybercrime, resulting in inappropriate access to or inadvertent transfer of information or assets or result in a ransom demand from a third party, or if we fail to implement new systems, software and technologies successfully, our business could be adversely affected. We rely on several centralized information technology systems throughout our company to develop, manufacture and provide products and services, keep financial records, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. Our and our third-party service providers' information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophes or other unforeseen events. The risk of a security breach or disruption through cyber-attacks has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks from around the world have increased. For example, many companies have experienced an increase in phishing and social engineering attacks from third parties. If we were to experience a prolonged system disruption in the information technology systems that involve our interactions with customers, suppliers or other third parties, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant 16 incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, security breaches of our information technology systems or cybercrime, resulting in inappropriate access to or inadvertent transfer of information or assets, could result in losses or misappropriation of assets, ransom demands by third parties, or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers, which could result in our suffering significant financial or reputational damage. Our results of operations will be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our intangible assets. As of December 31, 2023, our total assets included $9.6 billion of net intangible assets. Net intangible assets consist principally of goodwill associated with acquisitions and costs associated with securing patent rights, trademark rights, customer relationships, core technology and technology licenses and in-process research and development, net of accumulated amortization. We test goodwill at least annually for potential impairment by comparing the carrying value to the fair market value of the reporting unit to which they are assigned. All of our amortizing intangible assets are also evaluated for impairment should events occur that call into question the value of the intangible assets. Adverse changes in our business, adverse changes in the assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units, or the failure to grow our Life Sciences and Diagnostics segments may result in impairment of our intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Risks Related to our Intellectual Property We may not be successful in adequately protecting our intellectual property. Patent and trade secret protection is important to us because developing new products, processes and technologies gives us a competitive advantage, although it is time-consuming and expensive. We own many United States and foreign patents and intend to apply for additional patents. Patent applications we file, however, may not result in issued patents or, if they do, the claims allowed in the patents may be narrower than what is needed to protect fully our products, processes and technologies. The expiration of our previously issued patents may cause us to lose a competitive advantage in certain of the products and services we provide. Similarly, applications to register our trademarks may not be granted in all countries in which they are filed. For our intellectual property that is protected by keeping it secret, such as trade secrets and know-how, we may not use adequate measures to protect this intellectual property. Third parties have in the past and may in the future also challenge the validity of our issued patents, may circumvent or “design around” our patents and patent applications, or claim that our products, processes or technologies infringe their patents. In addition, third parties may assert that our product names infringe their trademarks. We may incur significant expense in legal proceedings to protect our intellectual property against infringement by third parties or to defend against claims of infringement by third parties. Claims by third parties in pending or future lawsuits could result in awards of substantial damages against us or court orders that could effectively prevent us from manufacturing, using, importing or selling our products in the United States or other countries. If we are unable to renew our licenses or otherwise lose our licensed rights, we may have to stop selling products or we may lose competitive advantage. We may not be able to renew or otherwise lose our right to utilize our existing licenses, or licenses we may obtain in the future, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we lose the rights to a patented or other proprietary technology, we may need to stop selling products incorporating that technology and possibly other products, redesign our products or lose a competitive advantage. Potential competitors could in-license technologies that we fail to license and potentially erode our market share. Our licenses typically subject us to various economic and commercialization obligations. If we fail to comply with these obligations, we could lose important rights under a license, such as the right to exclusivity in a market, or incur losses for failing to comply with our contractual obligations. In some cases, we could lose all rights under the license. In addition, rights granted under the license could be lost for reasons out of our control. For example, the licensor could lose patent protection for a number of reasons, including invalidity of the licensed patent, or a third-party could obtain a patent that curtails our freedom to operate under one or more licenses. 17 Risks Related to Legal, Government and Regulatory Matters The manufacture and sale of products and services may expose us to product and other liability claims for which we could have substantial liability. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product and other liability claims if our products, services or product candidates are alleged or found to have caused injury, damage or loss. We may be unable to obtain insurance with adequate levels of coverage for potential liability on acceptable terms or claims of this nature may be excluded from coverage under the terms of any insurance policy that we obtain. If we are unable to obtain such insurance or the amounts of any claims successfully brought against us substantially exceed our coverage, then our business could be adversely impacted. If we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with the regulations of the United States Food and Drug Administration and other governmental agencies in the United States and abroad, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, and we could be subject to civil, criminal or monetary penalties. Our operations are subject to regulation by different state and federal government agencies in the United States and other countries, as well as to the standards established by international standards bodies. If we fail to comply with those regulations or standards, we could be subject to fines, penalties, criminal prosecution or other sanctions. Some of our products are subject to regulation by the United States Food and Drug Administration and similar foreign and domestic agencies. These regulations govern a wide variety of product activities, from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. If we fail to comply with those regulations or standards, we may have to recall products, cease their manufacture and distribution, and may be subject to fines or criminal prosecution. We are also subject to a variety of laws, regulations and standards that govern, among other things, the importation and exportation of products, the handling, transportation and manufacture of toxic or hazardous substances, the collection, storage, transfer, use, disclosure, retention and other processing of personal data, and our business practices in the United States and abroad such as anti-bribery, anti-corruption and competition laws. This requires that we devote substantial resources to maintaining our compliance with those laws, regulations and standards. A failure to do so could result in the imposition of civil, criminal or monetary penalties having a material adverse effect on our operations. We are subject to stringent data privacy and information security laws and regulations and changes in such laws or regulations, or our failure to comply with such requirements, could subject us to significant fines and penalties, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to data privacy and information security laws and regulations that apply to the collection, transmission, storage and use of personally identifying information, which among other things, impose certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of personal information, including comprehensive regulatory systems in the United States, European Union and the United Kingdom. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve in jurisdictions worldwide, and there has been an increasing focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect our business. Failure to comply with any of these laws or regulations could result in enforcement actions against us, including fines, claims for damages by affected individuals, damage to our reputation and loss of goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. Changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. We compete in markets in which we or our customers must comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulations, such as environmental, health and safety, data privacy and food and drug regulations. We develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by these regulations. Any significant change in these regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our costs of producing these products. The healthcare industry is highly regulated and if we fail to comply with its extensive system of laws and regulations, we could suffer fines and penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations which could have a significant adverse effect on the results of our business operations. The healthcare industry, including the genetic screening market, is subject to extensive and frequently changing international and United States federal, state and local laws and regulations. In addition, legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse, patient privacy violations and misconduct involving government insurance programs provide federal enforcement personnel with substantial powers and remedies to pursue suspected violations. We believe that our business will continue to be subject to increasing regulation as the federal government continues to strengthen its position on healthcare matters, the scope and effect of which we cannot predict. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal damages, fines and penalties, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare 18 programs, and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur liabilities from third-party claims, all of which could have a significant adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to our Foreign Operations Economic, political and other risks associated with foreign operations could adversely affect our international sales and profitability. Because we sell our products worldwide, our businesses are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Our sales originating outside the United States represented the majority of our total revenue in fiscal year 2023. We anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total revenue. In addition, many of our manufacturing facilities, employees and suppliers are located outside the United States. Accordingly, our future results of operations could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: • changes in actual, or from projected, foreign currency exchange rates, • global health crises of unknown duration, • wars, conflicts, or other changes in a country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, particularly in developing or emerging markets, • longer payment cycles of foreign customers and timing of collections in foreign jurisdictions, • trade protection measures including embargoes, sanctions and tariffs, such as the sanctions and other restrictions implemented by the United States and other governments on the Russian Federation and related parties in connection with the conflict in Ukraine, • import or export licensing requirements and the associated potential for delays or restrictions in the shipment of our products or the receipt of products from our suppliers, • policies in foreign countries benefiting domestic manufacturers or other policies detrimental to companies headquartered in the United States, • differing tax laws and changes in those laws, or changes in the countries in which we are subject to tax, • adverse income tax audit settlements or loss of previously negotiated tax incentives, • differing business practices associated with foreign operations, • difficulty in transferring cash between international operations and the United States, • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, • differing labor laws and changes in those laws, • differing protection of intellectual property and changes in that protection, • expanded enforcement of laws related to data protection and personal privacy, • increasing global enforcement of anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, and • differing regulatory requirements and changes in those requirements. Risks Related to our Debt We have a substantial amount of outstanding debt, which could impact our ability to obtain future financing and limit our ability to make other expenditures in the conduct of our business. We have a substantial amount of debt and other financial obligations. Our debt level and related debt service obligations could have negative consequences, including: • requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes, such as acquisitions and stock repurchases; • reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions; • exposing us to interest rate risk as a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates; 19 • increasing our foreign currency risk as a portion of our debt obligations are in denominations other than the U.S. dollar; and • increasing the chances of a downgrade of our debt ratings due to the amount or intended purpose of our debt obligations. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future to meet future financing needs. If we add new debt, the risks described above could increase. In addition, the market for both public and private debt offerings has experienced liquidity concerns and increased volatility, which could ultimately increase our borrowing costs and limit our ability to obtain future financing. Restrictions in our senior unsecured revolving credit facility and other debt instruments may limit our activities. Our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, senior unsecured notes due in 2024 (“2024 Notes”), senior unsecured notes due in 2026 (“2026 Notes”), senior unsecured notes due in 2028 (“2028 Notes”), senior unsecured notes due in 2029 (“2029 Notes”), senior unsecured notes due in 2031 (“March 2031 Notes”),  senior unsecured notes due in 2031 (“September 2031 Notes”) and senior unsecured notes due in 2051 (“2051 Notes”) include restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit our company. These include restrictions on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: • pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock, • sell assets, • incur obligations that restrict our subsidiaries’ ability to make dividend or other payments to us, • guarantee or secure indebtedness, • enter into transactions with affiliates, and • consolidate, merge or transfer all, or substantially all, of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. We are also required to meet specified financial ratios under the terms of certain of our existing debt instruments. Our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, changes in technology and changes in the level of competition. In addition, if we are unable to maintain our investment grade credit rating, our borrowing costs would increase and we would be subject to different and potentially more restrictive financial covenants under some of our existing debt instruments. Any future indebtedness that we incur may include similar or more restrictive covenants. Our failure to comply with any of the restrictions in our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, the 2024 Notes, the 2026 Notes, the 2028 Notes, the 2029 Notes, the March 2031 Notes, the September 2031 Notes, the 2051 Notes or any future indebtedness may result in an event of default under those debt instruments, which could permit acceleration of the debt under those debt instruments, and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date under certain circumstances. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock Our share price will fluctuate. Over the last several years, stock markets in general and our common stock in particular have experienced significant price and volume volatility. Both the market price and the daily trading volume of our common stock may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market conditions but also to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations and business prospects. In addition to the risk factors discussed above, the price and volume volatility of our common stock may be affected by: • operating results that vary from our financial guidance or the expectations of securities analysts and investors, • the financial performance of the major end markets that we target, • the operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us, • announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors, • changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, inflation, freight costs, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets, and 20 • changes to economic conditions arising from global health crises and pandemics, climate change, or from wars or conflicts. Dividends on our common stock could be reduced or eliminated in the future. On October 26, 2023, we announced that our Board of Directors (our “Board”) had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2023 that was paid in February 2024. On January 25, 2024, we announced that our Board had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share for the first quarter of fiscal year 2024 that will be payable in May 2024. In the future, our Board may determine to reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in order to fund investments for growth, repurchase shares or conserve capital resources.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

This annual report on Form 10-K, including the following management’s discussion and analysis, contains forward-looking information that you should read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements that we have included elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. For this purpose, any statements contained in this report that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Words such as “believes,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “will” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from the plans, intentions or expectations we disclose in the forward-looking statements we make. We have included important factors above under the heading “Risk Factors” in Item 1A above that we believe could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements we make. We are not obligated to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Accounting Period Our fiscal year ends on the Sunday nearest December 31. We report fiscal years under a 52/53-week format and as a result, certain fiscal years will contain 53 weeks. Each of the fiscal years ended December 31, 2023 (“fiscal year 2023”), January 1, 2023 (“fiscal year 2022”) and January 2, 2022 (“fiscal year 2021”) included 52 weeks. The fiscal year ending December 29, 2024 (“fiscal year 2024”) will include 52 weeks. Overview of Fiscal Year 2023 During fiscal year 2023, we delivered differentiated performance despite market headwinds, demonstrating the strength of our product portfolio, continued innovation, and investments in our people. Our overall revenue in fiscal year 2023 decreased by $561.3 million, or 17%, as compared to fiscal year 2022, reflecting a decrease of $560.7 million, or 28%, in Diagnostics segment revenue and a decrease of $0.6 million, or less than 1%, in Life Sciences segment revenue. The decrease in Diagnostics segment revenue was primarily driven by decreased demand for COVID-19 product offerings, partially offset by growth in the core immunodiagnostics business. The decrease in Life Sciences segment revenue was driven by a decrease in instruments revenue due to pharmaceutical and biotechnology market headwinds and a decrease in software revenue from the timing of contract renewals, partially offset by an increase in reagents revenue. Our consolidated gross margins decreased 411 basis points in fiscal year 2023, as compared to fiscal year 2022, primarily due to lower revenue from COVID-19 product offerings, and an unfavorable shift in product mix, partially offset by pricing actions. Our consolidated operating margin decreased 1,150 basis points in fiscal year 2023, as compared to fiscal year 2022, also due to lower revenue from COVID-19 product offerings and unfavorable shift in product mix, partially offset by operating expense reductions. Overall, we believe that our range of product offerings, leading market positions, global scale and financial strength provides us with a foundation for continued long-term growth, margin expansion and robust cash flow generation. Consolidated Results of Operations Fiscal Year 2023 Compared to Fiscal Year 2022 Revenue Revenue for fiscal year 2023 was $2,750.6 million, as compared to $3,311.8 million for fiscal year 2022, a decrease of $561.3 million, or 17%. The analysis in the remainder of this paragraph compares segment revenue for fiscal year 2023 as compared to fiscal year 2022 and includes the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Diagnostics segment revenue for fiscal year 2023 was $1,459.1 million, as compared to $2,019.7 million for fiscal year 2022, a decrease of $560.7 million, or 28%, due to a decrease of $380.3 million in immunodiagnostics revenue, a decrease of $165.2 million in applied genomics revenue and a decrease of $15.3 million in reproductive health revenue. Life Sciences segment revenue was $1,292.3 million for fiscal year 2023, as compared to $1,292.9 million for fiscal year 2022, a decrease of $0.6 million, or less than 1%, driven by a decrease of $24.3 million in instruments revenue and a decrease of $17.7 million in software revenue, partially offset by an increase of $41.4 million in reagents revenue. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue for fiscal year 2023 was $1,210.9 million, as compared to $1,322.0 million for fiscal year 2022, a decrease of approximately $111.1 million, or 8%. As a percentage of revenue, cost of revenue increased to 44% in fiscal year 27 2023 from 40% in fiscal year 2022, resulting in a decrease in gross margin of approximately 411 basis points to 56% in fiscal year 2023 from 60% in fiscal year 2022 due to lower COVID-19 revenue and an unfavorable shift in product mix, partially offset by pricing actions. The amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to record the inventory from certain acquisitions added an incremental expense of $45.3 million for fiscal year 2022. Stock compensation expense related to awards given to BioLegend employees post-acquisition added an incremental expense of $2.8 million for fiscal year 2023, as compared to $5.6 million for fiscal year 2022. The above decreases were partially offset by an increase in a mortization of intangible assets which was $147.6 million for fiscal year 2023, as compared to $141.6 million for fiscal year 2022. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal year 2023 were $1,022.6 million, as compared to $1,025.5 million for fiscal year 2022, a decrease of approximately $3.0 million, or 0.3%. As a percentage of revenue, selling, general and administrative expenses increased to 37% in fiscal year 2023 from 31% in fiscal year 2022. Amortization of intangible assets decreased and was $217.5 million for fiscal year 2023, as compared to $229.1 million for fiscal year 2022. Purchase accounting adjustments added an incremental expense of $4.3 million for fiscal year 2023, which primarily consisted of a change in contingent consideration, as compared to decreasing expenses by $1.2 million for fiscal year 2022. Legal costs for significant litigation matters and settlements, net of reversals, were minimal for fiscal year 2023, as compared to decreasing expenses by $0.6 million for fiscal year 2022. Acquisition and divestiture-related expenses, which primarily consisted of rebranding, legal and integration costs and stock compensation expense related to the awards given to BioLegend employees post-acquisition, added an incremental expense of $62.0 million for fiscal year 2023, as compared to $28.9 million for fiscal year 2022. Costs for significant environmental matters also added an incremental expense of $2.5 million for fiscal year 2023. Restructuring and other, net, increased and was $26.6 million for fiscal year 2023, as compared to $13.6 million for fiscal year 2022. Excluding the factors above, the net decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses was the result of cost containment and productivity initiatives. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses for fiscal year 2023 were $216.6 million, as compared to $221.6 million for fiscal year 2022, a decrease of $5.0 million, or 2%. As a percentage of revenue, research and development expenses increased to 8% in fiscal year 2023 from 7% in fiscal year 2022. The decrease in research and development expenses was primarily driven by a cost containment and productivity initiatives, as well as a decrease in stock compensation expense related to awards given to BioLegend employees post-acquisition, which was an expense of $4.3 million in fiscal year 2023, as compared to $5.4 million for fiscal year 2022. The decreased expenses were partially offset by our investments in new product development. Interest and Other Expense, Net Interest and other expense, net, consisted of the following for the fiscal years ended: The increase of $26.7 million in interest and other expense, net, in fiscal year 2023 as compared to fiscal year 2022 was primarily due to an increase in other components of net periodic pension cost of $52.2 million, an increase in foreign exchange losses and other expense, net of $30.1 million and an increase in the change in fair value of financial securities of $18.2 million. Other components of net periodic pension cost increased due to the decreases in the applicable discount rates. Foreign exchange losses and other expense, net, increased primarily due to a foreign exchange loss of $24.0 million for the fiscal year 2023 related to the cash proceeds from the sale of the Business that were held offshore. These increases in interest and other expense, net, were partially offset by an increase in interest income of $68.5 million and a decrease of $5.1 million in interest expense. Interest income increased due to an increase in investments and higher interest rates. Interest expense decreased due to $3.7 million of debt extinguishment income for the fiscal year 2023, as compared to $2.9 million of debt extinguishment income for the fiscal year 2022, as well as a result of an overall decrease in debt. A more complete discussion of our liquidity is set forth below under the heading “Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 28 Provision for Income Taxes The effective tax rates on continuing operations were 1.9% and 21.3% for fiscal years 2023 and 2022, respectively. The lower than expected 2023 tax rate will not repeat in 2024. A reconciliation of income tax expense at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate to the recorded tax provision is as follows for the fiscal years ended: Certain countries in which we have operations have adopted legislation or are expected to adopt legislation influenced by the OECD Pillar Two rules, which imposes a minimum tax rate of 15% among other requirements. We will continue to evaluate the potential consequences of Pillar Two legislation on our effective tax rate as the legislation and related interpretations of OECD guidance continues to evolve. Fiscal Year 2022 Compared to Fiscal Year 2021 For a discussion of our results of operations for fiscal year 2022 as compared to fiscal year 2021, see Item 7, Management ’ s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2023 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 1, 2023. Reporting Segment Results of Continu ing Operations Diagnostics Fiscal Year 2023 Compared to Fiscal Year 2022 Revenue for fiscal year 2023 was $1,459.1 million, as compared to $2,019.7 million for fiscal year 2022, a decrease of $560.7 million, or 28%, which includes an approximate 1% decrease in revenue attributable to favorable changes in foreign exchange rates. T he decrease in our Diagnostics segment revenue during fiscal year 2023 was due to a decrease of $380.3 million in immunodiagnostics revenue, a decrease of $165.2 million in applied genomics revenue and a decrease of $15.3 million in reproductive health revenue. Segment operating income from continuing operations for fiscal year 2023 was $320.9 million, as compared to $782.0 million for fiscal year 2022, a decrease of $461.1 million, or 59%. Segment operating margin decreased 1,670 basis points in fiscal year 2023, as compared to fiscal year 2022, primarily due to lower COVID-19 product sales volume and an unfavorable shift in product mix, partially offset by cost controls . 29 Fiscal Year 2022 Compared to Fiscal Year 2021 For a discussion of our results of operations for fiscal year 2022 as compared to fiscal year 2021, see Item 7, Management ’ s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2023 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 1, 2023. Life Sciences Fiscal Year 2023 Compared to Fiscal Year 2022 Revenue for fiscal year 2023 was $1,292.3 million, as compared to $1,292.9 million for fiscal year 2022, a decrease of $0.6 million, or less than 1% . The decrease in our Life Sciences segment revenue was driven by a decrease of $24.3 million in instruments revenue and a decrease of $17.7 million in software revenue, partially offset by an increase of $41.4 million in reagents revenue. Segment operating income for fiscal year 2023 was $489.3 million, as compared to $503.2 million for fiscal year 2022, a decrease of $13.9 million, or 3%. Segment operating margin decreased 100 basis points in fiscal year 2023, as compared to fiscal year 2022, primarily due to an unfavorable shift in product mix, partially offset by pricing actions. Fiscal Year 2022 Compared to Fiscal Year 2021 For a discussion of our results of operations for fiscal year 2022 as compared to fiscal year 2021, see Item 7, Management ’ s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2023 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 1, 2023. 30 Discontinued Operations On March 13, 2023, we completed the previously announced sale (the “Closing”) of certain assets and the equity interests of certain entities constituting our Applied, Food and Enterprise Services businesses (the “Business”) to PerkinElmer Topco, L.P. (formerly known as Polaris Purchaser, L.P.) (the “Purchaser”), a Delaware limited partnership owned by funds managed by affiliates of New Mountain Capital L.L.C. (the “Sponsor”), for an aggregate purchase price of up to $2.45 billion . We received approximately $2.13 billion in cash proceeds, before transaction costs and subject to post-closing adjustments. We are entitled to an additional $75.0 million in proceeds as consideration for our ceasing the use of the PerkinElmer brand and related trademarks and transferring them to the Purchaser. This consideration is expected to be received in installments through the first half of 2025. The discounted value of the $75.0 million was measured as $65.2 million and was included in the proceeds. In addition, we are entitled to additional consideration of up to $150.0 million that is contingent on the exit valuation the Sponsor and its affiliated funds receive on a sale or other capital events related to the Business. The fair value of this element of consideration was determined to be $15.9 million and was included in the proceeds at Closing. We also recorded a receivable of approximately $160.2 million as of December 31, 2023 for post-closing adjustments that are expected to be settled with the Purchaser during fiscal year 2024. The final amount of the receivable related to the post-closing adjustments is subject to change. The Business is reported for all pe riods as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements. The following table summarizes the results of discontinued operations which are presented as income from discontinued operations in our consolidated statements of operations: The results of discontinued operations during fiscal year 2023 include the results of the Business through March 13, 2023. During fiscal year 2023, we recognized an increase in provision for income taxes of $242.8 million, primarily related to the taxes on the gain on sale of the Business. During fiscal year 2023, we recognized divestiture-related costs in gain on sale of $37.1 million. During fiscal year 2023, we recognized $36.0 million of divestiture-related costs in selling, general and administrative expenses in discontinued operations, as compared to $69.4 million during fiscal year 2022. For a discussion of our discontinued operations for fiscal year 2022 as compared to fiscal year 2021, see Item 7, Management ’ s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2023 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 1, 2023. 31 Liquidity and Capital Resources We require cash to pay our operating expenses, make capital expenditures, make strategic acquisitions, service our debt and other long-term liabilities, repurchase shares of our common stock and pay dividends on our common stock. Our principal sources of funds are cash flows from our operations, borrowing capacity available under our senior unsecured credit facility and access to the debt markets. We anticipate that our internal operations will generate sufficient cash to fund our operating expenses, capital expenditures, smaller acquisitions, interest payments on our debt and dividends on our common stock. However, we expect to use external sources to satisfy the balance of our debt when due, any larger acquisitions and other long-term liabilities, such as contributions to our postretirement benefit plans. The sale of the Business generated approximately $2.13 billion in cash proceeds. We have used and expect to continue to use these proceeds for a combination of satisfying upcoming debt maturities, opportunistic share repurchases and continued strategic and value creating acquisitions. We and our subsidiaries and affiliates may from time to time, in our sole discretion, purchase, repay, redeem or retire any of our outstanding debt securities (including any publicly issued debt securities), in privately negotiated or open market transactions, by tender offer or otherwise, or extend or refinance any of our outstanding indebtedness. Additionally, we purchased U.S. treasury securities whose proceeds upon maturity are intended to be utilized to repay outstanding debt securities, including our 0.850% senior unsecured notes due in September 2024 (the “2024 Notes”), which had $711.5 million in outstanding principal as of December 31, 2023. Principal factors that could affect the availability of our internally generated funds include: • changes in sales due to weakness in markets in which we sell our products and services, and • changes in our working capital requirements. Principal factors that could affect our ability to obtain cash from external sources include: • financial covenants contained in the financial instruments controlling our borrowings that limit our total borrowing capacity, • increases in interest rates applicable to our outstanding variable rate debt, • a ratings downgrade that could limit the amount we can borrow under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility and our overall access to the corporate debt market, • increases in interest rates or credit spreads, as well as limitations on the availability of credit, that affect our ability to borrow under future potential facilities on a secured or unsecured basis, • a decrease in the market price for our common stock, and • volatility in the public debt and equity markets. Cash Flows Fiscal Year 2023 Compared to Fiscal Year 2022 Operating Activities. Net cash provided by continuing operations was $279.4 million for fiscal year 2023, as compared to $672.5 million for fiscal year 2022, a decrease of $393.1 million, primarily due to lower profitability from a decreased demand in COVID-19 product offerings and more cash used in working capital during fiscal year 2023 as compared to fiscal year 2022.  The cash provided by operating activities for fiscal year 2023 was principally a result of income from continuing operations of $179.5 million, adjustments for non-cash charges aggregating to $491.2 million, including depreciation and amortization of $431.8 million, and a net cash decrease in working capital of $391.3 million, primarily due to trailing divestiture-related liabilities with expected recovery from the post-closing adjustments related to the sale of the Business. During fiscal year 2023, we contributed $10.0 million to our pension plan in the United States and $7.6 million, in the aggregate, to pension plans outside of the United States. Investing Activities. Net cash used in the investing activities of our continuing operations was $761.2 million for fiscal year 2023, as compared to $116.9 million for fiscal year 2022, an increase of $644.3 million. During fiscal year 2023, we made purchases of investments in U.S. treasury securities totaling $1,221.6 million. For fiscal year 2023, the net cash used for capital expenditures and acquisitions were $81.4 million and $2.1 million, respectively, as compared to $85.6 million and $7.5 million, respectively, for fiscal year 2022. The capital expenditures in each period were primarily for manufacturing, software, and other capital equipment purchases. During fiscal year 2023, purchases of investments were $6.3 million, as compared to $47.2 million for fiscal year 2022. The cash used in investing activities during fiscal year 2023 was partially offset by proceeds from 32 maturity of U.S. treasury securities totaling $550.0 million, and proceeds from disposition of businesses and assets totaling $0.2 million. The cash used in investing activities during fiscal year 2022 was partially offset by proceeds from notes receivable totaling $8.9 million, and proceeds from disposition of businesses and assets totaling $14.5 million. Financing Activities. Net cash used in the financing activities of our continuing operations was $947.1 million for fiscal year 2023, as compared to $661.8 million for fiscal year 2022, an increase of $285.3 million. During fiscal year 2023, we made net payments of $517.5 million on debts, as compared to $559.2 million during fiscal year 2022. The changes in both periods reflect our intentions to pay down debt, which we expect to continue throughout fiscal year 2024. During fiscal year 2023, we repurchased shares of our common stock for a total cost of $388.9 million, as compared to $80.6 million in fiscal year 2022. We paid $35.0 million in dividends for fiscal year 2023, as compared to $35.3 million in fiscal year 2022. We paid $10.1 million for acquisition-related contingent consideration during fiscal year 2023. We paid $0.8 million in settlement of hedges in fiscal year 2022. The cash used in financing activities during fiscal year 2023 was partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock plans of $4.3 million during fiscal year 2023, as compared to $14.1 million in fiscal year 2022. Fiscal Year 2022 Compared to Fiscal Year 2021 For a discussion of our results of operations for fiscal year 2022 as compared to fiscal year 2021, see Item 7, Management ’ s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2023 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 1, 2023. Borrowing Arrangements During fiscal year 2023, we paid in full $467.1 million of outstanding 0.550% senior unsecured notes that became due in September 2023. Since the beginning of the third quarter of fiscal year 2022, we have repurchased $88.5 million in aggregate principal amount of our 2024 Notes. At December 31, 2023, we had investments in U.S. treasury securities with a carrying amount of $689.9 million whose proceeds upon maturity are intended to be utilized to repay the outstanding 2024 Notes. See Note 13, Debt, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed discussion of our borrowing arrangements. Dividends Our Board of Directors (our “Board”) declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share in each quarter of fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021, resulting in an annual dividend rate of $0.28 per share. At December 31, 2023, we had accrued $8.6 million for a dividend declared in October 2023 for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2023 that was paid in February 2024. On January 25, 2024, we announced that our Board had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share for the first quarter of fiscal year 2024 that will be payable in May 2024. In the future, our Board may determine to reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in order to fund investments for growth, repurchase shares or conser ve capital resources. Capital Expenditures During fiscal year 2024, we expect to invest an amount for capital expenditures similar to that in fiscal year 2023, primarily to introduce new products, to improve our operating processes, to shift the production capacity to lower cost locations, and to develop information technology. We expect to use our available cash and internally generated funds to fund these expenditures. Other Potential Liquidity Considerations At December 31, 2023, we had cash and cash equivalents of $913.2 million, of which $429.0 million was held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries, and we had $1.49 billion of additional borrowing capacity available under a senior unsecured revolving credit facility. We had no other liquid investments at December 31, 2023. At December 31, 2023, we had investments in U.S. treasury securities with a carrying amount of $689.9 million whose proceeds upon maturity are intended to be utilized to repay our outstanding 2024 Notes. 33 In connection with the sale of the Business, we are entitled to an additional $75.0 million in proceeds as consideration for our ceasing the use of the PerkinElmer brand and related trademarks and transferring them to the Purchaser. This consideration is expected to be received in installments through the first half of 2025. In addition, we have also recorded a receivable of approximately $160.2 million as of December 31, 2023 for post-closing adjustments related to the sale of the Business that is expected to be received during fiscal year 2024. We use a variety of cash redeployment and financing strategies to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023, we repatriated approximately $1.6 billion of foreign cash to the United States. On July 22, 2022, our Board authorized us to repurchase shares of common stock for an aggregate amount up to $300.0 million under a stock repurchase program (the “Repurchase Program”). On April 27, 2023, the Repurchase Program was terminated by the Board and the Board authorized us to repurchase shares of common stock for an aggregate amount up to $600.0 million under a new stock repurchase program (the “New Repurchase Program”). The New Repurchase Program will expire on April 26, 2025, unless terminated earlier by the Board and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. During fiscal year 2023 , we repurchased 1,004,544 shares of common stock under the Repurchase Program for an aggregate cost of $131.3 million. During fiscal year 2023 , we repurchased 2,159,985 shares of common stock under the New Repurchase Program for an aggregate cost of $244.6 million . As of December 31, 2023, $355.4 million remained available for aggregate repurchases of shares under the New Repurchase Program. If we continue to repurchase shares, the Repurchase Program will be funded using our existing financial resources, including cash and cash equivalents, and our existing senior unsecured revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2023, we may have to pay contingent consideration, related to acquisitions with open contingency periods, of up to $98.0 million. As of December 31, 2023, we have recorded contingent consideration obligations of $40.0 million, of which $11.0 million was recorded in accrued expenses and other current liabilities, and $29.0 million was recorded in long-term liabilities. The expected maximum earnout period for acquisitions with open contingency periods is 7.9 years from December 31, 2023, and the remaining weighted average expected earnout period at December 31, 2023 was 5.0 years. Distressed global financial markets could adversely impact general economic conditions by reducing liquidity and credit availability, creating increased volatility in security prices, widening credit spreads and decreasing valuations of certain investments. The widening of credit spreads may create a less favorable environment for certain of our businesses and may affect the fair value of financial instruments that we issue or hold. Increases in credit spreads, as well as limitations on the availability of credit at rates we consider to be reasonable, could affect our ability to borrow under future potential facilities on a secured or unsecured basis, which may adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. In difficult global financial markets, we may be forced to fund our operations at a higher cost, or we may be unable to raise as much funding as we need to support our business activities. Our pension plans have not experienced a material impact on liquidity or counterparty exposure due to the volatility and uncertainty in the credit markets. With respect to plans outside of the United States, we expect to contribute $6.9 million in the aggregate during fiscal year 2024. During fiscal years 2023 and 2022, we contributed $7.6 million and $6.6 million in the aggregate, respectively, to pension plans outside of the United States. During fiscal year 2023, we contributed $10.0 million to our defined benefit pension plan in the United States for the plan year 2022. We could potentially have to make additional funding payments in future periods for all pension plans. We expect to use existing cash and external sources to satisfy future contributions to our pension plans. Effects of Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1, Nature of Operations and Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of recently issued accounting pronouncements. We did not adopt any new accounting pronouncements during fiscal year 2023. We are in the process of determining the impact of the recently issued accounting pronouncements that have not yet been adopted in our consolidated financial statements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to accounting for business combinations, long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangibles and employee compensation and benefits. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 34 We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Business combinations. Business combinations are accounted for at fair value. Acquisition costs are expensed as incurred and recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses; restructuring costs associated with a business combination are expensed subsequent to the acquisition date; and changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and income tax uncertainties after the acquisition date affect income tax expense. Measurement period adjustments are made in the period in which the amounts are determined and the current period income effect of such adjustments will be calculated as if the adjustments had been completed as of the acquisition date. All changes that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments are also included in current period earnings. The accounting for business combinations requires estimates and judgment as to expectations for future cash flows of the acquired business, and the allocation of those cash flows to identifiable intangible assets, in determining the estimated fair value for assets acquired and liabilities as sumed. The fair values assigned to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including contingent consideration, are based on management’s estimates and assumptions, as well as other information compiled by management, including valuations that utilize customary valuation procedures and techniques. For intangible assets, we normally utilize the “ income method ” which incorporates the forecast of all the expected future net cash flows attributable to the subject intangible asset, adjusted to present value by applying an appropriate discount rate that reflects the risk factors associated with the cash flow streams. Depending on the asset valued, the key assumptions included one or more of the following: (1) future revenue growth rates, (2) future gross margin, (3) future selling, general and administrative expenses, (4) royalty rates, (5) customer attrition rates, and (6) discount rates. If the actual results differ from the estimates and judgments used in these estimates, the amounts recorded in the financial statements could result in a possible impairment of the intangible assets and goodwill, require acceleration of the amortization expense of finite-lived intangible assets, or the recognition of additional consideration which would be expensed. The fair value of contingent consideration is remeasured each period based on relevant information and changes to the fair value are included in the operating results for the period. Divestitures: As part of our continuing efforts to focus on higher growth opportunities, we have discontinued certain businesses. In accounting for such transactions, we apply the applicable accounting guidance under U.S. GAAP pertaining to discontinued operations and disposals of components of an entity. When the discontinued operations represented a strategic shift that will have a major effect on our operations and financial statements, we accounted for these businesses as discontinued operations. We recognize divestiture-related costs that are not part of divestiture consideration as general and administrative expense as they are incurred. These costs typically include transaction and disposal costs, such as legal, accounting, and other professional fees. The accounting for divestiture requires estimates and judgment as to the determination of the gain or loss on sale and the fair value of the different elements of consideration received. We received cash proceeds of $2.13 billion and we are entitled to two elements of additional consideration that become payable upon the resolution of certain events. First, we are entitled to proceeds of $75.0 million as consideration for our ceasing the use of the PerkinElmer brand and related trademarks and transferring them to the Purchaser (“Brand Sale”). This consideration is expected to be received in installments through the first half of 2025. We are also entitled to proceeds of up to $150.0 million that is contingent on the proceeds that the Purchaser and its affiliates receive on a subsequent sale or other capital event related to the Business (“Contingent Gain”). The recognition of the future payment related to the Brand Sale and Contingent Gain to the gain on sale and the fair value assigned to the Contingent Gain, are based on management’s estimates and assumptions, as well as other information compiled by management, including valuations that utilize customary valuation procedures and techniques. In deriving the fair value of the Contingent Gain, we utilized a lattice model, which incorporates one or more of the following key assumptions: (1) simulated equity value from the valuation date through the expected liquidity event, (2) volatility based on guideline public companies, (3) expected term to a liquidity event, and (4) risk-free rates. If the actual results differ from the estimates and judgments used in these estimates, the amounts recorded in the financial statements could result in the recognition of additional consideration which would increase the gain on sale or impairment of the receivable from the Purchaser. The fair value of contingent consideration is remeasured each period based on relevant information and changes to the fair value are included in the operating results from continuing operations for the period. We also recorded a receivable of approximately $160.2 million as of December 31, 2023 for post-closing adjustments related to the sale of the Business that is expected to be received during fiscal year 2024. The final amount of the receivable related to the post-closing adjustments is subject to change and could result in an adjustment to the gain when settled. Value of long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangibles. We carry a variety of long-lived assets on our consolidated balance sheets including property and equipment, operating lease right of use assets, investments, identifiable intangible assets, and goodwill. We periodically review the carrying value of all of these assets based, in part, upon current estimates of fair values and our projections of anticipated future cash flows. We undertake this review (i) on an annual basis for assets such as goodwill, and (ii) on a periodic basis for other long-lived assets when facts and circumstances suggest that cash flows related to those assets may be diminished. Any impairment charge that we record reduces our earnings. 35 For goodwill, the test consists of the comparison of the fair value to the carrying value of the reporting unit to determine if the carrying value exceeds the fair value. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss in an amount equal to that excess is recognized up to the amount of goodwill. We perform the annual impairment assessment on the later of January 1 or the first day of each fiscal year. This same impairment test will be performed at other times during the course of the year should an event o ccur which suggests that the recoverability of goodwill should be reconsidered. We completed the annual goodwill impairment test using a measurement date of January 2, 2023, and concluded that there was no goodwill impairment. We consistently emplo y the income approach to estimate the current fair value when testing for impairment of goodwill. A number of significant assumptions and estimates are involved in the application of the income approach to forecast operating cash flows, including markets and market share, sales volumes and prices, costs to produce, tax rates, capital spending, discount rates and working capital changes. Cash flow forecasts are based on approved business unit operating plans for the early years’ cash flows and historical relationships in later years. The income approach is sensitive to changes in long-term terminal growth rates and the discount rates. The long-term terminal growth rates are consistent with our historical long-term terminal growth rates, as the current short-term economic trends are not expected to affect our long-term terminal growth rates. We corroborate the income approach with a market approach. While we believe that our estimates of current value are reasonable, if actual results differ from the estimates and judgments used including such items as future cash flows and the volatility inherent in markets which we serve, impairment charges against the carrying value of those assets could be required in the future. At January 2, 2023, the fair value exceeded the carrying value by more than 20.0% for each reporting unit, except for the Tulip and EUROIMMUN reporting units, which had fair values that exceeded their carrying values by less than 20%. The range of the long-term terminal growth rates for the reporting units was 2.0% to 6.0% for the fiscal year 2023 impairment analysis. The range for the discount rates for the reporting units was 8.5% to 14.5%. Keeping all other variables constant, a 10.0% change in any one of these input assumptions for the various reporting units, except for our Tulip and EUROIMMUN reporting units, would still allow us to conclude that there was no impairment of goodwill. At December 31, 2023, the operating performance of EUROIMMUN reporting unit exceeded the original forecast and the forecast for this reporting unit no longer indicates any sensitivity that would lead to a material impairment charge. In connection with the fiscal year 2024 impairment test performed as of January 1, 2024, the Tulip and Life Sciences reporting units, which had goodwill balances of $75.0 million and $4.4 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2023, had fair values that exceeded their carrying values by less than 20%. These reporting units are at increased risk of an impairment charge given the higher discount rates, competition and, to some extent, the macro-environment in which these reporting units operate. Despite the increased impairment risk associated with these reporting units, we do not believe there will be a significant change in the key estimates or assumptions driving the fair value of these reporting units that would lead to a material impairment charge. Employee compensation and benefits. We sponsor both funded and unfunded U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefits. Retirement and postretirement benefit plans are a significant cost of doing business, and represent obligations that will be ultimately settled far in the future, and therefore are subject to estimation. Retirement and postretirement benefit plan expenses are allocated to cost of revenue, research and development, and selling, general and administrative expenses, in our consolidated statements of operations. We immediately recognize actuarial gains and losses in operating results in the year in which the gains and losses occur. Actuarial gains and losses are measured annually as of the calendar month-end that is closest to our fiscal year end and accordingly will be recorded in the fourth quarter, unless we are required to perform an interim remeasurement. We recognized a loss of $20.2 million in fiscal year 2023 and a gain of $28.3 million in fiscal year 2022, for our retirement and postretirement benefit plans, which include the charge or benefit for the mark-to-market adjustment for the benefit plans, which were recorded in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. The loss or income related to the mark-to-market adjustment on benefit plans was a pre-tax loss of $5.7 million in fiscal year 2023 and a pre-tax gain of $28.9 million fiscal year 2022. We expect a loss of approximately $10.0 million in fiscal year 2024 for our retirement and postretirement benefit plans, excluding the charge for or benefit from the mark-to-market adjustment. It is difficult to reliably calculate and predict whether there will be a mark-to-market adjustment in fiscal year 2024. Mark-to-market adjustments are primarily driven by events and circumstances beyond our control, including changes in interest rates, the performance of the financial markets and mortality assumptions. To the extent the discount rates decrease or the value of our pension and postretirement investments decrease, mark-to market charges to operations will be recorded in fiscal year 2024. Conversely, to the extent the discount rates increase or the value of our pension and postretirement investments increase more than expected, mark-to market income will be recorded in fiscal year 2024. Pension accounting is intended to reflect the recognition of future benefit costs over the employee’s approximate service period based on the terms of the plans and the investment and funding decisions made. We are required to make assumptions regarding such variables as the expected long-term rate of return on assets, the discount rate applied and mortality assumptions, to determine service cost and interest cost, in order to arrive at expected pension income or expense for the year. We use discount rates for each individual plan based upon the expected cash flows using the applicable spot rates derived from a yield curve over the projected cash flow period. 36 If any of our assumptions were to change as of December 31, 2023, our pension plan expenses would also change as follows: