********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

You should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations section, the Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk section and the consolidated financial statements and related notes. If any of the risks and uncertainties described in the cautionary factors described below actually occur or continue to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. The considerations and risks that follow are organized within relevant headings but may be relevant to other headings as well. Moreover, the risks below are not the only risks we face and additional risks not currently known to us or that we presently deem immaterial may emerge or become material at any time and may negatively impact our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations or the trading price of our common stock. Risks Related to Macroeconomic Conditions • Our financial condition and results of operations are subject to, and may be adversely affected by, a number of macroeconomic and other factors, many of which are also largely outside our control. Our operating results have been in the past and will continue to be subject to a number of macroeconomic and other factors, many of which are largely outside our control. Any one or more of the factors listed below or described elsewhere in this risk factors section could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations: • increases in real estate costs in certain domestic and international markets; • inflationary pressures; • disruptions to our supply chain; • changes in governmental rules and approaches to taxation; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • adverse outcomes of litigation; • severe weather or other natural or man-made disasters affecting a large market or several closely located markets that may temporarily but significantly affect our retail business in such markets; • changes in climate, including changes to the frequency of severe weather events, that impact the price and availability or cost of goods and services, energy and other materials throughout our supply chain; and • especially in our largest markets, including the U.S. and China, labor discord or disruption, geopolitical events, war, terrorism (including incidents targeting us), political instability, acts of public violence, boycotts, increasing anti-American sentiment in certain markets, hostilities and social unrest and other health pandemics that lead to avoidance of public places or restrictions on public gatherings such as in our stores. • Economic conditions in the U.S. and international markets could adversely affect our business and financial results. As a retailer that is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, our results of operations are sensitive to changes in or uncertainty about macroeconomic conditions. A continued economic downturn or recession, or slowing or stalled recovery therefrom, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our customers may have or in the future have less money for discretionary purchases and may stop or reduce their purchases of our products or switch to Starbucks or competitors’ lower-priced products as a result of various factors, including job losses, inflation, higher taxes, reduced access to credit, changes in federal economic policy, the COVID-19 pandemic and recent international trade disputes. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic or other global health events, we may experience a reduction and increased volatility in demand for our products. Such reductions and volatility may be caused by, among other things: store closures or modified operating hours and business model, reduced customer traffic due to illness, quarantine or government or self-imposed 10 restrictions placed on our stores’ operations, impacts caused by precautionary measures such as those related to face coverings and vaccinations and changes in consumer spending behaviors, including those caused by social distancing, a decrease in consumer confidence in general macroeconomic conditions and a decrease in consumer discretionary spending. Decreases in customer traffic and/or average value per transaction without a corresponding decrease in costs would put downward pressure on margins and would negatively impact our financial results. There is also a risk that if negative economic conditions or uncertainty, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic or any other public health emergency, persist for a long period of time or worsen, consumers may make long-lasting changes to their discretionary purchasing behavior, including less frequent discretionary purchases on a more permanent basis or there may be a general downturn in the restaurant industry. These and other macroeconomic factors could have an adverse effect on our sales, profitability or development plans, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition. • Failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance and fluctuations in the stock market as a whole will likely adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock. Failure to meet market expectations going forward, particularly with respect to our operational and financial results, and expectations regarding the success of our Reinvention Plan and related guidance, environmental performance and shareholder returns, will likely result in a decline and/or increased volatility in the market price of our stock. In addition, price and volume fluctuations in the stock market as a whole may affect the market price of our stock in ways that may be unrelated to our financial performance. Risks Related to COVID-19 • Our financial condition and results of operations have been and are expected to continue to be adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has had, and is continuing to have, a significant impact on our business and results of operations. At the peak of the COVID-19 outbreak, many of our company-operated and licensed stores were closed. For stores that remained open, same-store sales declined due to modified operating hours and reduced customer traffic. While nearly all of our company-operated and licensed stores have reopened, we expect that certain parts of our operations will continue to be impacted by the continuing effects of COVID-19, including resurgences and variants of the virus. Our China market experienced unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic-related restrictions in multiple cities that severely impacted customer mobility. It remains difficult to predict the full impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the broader economy and how consumer behavior may change, and whether such change is temporary or permanent. Social distancing, telecommuting and reductions in travel may become the new normal. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic has required and may continue to require us to make controversial decisions about precautionary measures, such as vaccinations, showing proof of vaccinations and face coverings, that could impact our results, including by impacting our brand, our employee retention and satisfaction and the willingness of customers to buy our products. All of these conditions could fundamentally impact the way we work and the services we provide, and could have continuing adverse effects on our financial performance. As a result, we may incur additional impairment charges to our inventory, store and corporate assets—and our ability to realize the benefits from deferred tax assets may become limited—any of which may have a significant or material impact on our financial results. Prolonged volatility or significant disruption of global financial markets due in part to the COVID-19 pandemic could have a negative impact on our ability to access capital markets and other funding sources, on acceptable terms or at all and impede our ability to comply with debt covenants. Risks Related to Our Business If our business partners and third-party providers do not satisfactorily fulfill their responsibilities and commitments, it could damage our brand and our financial results could suffer. Our global business strategy, including our plans for new stores, branded products and other initiatives, relies significantly on a variety of business partners, including licensee and joint venture relationships, third-party manufacturers, distributors and retailers, particularly for our entire global Channel Development business. Licensees, retailers and foodservice operators are often authorized to use our logos and provide branded food, beverage and other products directly to customers. We believe our customers expect the same quality of service regardless of whether they visit a licensed or company-operated store, so we provide training and support to, and monitor the operations of, certain of these licensees and other business partners. However, the product quality and service they deliver may still be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control, including financial constraints, adherence to sanitation protocols and guidance (including those resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic), labor shortages and other factors. We do not have direct control over our business partners and may not have visibility into their practices. 11 We also source our food, beverage and other products from a wide variety of domestic and international business partners, and in certain cases such products are produced or sourced by our licensees directly. And although foodservice operators are authorized to use our logos and provide branded products as part of their foodservice business, we do not monitor the quality of non-Starbucks products served in those locations. Additionally, inconsistent uses of our brand and other of our intellectual property assets, as well as failure to protect our intellectual property, can erode consumer trust and our brand value and have a material negative impact on our financial results. • Incidents involving food or beverage-borne illnesses, tampering, adulteration, contamination or mislabeling, whether or not accurate, as well as adverse public or medical opinions about the health effects of consuming our products, could harm our business. Instances or reports, whether true or not, of unclean water supply or food-safety issues, such as food or beverage-borne illnesses, tampering, adulteration, contamination or mislabeling, either during growing, manufacturing, packaging, storing or preparation, have in the past severely injured the reputations of companies in the food and beverage processing, grocery and quick-service restaurant sectors. Any report linking us to such instances could severely hurt our sales and could possibly lead to product liability claims, litigation (including class actions) and/or temporary store closures. Clean water is critical to the preparation of coffee, tea and other beverages, as well as ice for our cold beverages, and our ability to ensure adequate supplies of clean water and ice to our stores can be limited, particularly in some international locations. We are also continuing to incorporate more products in our food and beverage lineup that require freezing or refrigeration, which increases the risk of food safety related incidents if correct temperatures are not maintained due to mechanical malfunction or human error. We also face risk by relying on third-party food suppliers to provide and transport ingredients and finished products to our stores. While we monitor the operations of certain of these business partners, the product quality and service they deliver may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control and it may be difficult to detect contamination or other defects in these products. There is greater risk from those we do not monitor, or do not monitor as closely. Furthermore, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, there are stricter health regulations and guidelines and increased public concern over food safety standards and controls. Potential food safety incidents, whether at our stores or involving our business partners, could lead to wide public exposure, which could materially harm our business. Additionally, we are evolving our product lineup to include more local or smaller suppliers for some of our products who may not have as rigorous quality and safety systems and protocols as larger or more national suppliers, especially in light of the heightened safety protocols as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, instances of food or beverage-safety issues, even those involving solely the restaurants or stores of competitors or of suppliers or distributors (regardless of whether we use or have used those suppliers or distributors), could adversely affect our sales on a regional or global basis by resulting in negative publicity about us or the foodservice industry in general. A decrease in customer traffic as a result of food-safety concerns or negative publicity, or as a result of a temporary closure of any of our stores, product recalls, viral-contaminated food or beverage claims or other food or beverage-safety claims or litigation, could materially harm our business and results of operations. • We may not be successful in implementing important strategic initiatives or effectively managing growth, which may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. There is no assurance that we will be able to implement important strategic initiatives in accordance with our expectations or that they will generate expected returns, which may result in an adverse impact on our business and financial results. These strategic initiatives, which includes our Reinvention Plan, are designed to create growth, improve our results of operations and drive long-term shareholder value, and include: • being an employer of choice and investing in employees to deliver a superior customer experience; • building our leadership position around coffee; • driving convenience, brand engagement and digital relationships through our mobile, loyalty, delivery and digital capabilities both domestically and internationally; • simplifying store administrative tasks to allow store partners to better engage with customers; • increasing the scale of the Starbucks store footprint with disciplined global expansion and introducing flexible and unique store formats, including the accelerated development of alternative store formats (such as Starbucks Pickup stores, Starbucks Now stores and curbside pickup) especially in light of the COVID-19 pandemic; • adjusting rapidly to changing customer preferences and behaviors in light of the COVID-19 pandemic, inflation and changing economic conditions; • moving to a more licensed store model in some markets and a more company-operated model in certain markets; 12 • creating new occasions in stores across all dayparts with new product offerings, including our growing lunch food and beverage product lineup; • continuing the global growth of our Channel Development business through our supply, distribution and licensing agreements with Nestlé and other Channel Development business partners; • delivering continued growth in our cold beverage business; • working to address the potential effects of climate change and the sustainability of our business; and • reducing our operating costs, particularly general and administrative expenses. In addition to other factors listed in this risk factors section, factors that may adversely affect the successful implementation of these initiatives, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results, include the following: • imposition of additional taxes by jurisdictions, such as on certain types of beverages or based on number of employees; • construction cost increases associated with new store openings and remodeling of existing stores; delays in store openings for reasons beyond our control, such as potential shortages of materials and labor and delays in permits, or a lack of desirable real estate locations available for lease at reasonable rates, either of which could keep us from meeting annual store opening targets in the U.S. and internationally; • governmental regulations or other health guidelines concerning operations of stores, including due to the COVID-19 pandemic or other public health emergencies; • not successfully scaling our supply chain infrastructure as our product offerings increase and as we continue to expand, including our emphasis on a broad range of high-quality food offerings; • not successfully adapting to customer or market factors affecting our supply chain as we work to address sustainability and climate change; and • the deterioration in our credit ratings, which could limit the availability of additional financing and increase the cost of obtaining financing to fund our initiatives. Effectively managing growth can be challenging, particularly as we expand in international markets where we must balance the need for flexibility and a degree of autonomy for local management against the need for consistency with our goals, policies and standards. If we are not successful in implementing our strategic initiatives, or, in the event we undertake large acquisitions, integrations and divestitures, we may be required to evaluate whether certain assets, including goodwill and other intangibles, have become impaired. In the event we record an impairment charge, it could have a material impact on our financial results. • Evolving consumer preferences and tastes may adversely affect our business. Our continued success depends on our ability to attract and retain customers. Our financial results could be adversely affected by a shift in consumer spending away from outside-the-home food and beverages (such as the disruption caused by online commerce that results in reduced foot traffic to “brick & mortar” retail stores); lack of customer acceptance of new products (including due to price increases necessary to cover the costs of new products or higher input costs), brands (such as the global expansion of the Starbucks brand) and platforms (such as features of our mobile technology, changes in our loyalty rewards programs, the Starbucks Odyssey experience and our delivery services initiatives); or customers reducing their demand for our current offerings as new products are introduced. In addition, some of our products contain caffeine, dairy products, sugar and other compounds and allergens, the health effects of which are the subject of public and regulatory scrutiny, including the suggestion of linkages to a variety of adverse health effects. Particularly in the U.S., there is increasing consumer awareness of health risks, including obesity, as well as increased consumer litigation based on alleged adverse health impacts of consumption of various food and beverage products. While we have a variety of beverage and food items, including items that are coffee-free and have reduced calories, an unfavorable report on the health effects of caffeine or other compounds present in our products, whether accurate or not, imposition of additional taxes on certain types of food and beverage components, or negative publicity or litigation arising from certain health risks could significantly reduce the demand for our beverages and food products and could materially harm our business and results of operations. Furthermore, our financial results have been and could continue to be adversely affected by the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, which has resulted in a disruption of customer routines, changes to employer “work-from-home” policies, reduced business and recreational travel and changes in consumer behavior and the ability or willingness to spend discretionary income on our products. 13 Risks Related to Brand Relevance and Brand Execution • Our success depends substantially on the value of our brands and failure to preserve their value could have a negative impact on our financial results. We believe we have built an excellent reputation globally for the quality of our products, for delivery of a consistently positive consumer experience and for our global social and environmental impact programs. The Starbucks brand is recognized throughout most of the world, and we have received high ratings in global brand value studies. To be successful in the future, particularly outside of the U.S. where the Starbucks brand and our other brands are less well-known, we believe we must preserve, grow and leverage the value of our brands across all sales channels. Brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective qualities. Business incidents, whether isolated or recurring and whether originating from us or our business partners, that erode consumer trust can significantly reduce brand value, potentially trigger boycotts of our stores or result in civil or criminal liability and can have a negative impact on our financial results. Such incidents include actual or perceived breaches of privacy or violations of domestic or international privacy laws, contaminated food, product recalls, store employees or other food handlers infected with communicable diseases, such as COVID-19, safety-related incidents or other potential incidents discussed in this risk factors section. The impact of such incidents may be exacerbated if they receive considerable publicity, including rapidly through social or digital media (including for malicious reasons) or result in litigation. Consumer demand for our products and our brand equity could diminish significantly if we, our employees, licensees or other business partners fail to preserve the quality of our products, act or are perceived to act in an unethical, illegal, racially-biased, unequal or socially irresponsible manner, including with respect to the sourcing, content or sale of our products, service and treatment of customers at Starbucks stores, treatment of employees or the use of customer data for general or direct marketing or other purposes. Furthermore, if we are not effective in addressing our social and environmental program goals, executing on our Reinvention Plan, or achieving relevant sustainability goals, consumer trust in our brand may suffer, and this perception could result in negative publicity or litigation. Additionally, if we fail to comply with laws and regulations, take controversial positions or actions or fail to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience in each of our markets, including by failing to invest in the right balance of wages and benefits to attract and retain employees that represent the brand well or to foster an inclusive and diverse environment, our brand value may be diminished. The ongoing relevance of our brand may depend on the success of our social and environmental program goals as well as the success of the Reinvention Plan, which requires company-wide coordination and alignment. We are working to manage risks and costs to us, our licensees and our supply chain of any effects of climate change as well as diminishing energy and water resources. These risks include any increased public focus, including by governmental and nongovernmental organizations, on these and other environmental sustainability matters, including packaging and waste, animal health and welfare, deforestation and land use. These risks may also include any increased pressure to make commitments, set targets or establish additional goals and take actions to meet them, which could expose us to market, operational and execution costs or risks. • We may not be successful in our marketing, promotional and advertising plans and pricing strategies. Our continued success depends in part on our ability to adjust our marketing, promotional and advertising plans and pricing strategy to respond quickly and effectively to shifting economic and competitive conditions as well as evolving customer preferences. We operate in a complex and costly marketing, promotional and advertising environment. Our marketing, promotional and advertising programs may not be successful in reaching our customers in the way we intend. Our success depends in part on whether the allocation of our advertising, promotional and marketing resources across different channels, including digital marketing, allows us to reach our customers effectively and efficiently, and in ways that are meaningful to them. If the advertising, promotional and marketing programs or our pricing strategies are not successful, or are not as successful as those of our competitors, our sales and market share could decrease. Finally, customers are focusing more on sustainability and the environmental impacts of operations. An inability to meet customer expectations with respect to these issues could adversely affect our financial results. Risks Related to Cybersecurity and Data Privacy • Failure to maintain satisfactory compliance with certain privacy and data protections laws and regulations may subject us to substantial negative financial consequences and civil or criminal penalties. Complex local, state, national, foreign and international laws and regulations apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer and other processing of personal data. These privacy and data protection laws and regulations are quickly evolving, with new or modified laws and regulations proposed and implemented frequently and existing laws and regulations subject to new or different interpretations and enforcement. In addition, our legal and regulatory obligations in jurisdictions outside the U.S. are subject to unexpected changes, including the potential for regulatory or other governmental entities to enact new or additional laws or regulations, to issue rulings that invalidate prior laws or regulations or to increase penalties 14 significantly. Complying with these laws and regulations can be costly and can impede the development and offering of new products and services. For example, Europe’s General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) and the U.K. General Data Protection Regulation (which implements the GDPR into U.K. law), impose stringent data protection requirements and provide for significant penalties for noncompliance. Additionally, California enacted legislation, the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”). The CCPA requires, among other things, covered companies to provide new disclosures to California consumers and allows such consumers new abilities to opt-out of certain sales of personal data. The CCPA also provides for civil penalties for violations as well as a private right of action for data breaches that may increase data breach litigation. Further, the California Privacy Rights Act, which was passed in November 2020 and is fully effective in January 2023, significantly modifies the CCPA. Colorado, Connecticut, Utah and Virginia recently enacted similar data privacy legislation that will also take effect in 2023, and several other states and countries are considering expanding or passing privacy laws in the near term. These modifications and new laws will require us to incur additional costs and expenses in our efforts to comply. In June 2021, the European Commission published new versions of the Standard Contractual Clauses and in March 2022, the U.K. finalized the U.K. International Data Transfer Agreement. The new requirements will require us to incur costs and expenses in order to comply and may impact the transfer of personal data throughout our organization and to third parties. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or other obligations to which we may be subject relating to personal data, or to protect personal data from unauthorized access, use or other processing, could result in enforcement actions and regulatory investigations against us, claims for damages by customers and other affected individuals, fines, damage to our brand reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial performance and business. • The unauthorized access, use, theft or destruction of customer or employee personal, financial or other data or of Starbucks proprietary or confidential information that is stored in our information systems or by third parties on our behalf could impact our reputation and brand and expose us to potential liability and loss of revenues. Many of our information technology systems (whether cloud-based or hosted in proprietary servers), including those used for our point-of-sale, web and mobile platforms, online and mobile payment systems, delivery services and rewards programs and administrative functions, contain personal, financial or other information that is entrusted to us by our customers and employees. Many of our information technology systems also contain Starbucks proprietary and other confidential information related to our business, such as business plans and product development initiatives and designs, and confidential information about third parties, such as licensees and business partners. Similar to many other retail companies and because of the prominence of our brand, we are consistently subject to attempts to compromise our information technology systems from both internal and external sources. The number and frequency of these attempts varies from year to year but could be exacerbated to some extent by an increase in our digital operations, including our efforts to comply with state and local mandates in response to COVID‑19. In addition, we provide some customer and employee data, as well as Starbucks proprietary information and other confidential information important to our business, to third parties where necessary to conduct our business, including licensees and business partners. Individuals performing work for Starbucks and such third parties also may possess some of this data, including on personally-owned digital devices. To the extent we, a third party or such an individual were to experience a breach of our or their information technology systems that results in the unauthorized access, theft, use, destruction or other compromises of customers’ or employees’ data or confidential information of the Company stored in or transmitted through such systems, including through cyber-attacks or other external or internal methods, it could result in a material loss of revenues from the potential adverse impact to our reputation and brand, a decrease in our ability to retain customers or attract new ones, the imposition of potentially significant costs (including loss of data or payment for recovery of data) and liabilities, loss of business, loss of business partners and licensees and the disruption to our supply chain, business and plans. Unauthorized access, theft, use, destruction or other compromises may occur through a variety of methods, including attacks using malicious code, those taking advantage of vulnerabilities in software, hardware or other infrastructure (including systems used by our supply chain), those using techniques aimed at convincing those with access to such data or information to share passwords or otherwise allow access through deceit or otherwise and those taking advantage of inadequate account security practices. Such security breaches also could result in a violation of applicable U.S. and international privacy, cyber and other laws or trigger U.S. state data breach notification laws, and subject us to private consumer, business partner or licensee or securities litigation and governmental investigations and proceedings, any of which could result in our exposure to material civil or criminal liability. Significant capital investments and other expenditures could also be required to investigate security incidents, remedy cybersecurity problems, recuperate lost data, prevent future compromises and adapt systems and practices to react to the changing threat environment. These include costs associated with notifying affected individuals and other agencies, additional security technologies, trainings, personnel, experts and credit monitoring services for those whose data has been breached. These costs, which could be material, could adversely impact our results of operations in the period in which they are incurred, 15 including by interfering with the pursuit of other important business strategies and initiatives, and may not meaningfully limit the success of future attempts to breach our information technology systems. Media or other reports of existing or perceived security vulnerabilities in our systems or those of our third-party business partners or service providers can also adversely impact our brand and reputation and materially impact our business. Additionally, the techniques and sophistication used to conduct cyber-attacks and compromise information technology systems, as well as the sources and targets of these attacks, change frequently and are often not recognized until such attacks are launched or have been in place for a period of time. We continue to make significant investments in technology, third-party services and personnel to develop and implement systems and processes that are designed to anticipate cyber-attacks and to prevent or minimize breaches of our information technology systems or data loss, but these security measures cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in preventing such breaches or data loss. • We rely heavily on information technology in our operations and growth initiatives, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate and grow our business and could adversely affect our financial results. We rely heavily on information technology systems across our operations for numerous purposes including for administrative functions, point-of-sale processing and payment in our stores and online, management of our supply chain, Starbucks Cards, online business, delivery services, mobile technology, including mobile payments and ordering apps, reloads and loyalty functionality and various other processes and transactions, and many of these systems are interdependent on one another for their functionality. Additionally, the success of several of our initiatives to drive growth, including our ability to increase digital relationships with our customers to drive incremental traffic and spend, is highly dependent on our technology systems. Furthermore, due to the social distancing measures put in place as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we accelerated the transformation of our store portfolio by expanding convenience-led formats, which depend heavily on our mobile ordering capabilities. We also rely on third-party providers and platforms for some of these information technology systems and support. Additionally, our systems hardware, software and services provided by third-party service providers are not fully redundant within a market or across our markets. Although we have operational safeguards in place, they may not be effective in preventing the failure of these systems or platforms to operate effectively and be available. Such failures may be caused by various factors, including power outages, climate change-related impacts, catastrophic events, physical theft, computer and network failures, inadequate or ineffective redundancy, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems or platforms, flaws in third-party software or services, errors or improper use by our employees or third-party service providers, or a breach in the security of these systems or platforms, including through cyber-attacks such as those that result in the blockage of our or our third-party business partners’ or service providers’ systems and platforms and those discussed in more detail in this risk factors section. If our incident response, disaster recovery and business continuity plans do not resolve these issues in an effective and timely manner, they could result in an interruption in our operations and could cause material negative impacts to our product availability and sales, the efficiency of our operations and our financial results. In addition, remediation of any problems with our systems could result in significant, unplanned expenses. Risks Related to Intellectual Property • We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property or adequately ensure that we are not infringing the intellectual property of others, which could harm the value of our brand and our business. The success of our business depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks and service marks in order to increase brand awareness and further develop our branded products in both domestic and international markets. We rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, service marks, trade secrets, patents and other intellectual property rights to protect our brand and branded products. We have registered certain trademarks and have other trademark registrations pending in the U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions. The trademarks that we currently use have not been registered in all of the countries outside of the U.S. in which we do business or may do business in the future and may never be registered in all of these countries. It may be costly and time consuming to protect our intellectual property, and the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property in the U.S. and foreign countries may not be adequate. In addition, the steps we have taken may not adequately ensure that we do not infringe the intellectual property of others, and third parties may claim infringement by us in the future. Any claim of infringement, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and harm our business. In addition, we cannot ensure that licensees will not take actions that hurt the value of our intellectual property. Risks Related to Supply Chain • Our reliance on key business partners may adversely affect our business and operations. The growth of our business relies on the ability of our licensee partners to implement our growth platforms and product innovations as well as on the degree to which we are able to enter into, maintain, develop and negotiate appropriate terms and 16 conditions of, and enforce, commercial and other agreements and the performance of our business partners under such agreements. Our international licensees may face capital constraints or other factors that may limit the speed at which they are able to expand and develop in a certain market. Our Channel Development business is heavily reliant on Nestlé, which has the right to sell and distribute our packaged goods and foodservice products to retailers and operators, with few exceptions. If Nestlé fails to perform its distribution and marketing commitments under our agreements and/or fails to support, protect and grow our brand in Channel Development, our Channel Development business could be adversely impacted for a period of time, present long-term challenges to our brand, limit our ability to grow our Channel Development business and have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. Additionally, the growth of our Channel Development business is in part dependent on the level of discretionary support provided by our retail and licensed store businesses. There are generally a relatively small number of licensee partners operating in specific markets. If they are not able to access sufficient funds or financing, or are otherwise unable or unwilling to successfully operate and grow their businesses it could have a material adverse effect on our results in the markets. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, our financial results have been and could continue in the future to be adversely affected by the disruption to the operations of our business partners, including licensee relationships, third-party manufacturers, distributors and retailers, through the effects of business and facilities closures, reductions in operating hours, social, economic, political or labor instability in affected areas, transportation delays, travel restrictions and changes in operating procedures, including for additional cleaning and safety protocols. • Increases in the cost of high-quality arabica coffee beans or other commodities or decreases in the availability of high-quality arabica coffee beans or other commodities could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. The availability and prices of coffee beans and other commodities are subject to significant volatility. We purchase, roast and sell high-quality whole bean arabica coffee beans and related coffee products. The high-quality arabica coffee of the quality we seek tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a premium above the “C” price. This premium depends upon the supply and demand at the time of purchase and the amount of the premium can vary significantly. Increases in the “C” coffee commodity price increase the price of high-quality arabica coffee and also impact our ability to enter into fixed-price purchase commitments. We frequently enter into supply contracts whereby the quality, quantity, delivery period and other negotiated terms are agreed upon, but the date, and therefore price, at which the base “C” coffee commodity price component will be fixed has not yet been established. The supply and price of coffee we purchase can also be affected by multiple factors in the producing countries, such as weather, water supply quality and availability throughout the coffee production chain, natural disasters, crop disease and pests, general increase in farm inputs and costs of production, inventory levels, political and economic conditions and the actions of certain organizations and associations that have historically attempted to influence prices of green coffee through agreements establishing export quotas or by restricting coffee supplies. Climate change may further exacerbate many of these factors. Speculative trading in coffee commodities can also influence coffee prices. For example, drought conditions in Brazil have and, given continued drought conditions, are predicted to continue to impact coffee prices. Because of the significance of coffee beans to our operations, combined with our ability to only partially mitigate future price risk through purchasing practices and hedging activities, increases in the cost of high-quality arabica coffee beans could have a material adverse impact on our profitability. In addition, if we are not able to purchase sufficient quantities of green coffee due to any of the above factors or due to a worldwide or regional shortage, we may not be able to fulfill the demand for our coffee, which could have a material adverse impact on our business operations and financial performance. We also purchase significant amounts of dairy products, particularly fluid milk, to support the needs of our company-operated retail stores. Additionally, and although less significant to our operations than coffee or dairy, other commodities, including tea and those related to food and beverage inputs, such as cocoa, produce, baking ingredients, meats, eggs and energy, as well as the processing of these inputs, are important to our operations. Increases in the cost of dairy products and other commodities, or lack of availability, whether due to supply shortages, delays or interruptions in processing, or otherwise, especially in international markets, could have a material adverse impact on our profitability. Similarly, increases in the cost of, or lack of availability, whether due to supply shortages, delays or interruptions in the processing of plant-based alternatives could have a material adverse impact on our profitability. • Interruption of our supply chain could affect our ability to produce or deliver our products and could negatively impact our business and profitability. Any material interruption in our supply chain, such as material interruption of roasted coffee supply due to the casualty loss of any of our roasting plants, interruptions in service by our third-party logistic service providers or common carriers that ship goods within our distribution channels, trade restrictions, such as increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes or customs restrictions, pandemics, social or labor unrest, labor shortages, natural disasters or political disputes and military conflicts that cause a material disruption in our supply chain could have a negative material impact on our business and our profitability. Additionally, our food, beverage and other products are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international business partners in our supply chain operations, and in certain cases are produced or sourced by our licensees directly. We rely on these 17 suppliers to provide high-quality products and to comply with applicable laws. Our ability to find qualified suppliers who meet our standards and supply products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge as we increase our fresh and prepared food offerings, especially with respect to goods sourced from outside the U.S. and from countries or regions with diminished infrastructure, developing or failing economies or which are experiencing political instability or social unrest. For certain products, we may rely on one or very few suppliers. A supplier's failure to meet our standards, provide products in a timely and efficient manner or comply with applicable laws is beyond our control. These issues could have a material negative impact on our business and profitability. Risks Related to Human Capital • Changes in the availability of and the cost of labor could adversely affect our business. Our business could be adversely impacted by increases in labor costs, including wages and benefits, which, in a retail business such as ours, are two of our most significant costs, both domestically and internationally, including those increases triggered by state and federal legislation and regulatory actions regarding wages, scheduling and benefits; increased healthcare and workers’ compensation insurance costs; increased wages and costs of other benefits necessary to attract and retain high-quality employees with the right skill sets and increased wages, benefits and costs related to the COVID-19 pandemic. The growth of our business can make it increasingly difficult to locate and hire sufficient numbers of employees, to maintain an effective system of internal controls for a globally dispersed enterprise and to train employees worldwide to deliver a consistently high-quality product and customer experience, which could materially harm our business and results of operations. Furthermore, we have experienced, and could continue to experience, a shortage of labor for store positions, including due to market trends and conditions such as continued concerns around COVID-19, the availability of new telecommuting employment options and other factors, which could decrease the pool of available qualified talent for key functions. Such labor shortages could be further exacerbated by expanded COVID-19 vaccination requirements. In addition, our wages and benefits programs may be insufficient to attract and retain the best talent. Starting in December 2021, Starbucks partners at company-operated stores in multiple jurisdictions across the U.S. began filing for unionization elections and a number of these stores have now successfully unionized, with potentially more to follow. While the number of partners represented by unions is not significant, if a significant portion of our employees were to become unionized, our labor costs could increase and our business could be negatively affected by other requirements and expectations that could increase our costs, change our employee culture, decrease our flexibility and disrupt our business. Additionally, our responses to any union organizing efforts could negatively impact how our brand is perceived and have adverse effects on our business, including on our financial results. These responses could also expose us to legal risk, causing us to incur costs to defend legal and regulatory actions, potential penalties and restrictions or reputational harm. • The loss of key personnel or difficulties recruiting and retaining qualified personnel could adversely impact our business and financial results. Much of our future success depends on the continued availability and service of senior management personnel. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key senior management personnel could harm our business. Our success also depends substantially on the contributions and abilities of our retail store employees on whom we rely to give customers a superior in-store experience and elevate our brand. Accordingly, our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain high-quality management personnel and other employees to work in and manage our stores, both domestically and internationally. Our ability to attract and retain corporate, retail and other personnel is also acutely impacted in certain international and domestic markets where the competition for a relatively small number of qualified employees is intense or in markets where large high-tech companies are able to offer more competitive salaries and benefits. Additionally, there is intense competition for qualified technology systems developers necessary to develop and implement new technologies for our growth initiatives, including increasing our digital relationships with customers. If we are unable to recruit, retain and motivate employees sufficiently to maintain our current business and support our projected growth, our business and financial performance may be adversely affected. Environmental, Social and Governance Risk Factors • Our business is subject to evolving corporate governance and public disclosure regulations and expectations, including with respect to environmental, social and governance matters, that could expose us to numerous risks. We are subject to changing rules and regulations promulgated by a number of governmental and self-regulatory organizations, including the SEC, the Nasdaq Stock Market and the Financial Accounting Standards Board. These rules and regulations continue to evolve in scope and complexity and many new requirements have been created in response to laws enacted by Congress, making compliance more difficult and uncertain. In addition, increasingly regulators, customers, investors, employees and other stakeholders are focusing on environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) matters and related disclosures. These changing rules, regulations and stakeholder expectations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and increased management time and attention spent complying with or meeting such regulations and expectations. For example, developing and acting on initiatives within the scope of ESG, and 18 collecting, measuring and reporting ESG related information and metrics can be costly, difficult and time consuming and is subject to evolving reporting standards, including the SEC’s recently proposed climate-related reporting requirements, and similar proposals by other international regulatory bodies. We may also communicate certain initiatives and goals, regarding environmental matters, diversity, responsible sourcing and social investments and other ESG related matters, in our SEC filings or in other public disclosures. These initiatives and goals within the scope of ESG could be difficult and expensive to implement, the technologies needed to implement them may not be cost effective and may not advance at a sufficient pace, and we could be criticized for the accuracy, adequacy or completeness of the disclosure. Further, statements about our ESG related initiatives and goals, and progress against those goals, may be based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing, internal controls and processes that continue to evolve, and assumptions that are subject to change in the future. In addition, we could be criticized for the scope or nature of such initiatives or goals, or for any revisions to these goals. If our ESG-related data, processes and reporting are incomplete or inaccurate, or if we fail to achieve progress with respect to our goals within the scope of ESG on a timely basis, or at all, our reputation, business, financial performance and growth could be adversely affected. • Climate change may have an adverse impact on our business. While we seek to mitigate our business risks associated with climate change by establishing environmental goals and standards and seeking business partners, including within our supply chain, that are committed to operating in ways that protect the environment or mitigate environmental impacts, we recognize that there are inherent climate-related risks wherever business is conducted. For example, as we noted above, the supply and price of coffee we purchase can also be affected by multiple factors in the producing countries, such as weather and water supply quality and availability, which factors may be caused by or exacerbated by climate change. We operate in 83 markets globally. While we believe this geographic diversity is likely to lessen the impact of individual climate change related events on our financial results, our properties and operations may nonetheless be vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change, which are predicted to increase the frequency and severity of weather events and other natural cycles such as wildfires and droughts. Such events have the potential to disrupt our operations, cause store closures, disrupt the business of our third-party suppliers and impact our customers, all of which may cause us to suffer losses and additional costs to maintain or resume operations. Risks Related to Competition • We face intense competition in each of our channels and markets, which could lead to reduced profitability. The specialty coffee market is intensely competitive, including with respect to product quality, innovation, service, convenience, such as delivery service and mobile ordering, and price, and we face significant and increasing competition in all of these areas in each of our channels and markets. Accordingly, we do not have leadership positions in all channels and markets. In the U.S., the ongoing focus by large competitors in the quick-service restaurant sector on selling high-quality specialty coffee beverages could lead to decreases in customer traffic to Starbucks ® stores and/or average value per transaction adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. Similarly, continued competition from well-established competitors, or competition from large new entrants or well-funded smaller companies, in our domestic and international markets could hinder growth and adversely affect our sales and results of operations in those markets. Many small competitors also continue to open coffee specialty stores in many of our markets across the world, which in the aggregate may also lead to significant decreases of customer traffic to our stores in those markets. Increased competition globally in packaged coffee and tea and single-serve and ready-to-drink coffee beverage markets, including from new and large entrants to this market, could adversely affect the profitability of the Channel Development segment. In addition, not all of our competitors may seek to establish environmental or sustainability goals at a comparable level to ours, which could result in lower supply chain or operating costs for our competitors. We may incur increased costs associated with reducing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions, reducing the use of plastic or imposing performance obligations on our suppliers that could increase financial obligations for us and our business partners and could affect our profitability. Additionally, if we are unable to respond to consumer demand for healthy beverages and foods, or our competitors respond more effectively, this could have a negative effect on our business. Furthermore, declines in general consumer demand for specialty coffee products for any reason, including due to consumer preference for other products, flattening demand for our products, changed customer daily routines or traffic to stores as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, or changed customer spending behaviors due to challenging economic conditions, could have a negative effect on our business. Risks Related to Operating a Global Business We are highly dependent on the financial performance of our North America operating segment. Our financial performance is highly dependent on our North America operating segment, which comprised approximately 72% of consolidated total net revenues in fiscal 2022. If the North America operating segment revenue trends slow or decline, especially in our U.S. market, our other segments may be unable to make up any significant shortfall and our business and financial results could be adversely affected. And because the North America segment is relatively mature and produces the 19 large majority of our operating cash flows, such a slowdown or decline could result in reduced cash flows for funding the expansion of our international businesses and other initiatives and for returning cash to shareholders. • We are increasingly dependent on the success of certain international markets in order to achieve our growth targets. Our future growth increasingly depends on the growth and sustained profitability of certain international markets. Some or all of our international market business units (“MBUs”), which we generally define by the countries in which they operate, may not be successful in their operations or in achieving expected growth, which ultimately requires achieving consistent, stable net revenues and earnings. The performance of these international operations may be adversely affected by economic downturns in one or more of the countries in which our large MBUs operate. A decline in performance of one or more of our significant international MBUs could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results. The International segment is a significant profit center driving our global returns, along with our North America segment. In particular, our China MBU contributes meaningfully to both consolidated and International net revenues and operating income. China is currently our fastest growing market, our second largest market overall and 100% company-owned. Due to the significance of our China market for our profit and growth, we are exposed to risks in China, including the risks mentioned elsewhere and the following: • the effects of current U.S.-China relations, including rounds of tariff increases and retaliations and increasing restrictive regulations, potential boycotts and increasing anti-Americanism; • escalating U.S.-China tension and increasing political sensitivities in China; • the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and related governmental regulations and restrictions on our operations in China, including China's “zero COVID” policy; • entry of new competitors to the specialty coffee market in China; • changes in economic conditions in China and potential negative effects to the growth of its middle class, wages, labor, inflation, discretionary spending and real estate and supply chain costs; • ongoing government regulatory reform, including relating to public health, food safety, tariffs and tax, sustainability and responses to climate change, which result in regulatory uncertainty as well as potential significant increases in compliance costs; and • food-safety related matters, including compliance with food-safety regulations and ability to ensure product quality and safety. Additionally, some factors that will be critical to the success of our international operations overall are different than those affecting our U.S. stores and licensees. Tastes naturally vary by region, and consumers in some MBUs may not embrace our products to the same extent as consumers in the U.S. or other international markets. Occupancy costs and store operating expenses can be higher internationally than in the U.S. due to higher rents for prime store locations or costs of compliance with country-specific regulatory requirements. Because many of our international operations are in an early phase of development, operating expenses as a percentage of related revenues are often higher compared to more developed operations. • We face risks as a global business that could adversely affect our financial performance. We operate in 83 markets globally. Our international operations are also subject to additional inherent risks of conducting business abroad, such as: • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, or requirements to transact in specific currencies; • changes or uncertainties in economic, legal, regulatory, social and political conditions in our markets, as well as negative effects on U.S. businesses due to increasing anti-American sentiment in certain markets; • interpretation and application of laws and regulations, including tax, tariffs, labor, merchandise, anti-bribery and privacy laws and regulations; • restrictive actions of foreign or U.S. governmental authorities affecting trade and foreign investment, especially during periods of heightened tension between the U.S. and such foreign governmental authorities, including protective measures such as export and customs duties and tariffs, government intervention favoring local competitors and restrictions on the level of foreign ownership; • import or other business licensing requirements; • the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights; • limitations on the repatriation of funds and foreign currency exchange restrictions due to current or new U.S. and international regulations; 20 • in developing economies, the growth rate in the portion of the population achieving sufficient levels of disposable income may not be as fast as we forecast; • difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign operations and supply chain logistics, including ensuring the consistency of product quality and service, due to governmental actions affecting supply chain logistics, distance, language and cultural differences, as well as challenges in recruiting and retaining high-quality employees in local markets; • local laws that make it more expensive and complex to negotiate with, retain or terminate employees; • local regulations, health guidelines and safety protocols related to the COVID-19 pandemic affecting our operations; and • delays in store openings for reasons beyond our control, competition with locally relevant competitors or a lack of desirable real estate locations available for lease at reasonable rates, any of which could keep us from meeting annual store opening targets and, in turn, negatively impact net revenues, operating income and earnings per share. Moreover, many of the foregoing risks are particularly acute in developing countries, which are important to our long-term growth prospects. Risks Related to Governmental and Regulatory Changes • Failure to comply with applicable laws and changing legal and regulatory requirements could harm our business and financial results. Our policies and procedures are designed to comply with all applicable laws, accounting and reporting requirements, tax rules and other regulations and requirements, including those imposed by the SEC, Nasdaq and foreign countries, as well as applicable trade, labor, healthcare, food and beverage, sanitation, safety, environmental, labeling, anti-bribery and corruption and merchandise laws. Such laws and regulations are complex and often subject to differing interpretations, which can lead to unintentional or unknown instances of non-compliance. Changes in applicable environmental laws and regulations, including increased or additional regulations and associated costs to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions, to discourage the use of plastic or to limit or impose additional costs on commercial water use, may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures, incremental investments and other financial obligations for us and our business partners, which could affect our profitability. Furthermore, due to the COVID‑19 pandemic, we are subject to additional domestic and foreign governmental regulations and health guidelines, as well as any other voluntary safety protocols. In addition, our business is subject to complex and rapidly evolving U.S. and international laws and regulations regarding data privacy and data protection, and companies are under increased regulatory scrutiny relating to these matters. The Federal Trade Commission and many state attorneys general are also interpreting federal and state consumer protection laws to impose standards for the online collection, use, dissemination and security of data. The interpretation and application of existing laws and regulations regarding data privacy and data protection are in flux and authorities around the world are considering a number of additional legislative and regulatory proposals in this area. Current and future data privacy and data protection laws and regulations (including the GDPR and the CCPA, discussed in more detail in this risk factors section, and other applicable international and U.S. privacy laws), or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may limit our ability to collect and use data, require us to otherwise modify our data processing practices and policies or result in the possibility of fines, litigation or orders, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The burdens imposed by these and other laws and regulations that may be enacted, or new interpretations of existing and future laws and regulations, may also require us to incur substantial costs in reaching compliance in a manner adverse to our business. The complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related costs of compliance are both increasing due to additional or changing legal and regulatory requirements, our ongoing expansion into new markets and new channels and the fact that foreign laws occasionally conflict with domestic laws. In addition to potential damage to our reputation and brand, failure by us or our business partners to comply with the various applicable laws and regulations, as well as changes in laws and regulations or the manner in which they are interpreted or applied, may result in litigation, civil and criminal liability, damages, fines and penalties, increased cost of regulatory compliance and restatements of our financial statements and have an adverse impact on our business and financial results.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

General Our fiscal year ends on the Sunday closest to September 30. All references to store counts, including data for new store openings, are reported net of related store closures, unless otherwise noted. Fiscal year 2022 included 52 weeks. Fiscal year 2021 included 53 weeks, with the 53rd week falling in the fourth fiscal quarter, and fiscal year 2020 included 52 weeks; comparable store sale percentages below are calculated excluding the 53rd week. The discussion of our financial condition and results of operations for the fiscal year ended September 27, 2020, included in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) can be found in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 3, 2021. Overview We have three reportable operating segments: 1) North America, which is inclusive of the U.S. and Canada; 2) International, which is inclusive of China, Japan, Asia Pacific, Europe, Middle East, Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean; and 3) Channel Development. Non-reportable operating segments and unallocated corporate expenses are reported within Corporate and Other. Our financial results and long-term growth model will continue to be driven by new store openings, comparable store sales and margin management. We believe these key operating metrics are useful to investors because management uses these metrics to assess the growth of our business and the effectiveness of our marketing and operational strategies. Throughout this MD&A, we commonly discuss the following key operating metrics: • New store openings and store count • Comparable store sales • Operating margin Starbucks results for fiscal 2022 demonstrate the resiliency and strength of our brand. Consolidated revenues increased 11% to $32.3 billion in fiscal 2022 compared to $29.1 billion in fiscal 2021, primarily driven by strength in our U.S. business and growth in our International segment excluding China, partially offset by the impact of the extra week in fiscal 2021 ($496 million) and unfavorable foreign currency translation. For both the North America segment and U.S. market, comparable store sales increased 12% for fiscal 2022 compared to an increase of 22% and 21% for the North America segment and the U.S. market, respectively, in fiscal 2021. Average ticket for the North America segment and the U.S. market grew 7% and 8%, respectively, primarily driven by strategic pricing and increased demand for food items in our U.S. market. The segment also experienced higher costs, primarily related to investments and growth in labor including enhanced store partner wages as well as increased spend on new partner training. Also contributing were inflationary pressures on commodities and our supply chain. In fiscal 2022, we announced our Reinvention Plan in the U.S. market to increase efficiency while elevating the partner and customer experience. We believe the investments in partner wages and training will increase retention and productivity while the acceleration of purpose-built store concepts and innovations in technologies will provide additional convenience and connection with our customers. For the International segment, comparable store sales decreased by 9% for fiscal 2022 compared to an increase of 16% in fiscal 2021, driven by comparable store sales decline of 24% in our China market. During the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2022, our China market experienced COVID-19 pandemic related restrictions in multiple cities that severely impacted customer mobility. Outside of China, strong growth in our major International markets, driven by product innovation and increasing digital capabilities, partially offset the unfavorability in our China market. Revenue for our Channel Development segment increased $250 million, or 16%, when compared with fiscal 2021, driven by higher product sales to and royalty revenue from the Global Coffee Alliance and growth in our global ready-to-drink business. Operating margin decreased 520 basis points to 44.3%, primarily due to a decline in our North American Coffee Partnership joint venture income due to inflationary pressures and supply chain constraints as well as business mix shift. Despite COVID-19 induced business interruptions, especially in our China market, we have seen the strength and resilience of our brand as well as strong customer demand across our portfolio. We expect inflationary pressures on commodities and supply chain to continue to a lesser extent in fiscal 2023, relative to the impact on our business and financial metrics, including operating margin, as compared to fiscal 2022. We anticipate that these should be offset by benefits from pricing decisions as well as from increased sales leverage and higher productivity driven by our Reinvention Plan. Absent significant and prolonged COVID-19 relapses or global economic disruptions, and based on the current trend of our business operations and our focused efforts on the Reinvention Plan, we are confident in the strength of our brand and strategy for sustainable, profitable growth over the long-term. 26 Financial Highlights • Total net revenues increased 11% to $32.3 billion in fiscal 2022 compared to $29.1 billion in fiscal 2021, inclusive of $576 million attributable to the extra week in fiscal 2021. • Consolidated operating income decreased to $4.6 billion in fiscal 2022 compared to $4.9 billion in fiscal 2021. Fiscal 2022 operating margin was 14.3% compared to 16.8% in fiscal 2021. Operating margin contraction of 250 basis points was primarily due to investments and growth in labor, including enhanced retail store partner wages (approximately 290 basis points) as well as increased spend on new partner training and support costs (approximately 80 basis points). Also contributing were inflationary pressures on commodities and our supply chain (approximately 270 basis points), sales deleverage related to COVID-19 pandemic related impacts in our China market (approximately 110 basis points), business mix shift (approximately 60 basis points) and lower government subsidies (approximately 60 basis points). These increases were partially offset by sales leverage across markets outside of China (approximately 390 basis points) and strategic pricing, primarily in North America (approximately 320 basis points). • Diluted earnings per share (“EPS”) for fiscal 2022 decreased to $2.83, compared to EPS of $3.54 in fiscal 2021. The decrease was primarily driven by lapping the prior year $0.56 gain, net of estimated taxes, on the divestiture of our South Korea joint venture and $0.10 related to the extra week in fiscal 2021. Also contributing were investments in labor and inflationary pressures on commodities and our supply chain, partially offset by growth in comparable store sales and lower restructuring costs. • Capital expenditures were $1.8 billion in fiscal 2022 and $1.5 billion in fiscal 2021. • We returned $6.3 billion to our shareholders in fiscal 2022 through share repurchases and dividends. We returned $2.1 billion in fiscal 2021 through dividends. In April 2022, we announced a temporary suspension of our share repurchase program to allow us to augment investments in our stores and partners. We resumed our share repurchase program in the first quarter of fiscal 2023. Acquisitions and Divestitures See , Acquisitions, Divestitures and Strategic Alliance, to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this 10-K for information regarding acquisitions and divestitures. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS — FISCAL 2022 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2021 Consolidated results of operations (in millions) : Revenues Total net revenues increased $3.2 billion, or 11%, over fiscal 2021, primarily due to higher revenues from company-operated stores ($2.0 billion). The growth in company-operated store revenue was driven by an 8% increase in comparable store sales ($1.8 billion) attributed to a 5% increase in average ticket and 2% increase in comparable transactions. Also contributing were the incremental revenues from 1,120 net new Starbucks company-operated store openings, or a 7% increase, over the past 12 months ($1.0 billion). Partially offsetting these increases was the impact of the extra week in fiscal 2021 ($496 million) and unfavorable foreign currency translation ($368 million). Licensed stores revenue increased $972 million, primarily driven by higher product and equipment sales to and royalty revenues from our licensees ($922 million) and the conversion of our Korea market from a joint venture to a fully licensed market in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021 ($187 million). Partially offsetting these increases were unfavorable foreign currency translation ($81 million) and the impact of the extra week in fiscal 2021 ($57 million). Other revenues increased $249 million, primarily due to higher product sales and royalty revenue in the Global Coffee Alliance ($216 million) and growth in our ready-to-drink business ($44 million). Partially offsetting these increases was the impact of the extra week in fiscal 2021 ($23 million). 27 Operating Expenses Product and distribution costs as a percentage of total net revenues increased 190 basis points, primarily due to higher supply chain costs due to inflationary pressures. Store operating expenses as a percentage of total net revenues increased 100 basis points. Store operating expenses as a percentage of company-operated store revenues increased 250 basis points, primarily due to investments and growth in labor, including enhanced retail store partner wages (approximately 320 basis points) as well as increased spend on new partner training and support costs (approximately 90 basis points). Also contributing were lower temporary government subsidies (approximately 70 basis points). These increases were partially offset by sales leverage. Other operating expenses increased $102 million, primarily due to lapping a change in estimate relating to a transaction cost accrual ($23 million), higher support costs for our growing North America and International licensed stores ($22 million), transaction costs associated with our Russia market exit ($20 million) and strategic investments in technology and other initiatives ($15 million). Depreciation and amortization expenses as a percentage of total net revenues decreased 50 basis points, primarily due to sales leverage. General and administrative expenses increased $99 million, primarily due to incremental investments in technology ($92 million), increased partner wages and benefits ($59 million) and higher support costs to address labor market conditions ($36 million). These increases were partially offset by lower performance-based compensation ($95 million). Restructuring and impairment expense s decreased $124 million, primarily due to lower costs incurred related to our Reinvention Plan in the current year compared to prior year's North America store portfolio optimization, including lower accelerated lease right-of-use asset amortization costs ($84 million) and asset impairment charges ($68 million), partially offset by higher professional fees and higher severance costs ($27 million). Income from equity investees decreased $151 million, primarily due to the conversion of our Korea market from a joint venture to a fully licensed market in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021 ($140 million) and lower income from our North American Coffee Partnership joint venture ($18 million). The combination of these changes resulted in an overall decrease in operating margin of 250 basis points in fiscal 2022 when compared to fiscal 2021. 28 Other Income and Expenses Net gain resulting from divestiture of certain operations decreased $865 million due to lapping the sale of our ownership interest in our South Korea joint venture in the prior year. Interest expense increased $13 million primarily due to additional interest incurred on long-term debt issued in February 2022. The effective tax rate for fiscal 2022 was 22.4% compared to 21.6% for fiscal 2021. The increase was due to lapping a prior year remeasurement of deferred tax assets due to an enacted foreign corporate rate change (approximately 130 basis points) and lapping the release of income tax reserves upon expiration of statute of limitations (approximately 70 basis points), partially offset by the release of valuation allowances recorded against deferred tax assets of a certain international jurisdiction (approximately 120 basis points). See , Income Taxes, for further discussion. The Inflation Reduction Act was enacted on August 16, 2022, and includes a new 15% minimum tax on “adjusted financial statement income” beginning with the Company’s fiscal year 2024, and a new 1% excise tax on stock repurchases after December 31, 2022. While these tax law changes have no immediate effect and are not expected to have a material impact on our future financial results, we will continue to evaluate its impact as further information becomes available. 29 Segment Information Results of operations by segment (in millions) : North America Revenues North America total net revenues for fiscal 2022 increased $2.9 billion, or 14%, primarily due to a 12% increase in comparable store sales ($2.2 billion) driven by a 7% increase in average ticket and a 5% increase in transaction. Also contributing to these increases were the performance of net new company-operated store openings over the past 12 months ($628 million) and higher product and equipment sales to and royalty revenues from our licensees ($487 million), primarily due to business recovery from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. These increases were partially offset by the impact of the extra week in fiscal 2021 ($427 million). Operating Margin North America operating income for fiscal 2022 increased 5% to $4.5 billion, compared to $4.3 billion in fiscal 2021. Operating margin decreased 160 basis points to 19.2%, primarily due to investments and growth in labor, including enhanced retail store partner wages (approximately 350 basis points) as well as increased spend on new partner training and support costs (approximately 120 basis points). Also contributing were inflationary pressures on commodities and our supply chain (approximately 350 basis points). These were partially offset by strategic pricing (approximately 400 basis points) and sales leverage. 30 International Revenues International total net revenues for fiscal 2022 increased $19 million, or 0.3%, primarily due to higher product sales to and royalty revenues from our licensees ($435 million), mainly due to continuing business improvement from the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, there were 765 net new Starbucks company-operated stores, or a 11% increase over the past 12 months ($406 million). Also contributing to the increase was the conversion of our Korea market from a joint venture to a fully licensed market in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021 ($187 million). These were partially offset by a 9% decline in comparable store sales ($459 million), driven by a 5% decrease in customer transactions and a 4% decrease in average ticket, primarily attributable to COVID-19 related restrictions in China and lapping the prior-year value-added-tax benefit in China, unfavorable foreign currency translation ($436 million) and the impact of the extra week in fiscal 2021 ($127 million). Operating Margin International operating income for fiscal 2022 decreased 33% to $833.2 million, compared to $1.2 billion in fiscal 2021. Operating margin decreased 600 basis points to 12.0%, primarily due to sales deleverage related to COVID-19 pandemic impacts in our China market (approximately 460 basis points), investments and growth in retail store partner wages and benefits (approximately 140 basis points), lower temporary government subsidies (approximately 100 basis points), higher commodity and supply chain costs due to inflationary pressures (approximately 90 basis points) and strategic initiatives (approximately 90 basis points). These decreases were partially offset by sales leverage across markets outside of China. 31 Channel Development Revenues Channel Development total net revenues for fiscal 2022 increased $250 million, or 16%, compared to fiscal 2021, primarily due to higher Global Coffee Alliance product sales and royalty revenue ($216 million) and growth in our ready-to-drink business ($44 million). These increases were partially offset by the impact of the extra week in fiscal 2021 ($21 million). Operating Margin Channel Development operating income for fiscal 2022 increased 4% to $817 million, compared to $789 million in fiscal 2021. Operating margin decreased 520 basis points to 44.3%, primarily due to a decline in our North American Coffee Partnership joint venture income due to inflationary pressures and supply chain constraints (approximately 340 basis points) and business mix shift (approximately 170 basis points). 32 Corporate and Other Corporate and Other primarily consists of our unallocated corporate expenses and Evolution Fresh. Unallocated corporate expenses include corporate administrative functions that support the operating segments but are not specifically attributable to or managed by any segment and are not included in the reported financial results of the operating segments. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022, we sold our Evolution Fresh brand and business. Corporate and Other operating loss increased to $1.5 billion for fiscal 2022, or 7%, compared to $1.4 billion in fiscal 2021. This increase was primarily driven by incremental investments in technology ($84 million), increased support costs to address labor market conditions ($36 million) and increased partner wages and benefits ($31 million). These increases were partially offset by lower performance-based compensation ($62 million). FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash and Investment Overview Our cash and investments were $3.5 billion and $6.9 billion as of October 2, 2022 and October 3, 2021, respectively. We actively manage our cash and investments in order to internally fund operating needs, make scheduled interest and principal payments on our borrowings, make acquisitions and return cash to shareholders through common stock cash dividend payments and share repurchases. Our investment portfolio primarily includes highly liquid available-for-sale securities, including corporate debt securities, government treasury securities (domestic and foreign) and commercial paper as well as principal-protected structured deposits. As of October 2, 2022, approximately $2.7 billion of cash and short-term investments were held in foreign subsidiaries. Borrowing capacity Credit Facilities and Commercial Paper Our total contractual borrowing capacity for general corporate purposes was $2.8 billion as of the end of fiscal 2022. Revolving Lines of Credit Our $3.0 billion unsecured 5-year revolving credit facility (the “2021 credit facility”), of which $150 million may be used for issuances of letters of credit, is currently set to mature on September 16, 2026. The 2021 credit facility is available for working capital, capital expenditures and other corporate purposes, including acquisitions and share repurchases. We have the option, subject to negotiation and agreement with the related banks, to increase the maximum commitment amount by an additional $1.0 billion. Borrowings under the credit facility will bear interest at a variable rate based on LIBOR, and, for U.S. dollar-denominated loans under certain circumstances, a Base Rate (as defined in the credit facility), in each case plus an applicable margin. The applicable margin is based on the Company’s long-term credit ratings assigned by Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s rating agencies. The 2021 credit facility contains alternative interest rate provisions specifying rate calculations to be used at such time LIBOR ceases to be available as a benchmark due to reference rate reform. The “Base Rate” of interest is the highest of (i) the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.500%, (ii) Bank of America’s prime rate, and (iii) the Eurocurrency Rate (as defined in the credit facility) plus 1.000%. As of October 2, 2022, we had no borrowings under the 2021 credit facility. Commercial Paper Under our commercial paper program, we may issue unsecured commercial paper notes up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of $3.0 billion, with individual maturities that may vary but not exceed 397 days from the date of issue. Amounts outstanding under the commercial paper program are required to be backstopped by available commitments under the 33 2021 credit facility discussed above. The proceeds from borrowings under our commercial paper program may be used for working capital needs, capital expenditures and other corporate purposes, including, but not limited to, business expansion, payment of cash dividends on our common stock and share repurchases. As of October 2, 2022, we had $175.0 million outstanding under our commercial paper program. Credit Facilities in Japan Additionally, we hold Japanese yen-denominated credit facilities which are available for working capital needs and capital expenditures within our Japanese market. • A ¥5 billion, or $34.6 million, facility is currently set to mature on December 31, 2022. Borrowings under the credit facility are subject to terms defined within the facility and will bear interest at a variable rate based on TIBOR plus an applicable margin of 0.400%. • A ¥10 billion, or $69.2 million, facility is currently set to mature on March 27, 2023. Borrowings under the credit facility are subject to terms defined within the facility and will bear interest at a variable rate based on TIBOR plus 0.350%. As of October 2, 2022, we had no borrowings outstanding under these credit facilities. See , Debt, to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this 10-K for details of the components of our long-term debt. Our ability to incur new liens and conduct sale and leaseback transactions on certain material properties is subject to compliance with terms of the indentures under which the long-term notes were issued. As of October 2, 2022, we were in compliance with all applicable covenants. Use of Cash We expect to use our available cash and investments, including, but not limited to, additional potential future borrowings under the credit facilities, commercial paper program and the issuance of debt to support and invest in our core businesses, including investing in new ways to serve our customers and supporting our store partners, repaying maturing debts, as well as returning cash to shareholders through common stock cash dividend payments and discretionary share repurchases and investing in new business opportunities related to our core and developing businesses. Further, we may use our available cash resources to make proportionate capital contributions to our investees. We may also seek strategic acquisitions to leverage existing capabilities and further build our business. Acquisitions may include increasing our ownership interests in our investees. Any decisions to increase such ownership interests will be driven by valuation and fit with our ownership strategy. We believe that net future cash flows generated from operations and existing cash and investments both domestically and internationally, combined with our ability to leverage our balance sheet through the issuance of debt, will be sufficient to finance capital requirements for our core businesses as well as shareholder distributions for at least the next 12 months. We are currently not aware of any trends or demands, commitments, events or uncertainties that will result in, or that are reasonably likely to result in, our liquidity increasing or decreasing in any material way that will impact our capital needs during or beyond the next 12 months. We regularly review our cash positions and our determination of partial indefinite reinvestment of foreign earnings. In the event we determine that all or another portion of such foreign earnings are no longer indefinitely reinvested, we may be subject to additional foreign withholding taxes and U.S. state income taxes, which could be material. We currently do not anticipate the need for repatriated funds to the U.S. to satisfy domestic liquidity needs. See , Income Taxes, for further discussion. During each of the first three quarters of fiscal 2021, we declared a cash dividend to shareholders of $0.45 per share. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021, and for each of the first three quarters of fiscal 2022, we declared a cash dividend of $0.49 per share. Dividends are generally paid in the quarter following the declaration date. Cash returned to shareholders through dividends in fiscal 2022 and 2021 totaled $2.3 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022, we declared a cash dividend of $0.53 per share to be paid on November 25, 2022, with an expected payout of approximately $608.3 million. During the first quarter of fiscal 2022, we resumed our share repurchase program which had been temporarily suspended in March 2020. During the fiscal year ended October 2, 2022, we repurchased 36.3 million shares of common stock for $4.0 billion on the open market. On March 15, 2022, we announced that our Board authorized the repurchase of up to an additional 40 million shares under our ongoing share repurchase program. On April 4, 2022, we announced a temporary suspension of our share repurchase program to allow us to augment investments in our stores and partners. Repurchases pursuant to this program were last made on April 1, 2022. As of October 2, 2022, 52.6 million shares remained available for repurchase under current authorizations. We have resumed our share repurchase program in the first quarter of fiscal 2023. 34 Other than operating expenses, cash requirements for fiscal 2023 are expected to consist primarily of capital expenditures for investments in our new and existing stores, our supply chain and corporate facilities. Total capital expenditures for fiscal 2023 are expected to be approximately $2.5 billion. The following table summarizes current and long-term material cash requirements as of October 2, 2022, which we expect to fund primarily with operating cash flows ( in millions ): (1) Amounts include direct lease obligations, excluding any taxes, insurance and other related expenses. (2) Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on Starbucks and that specify all significant terms. Green coffee purchase commitments comprise 99% of total purchase obligations. (3) Other obligations include other long-term liabilities primarily consisting of long-term income taxes payable, asset retirement obligations and equity investment capital commitments. Cash Flows Cash provided by operating activities was $4.4 billion for fiscal 2022, compared to $6.0 billion for fiscal 2021. The change was primarily due to lower net earnings and an increase in inventory purchases and timing of income tax payments. Cash used in investing activities totaled $2.1 billion for fiscal 2022, compared to $0.3 billion for fiscal 2021. The change was primarily driven by lapping the net proceeds from the divestiture of our ownership interest in our South Korea joint venture and an increase in spend on capital expenditures. Cash used in financing activities for fiscal 2022 totaled $5.6 billion, compared to cash provided by financing activities of $3.7 billion for fiscal 2021. The change was primarily due to resuming our share repurchase program, partially offset by net proceeds from issuance of long-term debt. COMMODITY PRICES, AVAILABILITY AND GENERAL RISK CONDITIONS Commodity price risk represents Starbucks primary market risk, generated by our purchases of green coffee and dairy products, among other items. We purchase, roast and sell high-quality arabica coffee and related products and risk arises from the price volatility of green coffee. In addition to coffee, we also purchase significant amounts of dairy products to support the needs of our company-operated stores. The price and availability of these commodities directly impacts our results of operations, and we expect commodity prices, particularly coffee, to impact future results of operations. For additional details see Product Supply in , as well as Risk Factors in of this 10-K. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Market risk is defined as the risk of losses due to changes in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, equity security prices and interest rates. We manage our exposure to various market-based risks according to a market price risk management policy. Under this policy, market-based risks are quantified and evaluated for potential mitigation strategies, such as entering into hedging transactions. The market price risk management policy governs how hedging instruments may be used to mitigate risk. Risk limits are set annually and speculative trading activities are prohibited. We also monitor and limit the amount of associated counterparty credit risk, which we consider to be low. We use interest rate swap agreements and treasury locks to primarily hedge against changes in benchmark interest rates related to anticipated debt issuances. We also use cross-currency swaps and foreign exchange debt instruments to hedge against changes in the fair value of our fixed-rate debt and foreign exchange exposure of net investments in Japan. Excluding interest rate hedging instruments, cross currency swaps and foreign currency debt, hedging instruments generally do not have maturities in excess of three years. Refer to , Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Estimates, and , Derivative Financial Instruments, to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this 10-K for further discussion of our hedging instruments. 35 The sensitivity analyses disclosed below provide only a limited, point-in-time view of the market risk of the financial instruments discussed. The actual impact of the respective underlying rates and price changes on the financial instruments may differ significantly from those shown in the sensitivity analyses. Commodity Price Risk We purchase commodity inputs, primarily coffee, dairy products, diesel, cocoa, sugar and other commodities, that are used in our operations and are subject to price fluctuations that impact our financial results. We use a combination of pricing features embedded within supply contracts, such as fixed-price and price-to-be-fixed contracts for coffee purchases, and financial derivatives to manage our commodity price risk exposure. The following table summarizes the potential impact as of October 2, 2022 to Starbucks future net earnings and other comprehensive income (“OCI”) from changes in commodity prices. The information provided below relates only to the hedging instruments and does not represent the corresponding changes in the underlying hedged items (in millions) : Foreign Currency Exchange Risk The majority of our revenue, expense and capital purchasing activities are transacted in U.S. dollars. However, because a portion of our operations consists of activities outside of the U.S., we have transactions in other currencies, primarily the Chinese renminbi, Japanese yen, Canadian dollar, British pound, South Korean won and euro. To reduce cash flow volatility from foreign currency fluctuations, we enter into derivative instruments to hedge portions of cash flows of anticipated intercompany royalty payments, inventory purchases, intercompany borrowing and lending activities and certain other transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity that enters into the arrangements, as well as the translation risk of certain balance sheet items. The volatility in the foreign exchange market may lead to significant fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates and adversely impact our financial results in the case of weakening foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. The following table summarizes the potential impact as of October 2, 2022 to Starbucks future net earnings and other comprehensive income from changes in the fair value of these derivative financial instruments due to a change in the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to foreign exchange rates. The information provided below relates only to the hedging instruments and does not represent the corresponding changes in the underlying hedged items ( in millions ): Equity Security Price Risk We have minimal exposure to price fluctuations on equity mutual funds and equity exchange-traded funds within our marketable equity securities portfolio. Marketable equity securities are recorded at fair value and approximates a portion of our liability under our Management Deferred Compensation Plan (“MDCP”). Gains and losses from the portfolio and the change in our MDCP liability are recorded in our consolidated statements of earnings. We performed a sensitivity analysis based on a 10% change in the underlying equity prices of our investments as of October 2, 2022 and determined that such a change would not have a significant impact on the fair value of these instruments. 36 Interest Rate Risk Long-term Debt We utilize short-term and long-term financing and may use interest rate hedges to manage our overall interest expense related to our existing fixed-rate debt, as well as to hedge the variability in cash flows due to changes in benchmark interest rates related to anticipated debt issuances. See , Derivative Financial Instruments and , Debt, to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this 10-K for further discussion of our interest rate hedge agreements and details of the components of our long-term debt, respectively, as of October 2, 2022. The following table summarizes the impact of a change in interest rates as of October 2, 2022 on the fair value of Starbucks debt (in millions) : (1) Amount disclosed is net of $28 million change in the fair value of our designated interest rate swap. Refer to , Derivative Financial Instruments, for additional information on our interest rate swap designated as a fair value hedge. Available-for-Sale Debt Securities Our available-for-sale securities comprise a diversified portfolio consisting mainly of investment-grade debt securities. The primary objective of these investments is to preserve capital and liquidity. Available-for-sale securities are recorded on the consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. We do not hedge the interest rate exposure on our investments. We performed a sensitivity analysis based on a 100 basis point change in the underlying interest rate of our available-for-sale securities as of October 2, 2022 and determined that such a change would not have a significant impact on the fair value of these instruments. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Critical accounting estimates are those that management believes are the most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain, especially in light of the current economic environment due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Judgments and uncertainties may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. Our significant accounting estimates are discussed in additional detail in , Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Estimates, to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this 10-K. We consider financial reporting and disclosure practices and accounting policies quarterly to ensure that they provide accurate and transparent information relative to the current economic and business environment. During the past five fiscal years, we have not made any material changes to the accounting methodologies used to assess the areas discussed below, unless noted otherwise. We believe that our significant accounting estimates involve a higher degree of judgment and/or complexity for the reasons discussed below: 37 Property, Plant and Equipment and Other Finite-Lived Assets We evaluate property, plant and equipment, operating lease right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and other finite-lived assets for impairment when facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying values of such assets may not be recoverable. When evaluating for impairment, we first compare the carrying value of the asset to the asset’s estimated future undiscounted cash flows. If the estimated undiscounted future cash flows are less than the carrying value of the asset, we determine if we have an impairment loss by comparing the carrying value of the asset to the asset's estimated fair value and recognize an impairment charge when the asset’s carrying value exceeds its estimated fair value. The adjusted carrying amount of the asset becomes its new cost basis and is depreciated over the asset's remaining useful life. Long-lived assets are grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. For company-operated store assets, the impairment test is performed at the individual store asset group level, which is inclusive of property, plant and equipment and lease ROU assets. The fair value of a store’s assets is estimated using a discounted cash flow model. For other long-lived assets, fair value is determined using an approach that is appropriate based on the relevant facts and circumstances, which may include discounted cash flows, comparable transactions or comparable company analyses. Our impairment calculations contain uncertainties because they require management to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate future cash flows and asset fair values. Key assumptions used in estimating future cash flows and asset fair values include projected revenue growth and operating expenses, as well as forecasting asset useful lives and selecting an appropriate discount rate. For company-operated stores, estimates of revenue growth and operating expenses are based on internal projections and consider the store’s historical performance, the local market economics and the business environment impacting the store’s performance. The discount rate is selected based on what we believe a buyer would assume when determining a purchase price for the store. The fair value of a store’s ROU asset is estimated considering what a market participant would pay to lease the asset for its highest and best use. These estimates are subjective and our ability to realize future cash flows and asset fair values is affected by factors such as ongoing maintenance and improvement of the assets, changes in economic conditions and changes in operating performance. In fiscal 2022, we announced our Reinvention Plan in the U.S. market to increase efficiency while elevating the partner and customer experience. As a result of the restructuring efforts in connection with the Reinvention Plan, we recorded an immaterial impairment charge on our consolidated statements of earnings during the fiscal year ended October 2, 2022. Future impairment charges attributed to our Reinvention Plan are not expected to be material. In fiscal 2021, we substantially completed our plan to reposition our North America store portfolio, primarily in dense metropolitan markets by pursuing strategic store closures and focusing on new store formats that better cater to changing customer tastes and preferences. During fiscal year 2021, we recorded approximately $155.4 million to restructuring and impairments on our consolidated statements of earnings. These totals included $53.1 million related to disposal and impairment of company-operated store assets and $89.5 million primarily associated with accelerated amortization of ROU lease assets and other lease costs due to store closures prior to the end of contractual lease terms. As this restructuring plan was substantially completed in fiscal 2021, we did not recognize any material restructuring and impairment amounts related to this plan during the fiscal year ended October 2, 2022. Asset impairment charges are discussed in , Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Estimates, to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this 10-K. Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets We evaluate goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually during our third fiscal quarter, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate impairment may exist. When evaluating these assets for impairment, we may first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that a reporting unit is impaired. If we do not perform a qualitative assessment, or if we determine that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, we calculate the estimated fair value of the reporting unit using discounted cash flows or a combination of discounted cash flow and market approaches. When assessing goodwill for impairment, our decision to perform a qualitative impairment assessment for an individual reporting unit is influenced by a number of factors, inclusive of the carrying value of the reporting unit’s goodwill, the significance of the excess of the reporting unit’s estimated fair value over carrying value at the last quantitative assessment date, the amount of time in between quantitative fair value assessments and the date of acquisition. If we perform a quantitative assessment of an individual reporting unit’s goodwill, our impairment calculations contain uncertainties because they require management to make assumptions and to apply judgment when estimating future cash flows and asset fair values, including projected revenue growth and operating expenses related to existing businesses, product innovation and new store concepts, as well as utilizing valuation multiples of similar publicly traded companies and selecting an appropriate discount rate. Estimates of revenue growth and operating expenses are based on internal projections considering the reporting unit’s past performance 38 and forecasted growth, including assumptions regarding business recovery post COVID-19, strategic initiatives, local market economics and the local business environment impacting the reporting unit’s performance. The discount rate is selected based on the estimated cost of capital for a market participant to operate the reporting unit in the region. These estimates, as well as the selection of comparable companies and valuation multiples used in the market approaches are highly subjective, and our ability to realize the future cash flows used in our fair value calculations is affected by factors such as the success of strategic initiatives, changes in economic conditions, changes in our operating performance and changes in our business strategies, including retail initiatives and international expansion. Our goodwill impairment assessments were not significantly altered as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. We continue to believe the fair value of each of our reporting units is significantly in excess of its carrying value, and absent a sustained multi-year global decline in our business in key markets such as the U.S. and China, we do not anticipate incurring significant goodwill impairment in the next 12 months. Our fiscal 2022 annual goodwill impairment testing, which was completed in the third fiscal quarter, resulted in an estimated fair value of our reporting units where a quantitative assessment was performed, was in excess of carrying value of approximately $95 billion for the business units where a quantitative analysis on impairment was performed. When assessing indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, where we perform a qualitative assessment, we evaluate if changes in events or circumstances have occurred that indicate that impairment may exist. If we do not perform a qualitative impairment assessment or if changes in events and circumstances indicate that a quantitative assessment should be performed, management is required to calculate the fair value of the intangible asset group. The fair value calculation includes estimates of revenue growth, which are based on past performance and internal projections for the intangible asset group’s forecasted growth, including assumptions regarding business recovery post COVID-19, and royalty rates, which are adjusted for our particular facts and circumstances. The discount rate is selected based on the estimated cost of capital that reflects the risk profile of the related business. These estimates are highly subjective, and our ability to achieve the forecasted cash flows used in our fair value calculations is affected by factors such as the success of strategic initiatives, changes in economic conditions, changes in our operating performance and changes in our business strategies, including retail initiatives and international expansion. We do not anticipate recording significant impairment charges in the next 12 months. Definite-lived intangible asset impairment charges are discussed in , Other Intangible Assets and Goodwill, to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this 10-K. Income Taxes We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the respective tax bases of our assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using current enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which we expect the temporary differences to reverse. We routinely evaluate the likelihood of realizing the benefit of our deferred tax assets and may record a valuation allowance if, based on all available evidence, we determine that some portion of the tax benefit will not be realized. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets within the jurisdiction from which they arise, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax-planning strategies and results of operations. In projecting future taxable income, we consider historical results and incorporate assumptions about the amount of future state, federal and foreign pre-tax operating income adjusted for items that do not have tax consequences. Our assumptions regarding future taxable income are consistent with the plans and estimates we use to manage our underlying businesses. In evaluating the objective evidence that historical results provide, we consider three years of cumulative operating income/(loss). In addition, our income tax returns are periodically audited by domestic and foreign tax authorities. These audits include review of our tax filing positions, such as the timing and amount of deductions taken and the allocation of income between tax jurisdictions. We evaluate our exposures associated with our various tax filing positions and recognize a tax benefit only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination by the relevant taxing authorities, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of our position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. For uncertain tax positions that do not meet this threshold, we record a related liability. We adjust our unrecognized tax benefit liability and income tax expense in the period in which the uncertain tax position is effectively settled, the statute of limitations expires for the relevant taxing authority to examine the tax position or when new information becomes available. As discussed in , Income Taxes, to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this 10-K, we do not expect a significant amount of the Company’s gross unrecognized tax benefits to be recognized by the end of fiscal 2023 for reasons such as a lapse of the statute of limitations or resolution of examinations with tax authorities . We have generated income in certain foreign jurisdictions that may be subject to additional foreign withholding taxes and U.S. state income taxes. We regularly review our plans for reinvestment or repatriation of unremitted foreign earnings. The possibility exists that foreign earnings declared as indefinitely reinvested may be repatriated as our plans are based on our estimated working and other capital needs in jurisdictions where our earnings are generated. While we do not expect to 39 repatriate cash to the U.S. to satisfy domestic liquidity needs, if these amounts were distributed to the U.S., in the form of dividends or otherwise, we may be subject to additional foreign withholding taxes and U.S. state income taxes, which could be material. Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits reflect management’s best assessment of estimated current and future taxes to be paid. Deferred tax asset valuation allowances and our liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits require significant management judgment regarding applicable statutes and their related interpretation, the status of various income tax audits and our particular facts and circumstances. Although we believe that the judgments and estimates discussed herein are reasonable, actual results, including forecasted business performance, could differ, and we may be exposed to losses or gains that could be material. To the extent we prevail in matters for which a liability has been established or are required to pay amounts in excess of our established liability, our effective income tax rate in a given financial statement period could be materially affected. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS See , Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Estimates, to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this 10-K for a detailed description of recent accounting pronouncements.