********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

We face a variety of risks that may affect our operations, financial results, or stock price and many of those risks are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. The following discussion addresses those risks that management believes are the most significant, although there may be other risks that could arise, or may prove to be more significant than expected, that may affect our operations or financial results. For a discussion of our risk management governance and processes, including operational risk, compliance risk, credit risk, market risk, and liquidity risk, see Risk Management and Capital Management in Part II – Item 7. For additional information regarding cybersecurity risk, see Item 1C. Cybersecurity. Economic and Market Risks Developments in the business, economic, and geopolitical environment could negatively impact our business. Our business can be adversely affected by the general environment – economic, corporate, securities market, regulatory, and geopolitical developments all play a role in client asset valuations, trading activity, interest rates, and overall investor engagement, and are outside of our control. Deterioration in the housing and credit markets and decreases in securities valuations negatively impact our results of operations and capital resources. The monetary policies of the Federal Reserve, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States, have a significant effect on our operating results. Actions taken by the Federal Reserve, including changes in its target funds rate and its own balance sheet management, are difficu lt to predict and can affect our financial results, including net interest revenue and bank deposit account fees. These policies can have implications for clients’ allocation to cash as we experienced in 2022 and 2023, and higher or lower client cash balances have an impact on our capital requirements, as well as liquidity implications if such changes in allocation are sudden. Investor sentiment and market and trading dynamics can affect client preferences and security selection, and can impact transactions and asset-based revenues. - 12 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION A significant change in client cash allocations could negatively impact our income. We rely heavily on client cash balances to generate revenue. Cash awaiting investment in a portion of our client brokerage accounts is swept to our banking subsidiaries and those bank deposits are then used to extend loans to clients and purchase investment securities. We also sweep a portion of such cash to the TD Depository Institutions pursuant to the 2023 IDA agreement, through which we earn bank deposit account fees. A significant reduction in our clients’ allocation to cash, a change in the allocation of that cash, or a transfer of cash away from the Company, would likely reduce our income. As a result of the rapid increases in short-term interest rates in 2022 and 2023, the Company saw a significant decrease in clients’ asset allocation to sweep cash and greater client investment in higher-yielding alternatives at Schwab such as fixed income investments and proprietary purchased money market funds. To help facilitate these changes in client cash allocations, the Company has utilized higher-cost supplemental funding sources, which has negatively impacted the Company’s net income. Significant interest rate changes could affect our profitability. The direction and level of interest rates are important factors in our earnings. A decline in interest rates may have a negative impact on our net interest revenue and our bank deposit account fee revenue. The Company’s interest-earning assets include significant holdings of investment securities, which include fixed- and floating-rate debt securities, including substantial holdings of mortgage-backed securities, as well as mortgages. The Company could be adversely affected by a decline in interest rates if the rates that the Company earns on interest-earning assets decline more than the rates that the Company pays on its funding sources, or if prepayment rates increase on the mortgages and mortgage-backed securities that the Company holds. A low interest rate environment may also have a negative impact on our asset management and administration fee revenues when we have to waive a portion of our management fees, as we experienced in 2020 and 2021, for certain Schwab-sponsored money market mutual funds in order to continue providing a positive return to clients. A decline in interest rates may also negatively impact our bank deposit account fee revenue, which is earned primarily pursuant to the 2023 IDA agreement. A rise in interest rates may cause our funding costs to increase if market conditions or the competitive environment induces us to raise our interest rates to avoid losing deposits, or replace deposits with higher-cost funding sources without offsetting increases in yields on interest-earning assets, which can reduce the benefit of higher market interest rates to our net interest revenue, as we experienced in 2022 and 2023. The rapid increases in market interest rates recently experienced have also contributed to increased unrealized losses on our investment securities portfolios. Increased unrealized losses on investment securities or other assets on our balance sheet can reduce market or client confidence in us, which could limit our ability to attract new client assets and accounts or result in the transfer of client assets and accounts from the Company. A rise in interest rates may also reduce our bank deposit account fee revenue, as clients may reallocate assets out of bank deposit account balances and into higher-yielding investment alternatives, as we experienced in 2022 and 2023. The 2023 IDA agreement involves certain commitments, including the maintenance of prescribed minimum and maximum IDA balances, that limit our ability to respond to changes in interest rates and may impact our profitability and bank deposit account fee revenue. The bank deposit account fee revenue that we earn related to the IDA agreement may be less than the net interest revenue that we could have earned if the deposit balances were swept to our banking subsidiaries rather than the TD Depository Institutions. When we are permitted to reduce the IDA balances, we can only move the balances to our banking subsidiaries if we have sufficient capital. Problems encountered by other financial institutions and responsive measures to manage such problems could adversely affect financial markets generally, could have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations, and have indirect adverse effects on us. Concerns regarding the soundness or creditworthiness of other financial institutions can cause substantial disruption within the financial markets and have negative impacts for us and our industry, including reductions in availability of liquidity, higher borrowing costs, and higher costs of capital. Such concerns regarding one or more financial institutions may also advance public concerns regarding Schwab or the financial services industry more broadly, which could harm our reputation and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, even if underlying matters impacting other financial institutions are of limited or no direct applicability to us. Financial institutions are interrelated through trading, clearing, or other relationships, and, as a result, concerns about the financial condition of one or more institutions could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses, or defaults by other institutions. This risk may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as broker-dealers, banks, clearing houses, securities exchanges, market makers, and others, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore, could adversely affect us. - 13 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Events affecting the financial services industry may also result in potentially adverse changes to laws or regulations governing banks and savings and loan holding companies or result in the imposition of restrictions through supervisory or enforcement activities, including higher capital or liquidity requirements, which could have a material impact on our business. Following the failure of several U.S. banks in 2023, the U.S. federal banking agencies proposed rules that would significantly impact our regulatory capital requirements, including requiring us to include AOCI in regulatory capital, as well as rules that would require minimum levels of eligible long-term debt at CSC and our banking subsidiaries. As a result of increased regulatory expectations regarding capital requirements applicable to the Company, we have been taking, and continue to take, measures to increase our capital, including the cessation of share repurchases. In addition, the cost of resolving the recent bank failures has resulted in increased FDIC costs and may prompt the FDIC to further increase its premiums or to issue additional special assessments, which could have a material negative impact on our profitability and our business. Liquidity Risk A significant decrease in our liquidity could negatively affect our business as well as reduce client confidence in us. Maintaining adequate liquidity is crucial to our business operations, including transaction settlement, custody requirements, and lending commitments, among other liquidity needs. We meet our liquidity needs primarily from working capital and cash generated by client activity as well as external financing. Fluctuations in client cash or deposit balances, as well as market conditions or changes in regulatory treatment of client deposits, may affect our ability to meet our liquidity needs. A reduction in our liquidity position could reduce client confidence in us, which could result in the transfer out of client assets and accounts, or could cause us to fail to satisfy our liquidity requirements, including the LCR. In addition, if our broker-dealer or depository institution subsidiaries fail to meet regulatory capital guidelines, or if a depository institution subsidiary is unable to obtain regulatory approval, when required, to declare a dividend, regulators could limit the subsidiaries’ ability to upstream funds to CSC or limit their operations, which could reduce CSC’s liquidity and adversely affect its ability to repay debt, pay dividends on CSC’s preferred stock and common stock, repurchase its shares, or redeem its preferred stock. In addition, CSC may need to provide additional funding to such subsidiaries. Factors which may adversely affect our liquidity position include CS&Co and TDAC having temporary liquidity demands due to timing differences between brokerage transaction settlements and the availability of segregated cash balances, fluctuations in cash held in banking or brokerage client accounts, such as the significant client reallocation from sweep cash to higher-yielding investments that we experienced in 2022 and 2023 in response to rapid interest rate increases, a dramatic increase in our lending activities (including margin, mortgage-related, and personal lending), increased capital requirements, changes in regulatory guidance or interpretations, other regulatory changes, or a loss of market or client confidence in us resulting in unanticipated withdrawals of client funds. As a member firm of securities and derivatives clearing houses, we are required to deposit cash, stock and/or government securities for margin requirements and to clearing funds. The margin requirements may fluctuate significantly from time to time based upon the nature and size of clients’ trading activity and market volatility, and member firms like us have been required to deposit additional funds. Clearing houses could also require additional funds from member firms if a clearing member defaults on its obligations to the clearing house in an amount larger than its own margin and clearing fund deposits. When available cash is not sufficient for our liquidity needs, we may be required to seek external financing. During periods of disruptions in the credit and capital markets, potential sources of external financing could be reduced, and borrowing costs could increase. Although CSC, CS&Co, and TDAC maintain uncommitted, unsecured bank credit lines and CSC has a commercial paper issuance program, as well as a universal shelf registration statement filed with the SEC which can be used to sell securities, financing may not be available on acceptable terms or at all due to market conditions or disruptions in the credit markets. In addition, a downgrade in the Company’s credit ratings could increase its borrowing costs and limit its access to the capital markets. When short-term interest rates rapidly increase, as they did in 2022 and 2023, client movement of certain cash balances out of our sweep features and into higher-yielding alternatives generally increases. When these outflows outpace excess cash on hand and cash generated by maturities and paydowns on our investment and loan portfolios, as they did in 2022 and 2023, we may need to rely on temporary supplemental funding, such as advances under Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) secured credit facilities, borrowings under repurchase agreements with external financial institutions, issuances of brokered certificates of deposit (CDs), or other sources of funding, which have higher costs and could be subject to limitations on availability. In addition, to access new FHLB advances or roll over existing advances, our banking subsidiaries must maintain positive tangible capital, as defined by the Federal Housing Finance Agency. Larger unrealized losses on our available for sale (AFS) portfolio due to higher market interest rates negatively impact our capital position inclusive of AOCI, including our tangible capital. - 14 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Compliance Risks Extensive regulatory supervision of our businesses may subject us to significant penalties or limitations on business activities. As a participant in the securities, banking, and financial services industries, we are subject to extensive regulation under federal, state, and foreign laws by governmental agencies, supervisory authorities and SROs. The costs and uncertainty related to complying with such regulations continue to increase. These regulations affect our business operations and impose capital, client prote ction, and market conduct requirements on us as well as restrictions on the activities that we are allowed to conduct. We become subject to increasing regulatory scrutiny as we grow. Regulators have broad discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, and could prevent us from pursuing our business strategy. Regulators could also limit our ability to grow, including adding assets, launching new products, making acquisitions, and undertaking strategic investments. Our banking regulators could require CSC and/or our banking subsidiaries to hold more capital, increase liquidity, or limit their ability to pay dividends or CSC’s ability to repurchase or redeem shares. Despite our efforts to comply with applicable legal requirements, there are a number of risks, particularly in areas where applicable laws or regulations may be unclear or where regulators could revise their previous guidance. Any enforcement actions or other proceedings brought by our regulators against us or our affiliates, officers or employees could result in fines, penalties, cease and desist orders, enforcement actions, suspension, disqualification or expulsion, or other disciplinary sanctions, including limitations on our business activities, any of which could harm our reputation and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. While we maintain systems and procedures designed to ensure that we comply with applicable laws and regulations, violations could occur. In addition, some legal/regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for noncompliance even though the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even though systems and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violations were in place at the time. There may be other negative consequences resulting from a finding of noncompliance, including restrictions on certain activities. Such a finding may also damage our reputation and our relationships with our regulators and could restrict the ability of institutional investment managers to invest in our securities. Legislation or changes in rules and regulations could negatively affect our business and financial results. New legislation, rules, regulations and guidance, or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing federal, state, foreign and SRO rules, regulations and guidance, including changes relating to mutual funds, money market funds, standards of conduct with clients, conflicts of interest, regulatory treatment of deposit accounts, CRA, changes in required minimum capital and capital structure, and changes in equity market structure, including rules relating to order routing and order-related revenues, may directly affect our operations and profitability or our specific business lines. Recently, the SEC has proposed or adopted a number of new rules, and these new or proposed rules involve sweeping changes that could require significant shifts in industry operations and practices, thereby increasing uncertainty for markets and investors. The U.S. federal banking agencies have recently proposed rules regarding regulatory capital and long-term debt, and compliance with these proposed rules may result in increased costs and reduce our net income. In addition, the U.S. Department of Labor recently proposed rules to significantly broaden the definition of “fiduciary” under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, which, among other requirements, would subject broker-dealers who provide non-discretionary investment advice to retirement plans to a “best interest” standard. Our profitability could also be affected by rules and regulations that impact the business and financial communities generally, including changes to the laws governing taxation, electronic commerce, client privacy and security of client data. In addition, the rules and regulations could result in limitations on the lines of business we conduct, modifications to our business practices, more stringent capital and liquidity requirements, increased deposit insurance assessments or additional costs and could limit our ability to return capital to stockholders. These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make necessary changes to our compliance, risk management, treasury, and operations functions. Failure to meet capital adequacy and liquidity guidelines could affect our financial condition. CSC, together with its banking, broker-dealer, and FCM/FDM subsidiaries, must meet certain capital and liquidity standards, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about the adequacy of our capital and our internal assessment of our capital needs. The Uniform Net Capital Rule limits the ability of our broker-dealer entities to transfer capital to CSC and other affiliates. New regulatory capital, liquidity, capital planning, and stress testing requirements may limit or otherwise restrict how we utilize our capital, including paying dividends, stock repurchases, and redemptions, and may require us to increase our capital and/or liquidity or to limit our growth. Failure by either CSC or its banking subsidiaries to meet minimum capital requirements could - 15 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION result in certain mandatory and additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a negative impact on us. In addition, failure by CSC or our banking subsidiaries to maintain a sufficient amount of capital to satisfy their stress capital buffer (CSC) or capital conservation buffer (banking subsidiaries) and countercyclical capital buffer requirements would result in restrictions on our ability to make capital distributions and discretionary cash bonus payments to executive officers. Any requirement that we increase our regulatory capital, replace certain capital instruments which presently qualify as Tier 1 Capital, or increase regulatory capital ratios or liquidity, could require us to liquidate assets, deleverage or otherwise change our business and/or investment plans, which may adversely affect our financial results. Issuing additional common stock would dilute the ownership of existing stockholders. CSC is subject to the CCAR process, which requires submission of an annual capital plan, and determination of CSC’s stress capital buffer. The plan must include a description of all planned capital actions, including dividends or stock repurchases, over a nine-quarter planning horizon beginning with the first quarter of the calendar year the capital plan is submitted. CSC’s risk-based capital ratios must exceed the regulatory minimum plus the stress capital buffer. The stress capital buffer could make us subject to progressively more stringent constraints on capital actions if we approach our minimum ratios. This could lead to restrictions on our ability to pay or increase dividends or otherwise return capital to stockholders. If the average of CSC’s total consolidated assets for four consecutive calendar quarters reaches $700 billion, or if the average of cross-jurisdictional activity for four consecutive calendar quarters reaches $75 billion, CSC will become subject to more stringent Category II requirements, including annual stress testing, the advanced approaches framework, and the inability to opt out of including AOCI in regulatory capital calculations. At December 31, 2023, CSC had approximately $493 billion in total assets and cross-jurisdictional activity of approximately $25 billion. See also Part II – Item 7 – Current Regulatory and Other Developments for discussion of regulatory proposals that could, among other things, require the Company to include AOCI in its regulatory capital calculations. We are subject to litigation and regulatory investigations and proceedings and may not be successful in defending against claims or proceedings. The financial services industry faces significant litigation and regulatory risks. We are subject to claims and lawsuits in the ordinary course of business, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, some of which include claims for substantial or unspecified damages. We are also the subject of inquiries, investigations, and proceedings by regulatory and other governmental agencies. Litigation and arbitration claims include those brought by our clients and the clients of third-party advisors whose assets are custodied with us. Claims from clients of third-party advisors may allege losses due to investment decisions made by the third-party advisors or the advisors’ misconduct. Litigation claims also include claims from third parties alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights (e.g., patents). Such litigation can require the expenditure of significant company resources. If we were found to have infringed on a third-party patent, or other intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial damages, and in some circumstances could be enjoined from using certain technology, or providing certain products or services. Actions brought against us may result in settlements, awards, injunctions, fines, penalties or other results adverse to us, including reputational harm. Even if we are successful in defending against these actions, the defense of such matters may result in us incurring significant expenses. We may also determine that it is in the Company’s best interests to settle a matter, such as to avoid protracted litigation, even though the Company may have strong defenses. A substantial judgment, settlement, fine, or penalty could be material to our operating results or cash flows for a particular future period, depending on our results for that period. In market downturns and periods of heightened volatility, the volume of legal claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial services companies have historically increased. Operational Risk Security breaches of our systems, or those of our clients or third parties, may subject us to significant liability and damage our reputation. Our business involves the secure processing, storage, and transmission of confidential information about our clients and us. Information security risks for financial institutions are increasing, in part because of the use of the internet and mobile and cloud technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities, including the use of artificial intelligence technologies, of organized crime, activists, hackers and other external parties, including foreign state actors. Our systems and those of other financial institutions, as well as those of our third-party service providers, have been and will continue to be the target of cyber attacks, malicious code, computer viruses, ransomware, and denial of service attacks that could - 16 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION result in unauthorized access, misuse, loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information), account takeovers, unavailability of service or other events. Despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems, we may not be able to anticipate or to implement effective preventive measures against all security breaches of these types, especially because the techniques used change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and because security attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources. Data security breaches may also result from non-technical means, for example, employee misconduct. Given the high volume of transactions that we process, the large number of clients, counterparties and third-party service providers with which we do business, including cloud service providers, and the increasing sophistication of cyber attacks, a cyber attack could occur and persist for an extended period of time before being detected. The extent of a particular cyber attack and the steps we may need to take to investigate the attack may not be immediately clear, and it may take a significant amount of time before an investigation is completed and full and reliable information about the attack is known. During such time we would not necessarily know the extent of the harm or how best to remediate it, and certain errors or actions could be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and remediated, all or any of which would further increase the costs and consequences of a cyber attack. Security breaches, including breaches of our security measures or those of our third-party service providers or clients, could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws and could subject us to significant liability or loss that may not be covered by insurance, actions by our regulators, damage to our reputation, or a loss of confidence in our security measures which could harm our business. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures. We may also be required to pay ransom to threat actors to restore or prevent dissemination of data. We also face risk related to external fraud involving the misappropriation and use of clients’ user names, passwords or other personal information to gain access to our clients’ financial accounts. This could occur from the compromise of clients’ personal electronic devices or as a result of a data security breach at an unrelated company where clients’ personal information is taken and then made available to fraudsters. Additionally, data exposure can result from a failure to adequately destroy data during system or asset decommissioning, which might result in client or Company information being made available to external parties in error. Such risks have grown in recent years due to the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime and other external parties, including foreign state-sponsored parties. Losses reimbursed to clients under our guarantee against unauthorized account activity could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Technology and operational failures or errors and other operational risks could subject us to losses, litigation, regulatory actions, and reputational damage. We must process, record and monitor a large number of transactions and our operations are highly dependent on the integrity of our technology systems and our ability to make timely enhancements and additions to our systems. System interruptions, errors or downtime can result from a variety of causes, including changes in client use patterns, technological failure, changes to our systems, linkages with third-party systems and power failures and can have a significant impact on our business and operations. Our systems are vulnerable to disruptions from human error, execution errors, errors in models such as those used for asset management, capital planning and management, risk management, stress testing and compliance, employee misconduct, unauthorized trading, external fraud, computer viruses, distributed denial of service attacks, cyber attacks, terrorist attacks, natural disaster, extreme weather, power outage, capacity constraints, software flaws, events impacting key business partners and vendors, and similar events. For example, we and other financial institutions have been the target of various denial of service attacks that have, in certain circumstances, made websites, mobile applications and email unavailable for periods of time. Cloud technologies are critical to the operation of our systems and platforms and our reliance on cloud technologies is growing. Cloud service disruptions may lead to delays in accessing data that is important to our businesses and may hinder our clients’ access to our platforms. It could take an extended period of time to restore full functionality to our technology or other operating systems in the event of an unforeseen occurrence, which could affect our ability to process and settle client transactions. Despite our efforts to identify areas of risk, oversee operational areas involving risk, and implement policies and procedures designed to manage these risks, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer unexpected losses, reputational damage or regulatory action due to technology or other operational failures or errors, including those of our vendors or other third parties. While we devote substantial attention and resources to the reliability, capacity and scalability of our systems, we occasionally experience extraordinary trading volumes, which have caused and could cause our computer systems to operate at unacceptably slow speeds or even fail, affecting our ability to process client transactions and potentially resulting in some clients’ orders being executed at prices they did not anticipate. Disruptions in service and slower system response times could result in substantial losses, decreased client satisfaction, reputational damage, and regulatory inquiries. We are also dependent on the integrity and performance of securities exchanges, clearing houses, market makers, dealers, and other intermediaries to which client orders are - 17 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION routed for execution and settlement. System failures and constraints and transaction errors at such intermediaries could result in delays and erroneous or unanticipated execution prices and cancelled orders, cause substantial losses for us and for our clients, and subject us to claims from our clients for damages, and cause reputational harm. Certain events could increase our client service and processing times due to staffing shortages, remote work or the temporary loss of services from outsourced service providers, such as occurred during the COVID-19 pandemic. We consider service quality to be an important part of the client experience and our failure to meet client expectations could result in decreased client satisfaction. We take steps to prevent and detect fraud but the ways that fraudulent activity is attempted is continuously evolving. Although we monitor for new types of fraud, there may be a delay in recognizing the fraud is happening. Besides potential losses, shutting down fraudulent activity often requires a balance with client experience. Instances of fraud might negatively impact our reputation and client confidence in the Company, in addition to any direct losses that might result from such instances. Our investment management operations may subject us to fiduciary or other legal liability for client losses. Fund and trust management and administration are complex activities and include functions such as recordkeeping and accounting, security pricing, corporate actions, compliance with investment restrictions, daily net asset value computations, account reconciliations, and required distributions to fund shareholders. Failure to properly perform operational tasks, or the misrepresentation of our services and products could subject us to regulatory sanctions, penalties, or litigation, and result in reputational damage, liability to clients, and the termination of investment management or administration agreements, and the withdrawal of assets under our management. In the management and administration of funds and client accounts, we use quantitative models and other tools and resources to support investment decisions and processes, including those related to risk assessment, portfolio management, trading and hedging activities and product valuations. Errors in the design, function, or underlying assumptions used in these models and tools, particularly if we fail to detect the errors over an extended period, could subject us to claims of a breach of fiduciary duty and potentially large liabilities for make-whole payments, litigation, and/or regulatory fines. We rely on outsourced service providers to perform key functions. We rely on external service providers to perform certain key technology, cloud infrastructure, processing, servicing, and support functions. These service providers face technology, operating, business, and economic risks, and any significant failures by them, including the improper use or disclosure of our confidential client, employee, or company information, could cause us to incur losses and could harm our reputation. An interruption in or the cessation of service by any external service provider as a result of systems failures, capacity constraints, financial difficulties, natural disasters, extreme weather, power outage, public health crises, political developments, war, international disputes, or for any other reason, and our inability to make alternative arrangements in a timely manner could disrupt our operations, impact our ability to offer certain products and services, and result in financial losses to us. We temporarily lost the services from some of our outsourced service providers during the COVID-19 pandemic which contributed to increased client service response and processing times. Following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, we had to replace certain vendor resources which added incremental complexity in earlier phases of our TD Ameritrade conversion work. Switching to an alternative service provider may require a transition period and result in less efficient operations. We rely on financial intermediaries to execute and settle client orders and transactions with financial intermediaries are a significant source of revenue. We rely on market makers, dealers, securities exchanges, clearing houses, and other financial intermediaries to execute and settle our clients’ orders. In addition, payments received from market makers and exchanges in connection with the execution of client equity and options trades, and from dealers and other counterparties in connection with securities lending, account for significant revenue. The unwillingness or inability of any of these parties to perform their usual functions coupled with the unavailability of alternative arrangements could result in our clients’ orders not getting executed or settled. This may be due to market volatility, uneconomic trading conditions, capacity constraints, financial constraints, system failures, unanticipated trading halts invoked by securities exchanges, market closures, or other reasons. Our inability to get client orders executed or settled because of the unwillingness or inability of these parties to perform their usual functions could result in client dissatisfaction and reputational harm and expose us to client claims for damages. - 18 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Credit Risk We may suffer significant losses from our credit exposures. Our businesses are subject to the risk that a client, counterparty or issuer will fail to perform its contractual obligations, or that the value of collateral held to secure obligations will prove to be inadequate. While we have policies and procedures designed to manage this risk, the policies and procedures may not be fully effective. Our exposure mainly results from margin lending, clients’ options and futures trading, securities lending, mortgage lending, pledged asset lending, our role as a counterparty in financial contracts and investing activities, and indirectly from the investing activities of certain of the proprietary funds that the Company sponsors. When clients purchase securities on margin, borrow on lines of credit collateralized by securities, or trade options or futures, we are subject to the risk that clients may default on their obligations when the value of the securities and cash in their accounts falls below the amount of clients’ indebtedness. Our margin, options and futures business has materially increased as a result of our TD Ameritrade acquisition, and market liquidity represents an increased risk. Abrupt changes in securities valuations and the failure of clients to meet margin calls could result in substantial losses, especially if there is a lack of liquidity. We have exposure to credit risk associated with our investments. Those investments are subject to price fluctuations. Loss of value of securities can negatively affect earnings if management determines that such loss of value has resulted from a credit loss. The evaluation of whether a credit loss exists is a matter of judgment, which includes the assessment of multiple factors. If management determines that a security’s decline in fair value is the result of a credit loss, an allowance for credit losses on the security will be recorded and a corresponding loss will be recognized in current earnings. Even if a decline in fair value of a security is not determined to have resulted from a credit loss, if we were ever forced to sell the security sooner than intended prior to maturity due to liquidity needs, we would have to recognize any unrealized losses at that time. Our bank loans primarily consist of First Mortgages, PALs, and HELOCs. Increases in delinquency and default rates, housing and stock price declines, increases in the unemployment rate, and other economic factors, can result in increases in allowances for credit losses and related credit loss expense, as well as write downs on such loans. Heightened credit exposures to specific counterparties or instruments can increase our risk of loss. Examples include: • Large positions in financial instruments collateralized by assets with similar economic characteristics or in securities of a single issuer or industry; • Mortgage loans and HELOCs to banking clients which are secured by properties in the same geographic region; and • Client margins, options or futures, pledged assets, and securities lending activities collateralized by or linked to securities of a single issuer, index, or industry. The Company sponsors a number of proprietary money market mutual funds and other proprietary funds. Although the Company has no obligation to do so, the Company may decide for competitive or other reasons to provide credit, liquidity or other support to our funds in the event of significant declines in valuation of fund holdings or significant redemption activity that exceeds available liquidity. Such support could cause the Company to take significant charges, could reduce the Company’s liquidity and, in certain situations, could, with respect to proprietary funds other than money market mutual funds, result in the Company having to consolidate one or more funds in its financial statements. If the Company were to choose not to provide credit, liquidity or other support in such a situation, the Company could suffer reputational damage and its business could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our TD Ameritrade Integration We are working to complete one of the largest brokerage account conversions and could experience unanticipated issues. As part of our integration of TD Ameritrade, the Company expects to complete the remaining client transitions from TD Ameritrade to Schwab in a final transition group in May of 2024. This final transition group includes our most active trader accounts which drive significant revenue for TD Ameritrade and are, therefore, important to the revenue of the combined company. Although we have undertaken extensive planning and testing, the account transitions are complicated and we could experience issues which cause the final transition group or the remaining integration work to be delayed, or negatively impact the client experience. Such issues could adversely impact client retention, integration-related costs, the timing for realizing synergies including those dependent on the wind-down of the operations of the TD Ameritrade broker-dealers, our reputation, and compliance with regulatory requirements. - 19 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION We have experienced unanticipated issues earlier in the integration process that added complexity to our conversion work, including a need to increase capacity of our systems earlier in the integration process beyond our original technology build-out plan and other complexities of technology development. Though technology development to support the remaining client account transitions is now substantially complete, unanticipated issues could arise, including in relation to the wind-down of certain technology used by our broker-dealer subsidiaries. In connection with the completed 2023 transitions, the Company experienced attrition in client assets from former TD Ameritrade retail accounts and RIAs that was within our initial estimates when we announced the acquisition. It is possible that the remaining integration process could result in the loss of clients, including to a greater degree than previously planned or experienced in relation to the 2023 client account conversions. We expect to continue to incur significant costs in 2024 to finish combining the operations of Schwab and TD Ameritrade, including workforce, technology-related, and facilities consolidation costs. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration process. If we are not able to successfully transition the remaining client accounts, and complete planned technology wind-down activities, within the anticipated time frames, the anticipated cost savings and other benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or may take longer to realize than expected. Other Business Risks Potential strategic transactions could have a negative impact on our financial position. We evaluate potential strategic transactions, including business combinations, acquisitions, and dispositions. Any such transaction could have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. The process of evaluating, negotiating, effecting, and integrating any such strategic transaction may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, and might cause the loss of key clients, employees, and business partners. Moreover, integrating businesses and systems may result in unforeseen expenditures as well as numerous risks and uncertainties, including the need to integrate operational, financial, and management information systems and management controls, integrate relationships with clients and business partners, and manage facilities and employees in different geographic areas. The integration process could result in the disruption of ongoing businesses or changes to inconsistent standards, controls, procedures and policies that could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, employees, outsourced service providers and vendors. In addition, an acquisition may cause us to assume liabilities or become subject to litigation or regulatory proceedings or require the amortization of a large amount of acquired intangible assets. Further, we may not realize the anticipated benefits from an acquisition (including without limitation the acquisition of TD Ameritrade) in a timely manner or at all, and any future acquisition could be dilutive to our current stockholders’ percentage ownership or to earnings per common share (EPS). Our acquisitions and dispositions are typically subject to closing conditions, including regulatory approvals and the absence of material adverse changes in the business, operations or financial condition of the entity or part of an entity being acquired or sold. To the extent we enter into an agreement to buy or sell an entity or part of an entity, there can be no guarantee that the transaction will close when expected, or at all. If a material transaction does not close, our stock price could decline. Our industry is highly competitive and characterized by aggressive price competition. We operate in a highly competitive environment with a broad array of competitors from large integrated banks to venture-capital backed private companies. We continually monitor our pricing in relation to competitors and periodically adjust interest rates on deposits and loans, fees for advisory services, expense ratios on mutual funds and ETFs, trade commission rates, and other pricing and incentives to sustain our competitive position. Increased price competition from other financial services firms to attract clients, such as reduced commissions, higher deposit rates, reduced mutual fund or ETF expense ratios, or the increased use of incentives, could impact our results of operations and financial condition. We face competition in hiring and retaining qualified employees. The market for qualified personnel in our business is highly competitive. At various times, different functions and roles are in especially high demand in the market, compelling us to pay more to attract talent. Our ability to continue to compete effectively will depend upon our ability to attract new employees and retain existing employees while managing compensation costs. - 20 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Our stock price has fluctuated historically, and may continue to fluctuate. Our stock price can be volatile. Among the factors that may affect the volatility of our stock price are the following: • Speculation in the investment community or the press about, or actual changes in, our competitive position, organizational structure, executive team, operations, financial condition, financial reporting and results, expense discipline, strategic transactions, the expected benefits from our TD Ameritrade acquisition, or ratings from third parties; • The announcement of new products, services, acquisitions, or dispositions by us or our competitors; • Increases or decreases in revenue or earnings, changes in earnings estimates by the investment community, and variations between estimated financial results and actual financial results; • Business metrics, such as client cash and net new client assets; and • Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by large stockholders. Changes in the stock market generally, or as it concerns our industry, as well as geopolitical, corporate, regulatory, business, and economic factors may also affect our stock price. Future sales of CSC’s equity securities may adversely affect the market price of CSC’s common stock and result in dilution. CSC’s certificate of incorporation authorizes CSC’s Board of Directors, among other things, to issue additional shares of common or preferred stock or securities convertible or exchangeable into equity securities, without stockholder approval. CSC may issue additional equity or convertible securities to raise additional capital or for other purposes. The issuance of any additional equity or convertible securities could be substantially dilutive to holders of CSC’s common stock and may adversely affect the market price of CSC’s common stock. Our ongoing relationships with The Toronto-Dominion Bank and its affiliates could have a negative impact on us. Although our acquisition of TD Ameritrade was structured such that completion of the merger would not result in CSC either (i) being deemed to be “controlled” (as that term is interpreted by the Federal Reserve under the BHC Act or HOLA) by The Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD Bank) or (ii) being deemed to be in “control” of any of TD Bank’s depository institutions, changes in circumstances could trigger presumptions of control under the Federal Reserve’s regulations. This could occur if TD Bank and its affiliates own more than 9.9% of Schwab common stock, as interpreted in accordance with the applicable rules of the Federal Reserve. While the Stockholder Agreement between CSC and TD Bank prohibits TD Bank and its affiliates from exceeding the 9.9% threshold, it could happen unintentionally. This presumption of control could also be triggered if the revenue generated to either us or to any of the TD Bank depository institutions exceeds a certain percentage. The Stockholder Agreement contains provisions to address such situations.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS In addition to historical information, this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements are identified by words such as “believe,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “will,” “may,” “estimate,” “appear,” “could,” “would,” “expand,” “aim,” “maintain,” “continue,” “seek,” and other similar expressions. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections, or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s beliefs, objectives, and expectations as of the date hereof, are estimates based on the best judgment of Schwab’s senior management. These statements relate to, among other things: • Maximizing our market valuation and stockholder returns over time; our belief that developing trusted relationships will translate into more client assets which drives revenue and, along with expense discipline and thoughtful capital management, generates earnings growth and builds stockholder value; and maintaining our competitive position (see Business Strategy and Competitive Environment, and Products and Services in Part I – Item 1); • The impact from adjustments related to the Market Risk Rule (see Regulation in Part I – Item 1); • Expected benefits from the TD Ameritrade acquisition; expected timing for the TD Ameritrade client transitions; deal-related asset attrition; and cost estimates and timing, including acquisition and integration-related costs, capital expenditures, cost synergies, and exit and other related costs (see Business Acquisition in Part I – Item 1; Overview –Integration of TD Ameritrade in Part II – Item 7; and Exit and Other Related Liabilities in Part II – Item 8 – Note 15); • Actions to streamline our operations and our expectation of incremental run-rate cost savings and the timing and amount of associated exit and related costs (see Overview – Other in Part II – Item 7; and Exit and Other Related Liabilities in Part II – Item 8 – Note 15); • The outcome and impact of legal proceedings and regulatory matters (see Legal Proceedings in Part I – Item 3; and Commitments and Contingencies in Part II – Item 8 – Note 14); • Anticipated expenses and investments to support business growth and growth in our client base (see Overview and Results of Operations – Total Expenses Excluding Interest in Part II – Item 7); • The expected impact of proposed and final rules (see Regulation in Part I – Item 1; and Current Regulatory and Other Developments in Part II – Item 7); • Net interest revenue; the adjustment of rates paid on client-related liabilities; and outstanding balances and the use of supplemental funding (see Results of Operations – Net Interest Revenue in Part II – Item 7); • Capital expenditures (see Results of Operations – Total Expenses Excluding Interest in Part II – Item 7); • Impact from the phase-out of LIBOR (see Risk Management – Phase-out of LIBOR in Part II – Item 7); • Management of interest rate risk; the impact of changes in interest rates on net interest margin and revenue, bank deposit account fee revenue, economic value of equity, and liability and asset duration (see Risk Management in Part II – Item 7); • Sources and uses of liquidity and capital; and Tier 1 Leverage Ratio operating objective (see Liquidity Risk, Capital Management, Regulatory Capital Requirements, and Dividends in Part II – Item 7); • Capital management; the return of capital to stockholders; the migration of IDA balances to our balance sheet; expectations about capital requirements, including AOCI, and meeting those requirements; and plans regarding capital and dividends (see Capital Management – Regulatory Capital Requirements in Part II – Item 7; and Commitments and Contingencies in Part II – Item 8 – Note 14); • The expected impact of new accounting standards not yet adopted (see Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Part II – Item 8 – Note 2); and • The likelihood of indemnification and guarantee payment obligations and clients failing to fulfill contractual obligations (see Commitments and Contingencies in Part II – Item 8 – Note 14 and Financial Instruments Subject to Off-Balance Sheet Credit Risk – Client Trade Settlement in Note 17). Achievement of the expressed beliefs, objectives and expectations described in these statements is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expressed beliefs, objectives, and expectations. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or, in the case of documents incorporated by reference, as of the date of those documents. - 26 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) Important factors that may cause actual results to differ include, but are not limited to: • General market conditions, including the level of interest rates and equity market valuations; • Our ability to attract and retain clients, develop trusted relationships, and grow client assets; • Client use of our advisory and lending solutions and other products and services; • The level of client assets, including cash balances; • Client sensitivity to deposit rates; • Competitive pressure on pricing, including deposit rates; • The level and mix of client trading activity, including daily average trades, margin balances, and balance sheet cash; • Regulatory guidance and adverse impacts from new or changed legislation, rulemaking or regulatory expectations; • Capital and liquidity needs and management; • Our ability to manage expenses; • Our ability to attract and retain talent; • Our ability to develop and launch new and enhanced products, services, and capabilities, as well as enhance our infrastructure, in a timely and successful manner; • Our ability to monetize client assets; • Our ability to support client activity levels; • The risk that expected cost synergies and other benefits from the TD Ameritrade acquisition may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected and that integration-related expenses may be higher than expected; • Increased compensation and other costs due to inflationary pressures; • The ability to successfully implement integration strategies and plans relating to TD Ameritrade, including client account transitions; • The timing and scope of integration-related and other technology projects; • Real estate and workforce decisions; • Client cash allocations; • Migrations of bank deposit account balances (BDA balances); • Balance sheet positioning relative to changes in interest rates; • Interest earning asset mix and growth; • Our ability to access and use supplemental funding sources; • Prepayment levels for mortgage-backed securities; • Adverse developments in litigation or regulatory matters and any related charges; and • Potential breaches of contractual terms for which we have indemnification and guarantee obligations. Certain of these factors, as well as general risk factors affecting the Company, are discussed in greater detail in Risk Factors in Part I – Item 1A. GLOSSARY OF TERMS Active brokerage accounts: Brokerage accounts with activity within the preceding 270 days. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (AOCI): A component of stockholders’ equity which primarily includes unrealized gains and losses on AFS securities and securities transferred from the AFS category to the held to maturity (HTM) category. Asset-backed securities: Debt securities backed by financial assets such as loans or receivables. Assets receiving ongoing advisory services: Market value of all client assets custodied at the Company under the guidance of an independent advisor or enrolled in one of Schwab’s advice solutions at the end of the reporting period. Bank deposit account balances (BDA balances): Clients’ uninvested cash balances held off-balance sheet in deposit accounts at unconsolidated third-party financial institutions, pursuant to the IDA agreement and agreements formerly in effect with other third-party financial institutions. Average BDA balances represent the daily average balance for the reporting period. Basel III: Global regulatory standards on bank capital adequacy and liquidity issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. Basis point: One basis point equals 1/100 th of 1%, or 0.01%. - 27 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) Client assets: The market value, as of the end of the reporting period, of all client assets in our custody, BDA balances, and proprietary products, which includes both cash and securities. Average client assets are the daily average client asset balance for the reporting period. Client cash as a percentage of client assets: Calculated as the value, at the end of the reporting period, of all money market fund balances, bank deposits excluding brokered CDs issued by CSB, Schwab One ® balances, BDA balances, and certain cash equivalents divided by client assets. Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) Capital: The sum of common stock and related surplus net of treasury stock, retained earnings, AOCI, and qualifying minority interests, less applicable regulatory adjustments and deductions. As a Category III banking organization, CSC has elected to exclude AOCI from CET1 Capital. Common Equity Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio: The ratio of CET1 Capital to total risk-weighted assets as of the end of the period. Core net new client assets: Net new client assets before significant one-time inflows or outflows, such as acquisitions/divestitures or extraordinary flows (generally greater than $10 billion) relating to a specific client, and activity from off-platform brokered CDs issued by CSB. These flows may span multiple reporting periods. Customer Protection Rule: Refers to Rule 15c3-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Daily Average Trades (DATs): Includes daily average revenue trades by clients, trades by clients in asset-based pricing relationships, and all commission-free trades. Delinquency roll rates: The rates at which loans transition through delinquency stages, ultimately resulting in a loss. Schwab considers a loan to be delinquent if it is 30 days or more past due. Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act): Regulatory reform legislation containing numerous provisions which expanded prudential regulation of large financial services companies. Duration: Duration is typically used to measure the expected change in value of a financial instrument for a 1% change in interest rates, expressed in years. First Mortgages: Refers to first lien residential real estate mortgage loans. Full-time equivalent employees: Represents the total number of hours worked divided by a 40-hour work week for the following categories: full-time, part-time, and temporary employees and persons employed on a contract basis. High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA): HQLA is defined by the Federal Reserve, but includes assets that are actively traded and readily convertible to cash in times of stress. Interest-bearing liabilities: Primarily includes bank deposits, payables to brokerage clients, Federal Home Loan Bank borrowings, other short-term borrowings, and long-term debt on which Schwab pays interest. Interest-earning assets: Primarily includes cash and cash equivalents, cash and investments segregated, receivables from brokerage clients, investment securities, and bank loans on which Schwab earns interest. Investment grade: Defined as a rating equivalent to a Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) rating of “Baa3” or higher, or a Standard & Poor’s Rating Group (Standard & Poor’s) or Fitch Ratings, Ltd (Fitch) rating of “BBB-” or higher. Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR): The ratio of HQLA to projected net cash outflows during a 30-day stress scenario. Loan-To-Value (LTV) ratio: Calculated as the principal amount of a loan divided by the value of the collateral securing the loan. - 28 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) Margin loans: Money borrowed against the value of certain stocks, bonds, and mutual funds in a client portfolio. The borrowed money can be used to purchase additional securities or to meet short-term financial needs. Master netting arrangement: An agreement between two counterparties that have multiple contracts with each other that provides for net settlement of all contracts through a single cash payment in the event of default or termination of any one contract. Mortgage-backed securities: A type of asset-backed security that is secured by a mortgage or group of mortgages. Net interest margin: Net interest revenue (annualized for interim periods) divided by average interest-earning assets. Net new client assets: Total inflows of client cash and securities to Schwab less client outflows. Inflows include dividends and interest; outflows include commissions and fees. Capital gains distributions are excluded. Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR): The ratio of the amount of available stable funding relative to the amount of required stable funding. New brokerage accounts: All brokerage accounts opened during the period, as well as any accounts added via acquisition. Nonperforming assets: The total of nonaccrual loans and other real estate owned. Order flow revenue: Payments received from trade execution venues to which our broker-dealer subsidiaries send equity and option orders. Pledged Asset Line ® (PAL): A non-purpose revolving line of credit from a banking subsidiary secured by eligible assets held in a separate pledged brokerage account maintained at CS&Co. Return on average common stockholders’ equity: Calculated as net income available to common stockholders (annualized for interim periods) divided by average common stockholders’ equity. Risk-weighted assets: Computed by assigning specific risk-weightings to assets and off-balance sheet instruments for capital adequacy calculations. Tier 1 Capital: The sum of CET1 Capital and additional Tier 1 Capital instruments and related surplus, less applicable adjustments and deductions. Tier 1 Leverage Ratio: End-of-period Tier 1 Capital divided by adjusted average total consolidated assets for the period. Trading days: Days in which the markets/exchanges are open for the buying and selling of securities. Early market closures are counted as half-days. U.S. federal banking agencies: Refers to the Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the FDIC, and the CFPB. Uniform Net Capital Rule: Refers to Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which specifies minimum capital requirements that are intended to ensure the general financial soundness and liquidity of broker-dealers at all times. - 29 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) OVERVIEW Management focuses on several client activity and financial metrics in evaluating Schwab’s financial position and operating performance. We believe that metrics relating to net new and total client assets, as well as client cash levels and utilization of advisory services, offer perspective on our business momentum and client engagement. Data on new and total client brokerage accounts provides additional perspective on our ability to attract and retain new business. Total net revenue growth, pre-tax profit margin, EPS, return on average common stockholders’ equity, and the Consolidated Tier 1 Leverage Ratio provide broad indicators of Schwab’s overall financial health, operating efficiency, and ability to generate acceptable returns. Total expenses excluding interest as a percentage of average client assets is a measure of operating efficiency. Results for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021 are as follows: (1) 2023 includes net inflows of $32.5 billion from off-platform brokered CDs issued by CSB and $12.0 billion from a mutual fund clearing services client and outflows of $13.0 billion from an international relationship. 2022 includes outflows of $20.8 billion from certain mutual fund clearing services clients. 2021 includes outflows of $42.0 billion from certain mutual fund clearing services clients. (2) Beginning in 2023, client cash as a percentage of client assets excludes brokered CDs issued by CSB. Prior periods have been recast to reflect this change. (3) Beginning in 2023, adjustments made to GAAP financial measures also include restructuring costs. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures for further details and a reconciliation of such measures to GAAP reported results. (4) Adjusted total expenses is a non-GAAP financial measure adjusting total expenses excluding interest. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures. 2023 Compared to 2022 Through an uneven environment in 2023, with shifting views on the trajectory of the U.S. economy, persistent geopolitical unrest, and turmoil beginning early in the year within the banking sector, our “no trade-offs” value proposition continued to - 30 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) resonate with investors. The Federal Reserve raised the Federal Funds rate four times in the first three quarters of 2023 for a total of 100 basis points before holding rates unchanged since July. Although equity markets were volatile during 2023, ultimate returns were strong with the S&P 500 ® rising 24% and the NASDAQ Composite ® increasing 43%. Investor sentiment was also volatile throughout 2023; strongly bearish in the first quarter before recovering in the second, then declining again in the third quarter. Investor sentiment recovered significantly in the fourth quarter to end the year with a solid bullish viewpoint. Despite this mixed sentiment, our clients remained engaged with the markets and with Schwab. Clients entrusted us with $305.7 billion in core net new assets in 2023. Total client assets reached $8.52 trillion as of December 31, 2023, rising 21% from year-end 2022 as a result of asset gathering and market gains, partially offset by some expected deal-related attrition from clients originating at TD Ameritrade. Trading volume declined somewhat from the prior year, as DATs were 5.4 million in 2023, down 9% from 2022. Clients opened 3.8 million new brokerage accounts, bringing active brokerage accounts to 34.8 million at year-end, up 3% year-over-year. Clients sought to take advantage of higher market interest rates in 2023, and we saw significant client cash reallocation from our sweep products into higher-yielding alternatives offered by Schwab. While bank sweep deposits and payables to brokerage clients decreased by a total of $126.1 billion during 2023, client assets invested in Schwab’s proprietary money market funds and fixed income securities increased by a total of $383.8 billion. Schwab’s financial performance during 2023 reflected the challenges of navigating a market environment shaped by the Federal Reserve’s interest rate tightening policy and the follow-on effects stemming from the regional banking crisis beginning in March. Schwab’s net income totaled $5.1 billion in 2023 and diluted EPS was $2.54, down 29% and 27%, respectively, from the prior year. Adjusted diluted EPS (1) was $3.13 in 2023, down 20% from $3.90 in 2022. Total net revenues were $18.8 billion in 2023, down 9% from the prior year as client cash realignment activity impacted our net interest revenue. Net interest revenue was $9.4 billion in 2023, down 12% from the prior year, as the benefits of rising rates were more than offset by increased utilization of higher-cost supplemental funding and lower interest-earning assets. Asset management and administration fees totaled $4.8 billion in 2023, rising 13% from 2022, primarily as a result of growth in money market funds, as well as improvement in equity markets and growth in our other proprietary fund products, partially offset by lower balances of certain third-party funds. Trading revenue was $3.2 billion in 2023, down 12% from 2022, due primarily to mix of client trading activity and overall lower trading volume. Bank deposit account fee revenue was $705 million in 2023, down 50% from the prior year due to lower average BDA balances and lower net yields, as well as $97 million in one-time breakage fees related to ending our arrangements with certain third-party banks in the first quarter of 2023. BDA balances totaled $97.5 billion at December 31, 2023, down 23% from year-end 2022 due primarily to client cash allocation decisions. Total expenses excluding interest were $12.5 billion in 2023, increasing 10% from 2022. This increase was due primarily to restructuring charges incurred in the second half of 2023, higher regulatory fees and assessments due primarily to an increase in FDIC assessments including the recognition of a $172 million special assessment in the fourth quarter, as well as higher expenses for compensation and benefits and depreciation and amortization, due primarily to growth in average headcount and investment in technology to support growth in our client base and the TD Ameritrade integration. Adjusted total expenses (1) were $11.0 billion in 2023, higher by 6% from 2022. Acquisition and integration-related costs were $401 million in 2023, up 2% from 2022, and amortization of acquired intangibles was $534 million, down 10% from 2022 as certain assets from the TD Ameritrade acquisition were fully amortized beginning in the fourth quarter of 2022. Beginning in the third quarter of 2023, adjusted total expenses (1) also excludes restructuring costs, which totaled $495 million in 2023, related to efforts to achieve run-rate cost savings in preparation for post-integration of TD Ameritrade. Return on average common stockholders’ equity was 16% for 2023, down from 18% in 2022. Return on tangible common equity (1) (ROTCE) was 54% in 2023, up from 42% in 2022. These changes primarily reflected lower average stockholders’ equity and lower net income in 2023. Average stockholders’ equity was lower in 2023 due to a year-over-year decrease in average AOCI driven by unrealized losses on our AFS investment securities portfolio and securities transferred from AFS to HTM in 2022 (see Item 8 – Note 5). Throughout 2023, the Company continued its diligent approach to balance sheet management and sought to prioritize flexibility. During 2023, we issued $6.2 billion in senior notes to prepare for upcoming maturities as well as provide additional liquidity during the larger TD Ameritrade conversion weekends. Total balance sheet assets decreased 11% from year-end 2022 to $493.2 billion at December 31, 2023, due primarily to client cash realignment amid the higher interest rate environment. To assist in facilitating these client cash movements from sweep products to high-yielding cash and fixed income alternatives, the (1) Adjusted diluted EPS, adjusted total expenses, and return on tangible common equity are non-GAAP financial measures. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures for further details and a reconciliation of such measures to GAAP reported results. - 31 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) Company utilized supplemental funding sources, including FHLB borrowings and issuances of brokered CDs. As realignment activity significantly decreased in the second half of the year, by year-end, we reduced the total outstanding balance of such supplemental sources by approximately 18% from the peak balances reached in May 2023. Driven by a combination of the Company’s net income and also a smaller balance sheet in 2023, our consolidated Tier 1 Leverage Ratio increased to 8.5% as of year-end. 2022 Compared to 2021 Schwab’s 2022 financial results reflected strong performance against a challenging economic backdrop. Our clients faced a very difficult environment throughout the year, encountering inflation and global economic concerns, with Russia’s invasion of Ukraine exacerbating the impact. Equity markets suffered their worst year since 2008, with the S&P 500 ® and NASDAQ Composite ® contracting 19% and 33%, respectively, in 2022, while investor sentiment remained bearish throughout the year. At the same time, the Federal Reserve raised short-term rates at the fastest pace in 40 years, ultimately increasing the Fed Funds rate seven times to reach an upper bound of 4.50% in December. Additionally, uncertainty around future macroeconomic growth increased in the second half of the year, weighing on longer-term rates and leading to an inverted yield curve. Through these challenges, clients continued to turn to Schwab for help in achieving their financial goals. Core net new assets in 2022 totaled $427.7 billion, representing an organic growth rate of 5%, which included significant tax-related outflows in April. Total client assets were $7.05 trillion at December 31, 2022, down 13% from year-end 2021, as market value declines of approximately $1.5 trillion in client assets more than offset the Company’s continued asset gathering during the year. DATs in 2022 were 5.9 million, down 9% from the prior year, as trading volume subsided from the extraordinary levels seen in 2021. New brokerage accounts were also down from the prior year, as clients opened 4.0 million new brokerage accounts in 2022; active brokerage accounts totaled 33.8 million at December 31, 2022, up 2% from year-end 2021. Schwab’s financial performance in 2022 reflected the resiliency of our diversified financial model in a challenging macroeconomic environment and impacts from higher market interest rates. Net income totaled $7.2 billion in 2022 and diluted EPS was $3.50, representing year-over-year growth of 23% and 24%, respectively. Adjusted diluted EPS (1) was $3.90 in 2022, up from $3.25 in 2021. Total net revenues rose 12% year-over-year to $20.8 billion in 2022. Net interest revenue increased to $10.7 billion, rising 33% from 2021 as significantly higher market rates more than offset the impact of balance sheet contraction due to client cash allocation decisions. Asset management and administration fees totaled $4.2 billion in 2022, down 1% year-over-year as lower market valuations throughout the year offset the benefit of lower money market fund fee waivers. Trading revenue declined by 12% to $3.7 billion in 2022, due to lower DATs relative to the extraordinary trading volume seen in 2021 and changes in mix of client trading activity. Bank deposit account fee revenue was $1.4 billion in 2022, up 7% from 2021 as higher average net yields more than offset lower average BDA balances. BDA balances totaled $126.6 billion at December 31, 2022, down 20% from year-end 2021, reflecting client cash allocation decisions and migrations to our balance sheet. Total expenses excluding interest amounted to $11.4 billion in 2022, increasing 5% from 2021, and adjusted total expenses (1) were $10.4 billion, up 7% from the prior year. These increases reflected higher compensation and benefits expense and higher occupancy and equipment expense, as we continued to invest in our people and technology to support ongoing growth in our client base. These increases were partially offset by lower other expense, which included a charge of approximately $200 million in 2021 for a regulatory matter settled in 2022. Acquisition and integration-related costs and amortization of acquired intangibles were $392 million and $596 million, respectively, in 2022, compared with $468 million and $615 million, respectively, in 2021. Return on average common stockholders’ equity grew to 18% in 2022 from 11% in 2021, while ROTCE (1) increased to 42% in 2022 compared with 22% in 2021. The increases in both return on average common stockholders’ equity and ROTCE were due primarily to lower stockholders’ equity and growth in net income. Stockholders’ equity declined in 2022 primarily due to a significant decrease in AOCI, as higher market interest rates resulted in larger unrealized losses on our AFS investment securities portfolio. In January and November 2022, the Company transferred $108.8 billion and $79.8 billion, respectively, of investment securities from the AFS category to the HTM category (see Capital Management and Item 8 – Note 5). (1) Adjusted diluted EPS, adjusted total expenses, and return on tangible common equity are non-GAAP financial measures. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures for further details and a reconciliation of such measures to GAAP reported results. - 32 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) The Company continued its diligent approach to balance sheet management in 2022, maintaining appropriate capital and liquidity to support client activity and returning excess capital to stockholders. As market rates rose from near-zero levels at the beginning of the year, clients allocated a growing portion of their assets to higher-yielding cash and fixed income alternatives. Total balance sheet assets decreased 17% year-over-year to $551.8 billion at December 31, 2022 as a result of these client cash allocation decisions and unrealized losses on AFS securities, both resulting primarily from higher market interest rates. To facilitate these client cash movements, we took steps to enhance our liquidity by limiting new portfolio investments to help build available cash and utilizing supplemental funding sources including FHLB advances and brokered CDs. We increased our common stock dividend by 22% during 2022, and implemented a $15 billion share repurchase authorization in July. Repurchases under this new authorization totaled 47 million shares for $3.4 billion in 2022. The Company issued $750 million in preferred stock in the first quarter of 2022, and redeemed a total of $1.0 billion of preferred stock during the second half of the year. Inclusive of these actions, the Company’s Tier 1 Leverage Ratio finished the year at 7.2%. Integration of TD Ameritrade The Company has made significant progress in its integration of TD Ameritrade. Over the course of 2023, the Company transitioned approximately $1.6 trillion in client assets across more than 15 million client accounts, including 7,000 RIAs, from TD Ameritrade to the Schwab platform across four transition groups. The Company has now completed the transition of RIAs and approximately 90% of all TD Ameritrade client accounts. In connection with the completed 2023 transitions, we have experienced some deal-related attrition of client assets from retail accounts and RIAs, which have been below our initial estimates when we announced the acquisition. The Company expects to complete the remaining client transitions from TD Ameritrade to Schwab in a final transition group in May 2024. The Company continues to expect total acquisition and integration-related costs and capital expenditures will be between $2.4 billion and $2.5 billion. The Company’s estimates of the nature, amounts, and timing of recognition of acquisition and integration-related costs remain subject to change based on certain factors, including the duration and complexity of the remaining integration process and the continued uncertainty of the economic environment. More specifically, factors that could cause variability in our expected acquisition and integration-related costs as we prepare for the last transition group and remaining integration work include the level of employee attrition, the complexity to wind-down the operations of the TD Ameritrade broker-dealers and related technology, and real estate-related exit cost variability. Acquisition and integration-related costs, which are inclusive of related exit costs, totaled $401 million, $392 million, and $468 million in 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively, and the Company expects to incur acquisition and integration-related costs of approximately $200 million in 2024. Over the course of the integration, we continue to expect to realize annualized cost synergies of between $1.8 billion and $2.0 billion, and, through December 31, 2023, we have achieved approximately 80% of this amount on an annualized run-rate basis. The Company expects to achieve the vast majority of the remaining estimated cost synergies by the end of 2024, with anticipated full year synergy realization beginning in 2025. The estimated timing and amounts of synergy realization remain subject to change as we progress through the remaining stages of the integration. See also Results of Operations – Total Expenses Excluding Interest, Non-GAAP Financial Measures, and Item 8 – Note 15. Other In addition to cost synergies directly related to the integration of TD Ameritrade, the Company has taken incremental actions to streamline its operations to prepare for post-integration, including through position eliminations and decreasing its real estate footprint. Through these actions, the Company expects to realize at least $500 million of incremental run-rate cost savings in addition to integration synergies. In order to achieve these cost savings, the Company expects to incur total exit and related costs, primarily related to employee compensation and benefits and facility exit costs of approximately $500 million, inclusive of costs recognized through December 31, 2023 of $495 million. The Company anticipates the remaining costs, primarily related to real estate, will be incurred during 2024. Refer to Results of Operations – Total Expenses Excluding Interest and Item 8 – Note 15 for additional information. - 33 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) CURRENT REGULATORY AND OTHER DEVELOPMENTS In November 2023, the FDIC approved a final special assessment to recover losses incurred by the DIF to protect uninsured depositors due to the March 2023 closures of two banks. The pre-tax impact of the final rule was $172 million. This special assessment is tax deductible and was recognized fully in earnings in the fourth quarter of 2023. The special assessment will be paid over eight quarters beginning in the first quarter of 2024, subject to potential extension and a potential one-time final special assessment for any shortfall in the DIF. In October 2023, following previous attempts to expand fiduciary regulation for broker-dealers, the U.S. Department of Labor released another proposed rule to significantly broaden the definition of “fiduciary” under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. Among other requirements, the rule would subject broker-dealers who provide non-discretionary investment advice to retirement plans and accounts to a “best interest” standard. The rule could significantly impact the products, services, and support that firms can make available to retirement investors, and the Company continues to evaluate such impacts and the related implementation and operational issues, pending final adoption. In October 2023, the U.S. federal banking agencies issued a final rule that makes extensive revisions to the regulations implementing the CRA. These revisions include the delineation of assessment areas, the overall evaluation framework and performance standards and metrics, the definition of community development activities and data collection and reporting, and requires significant new lending by banks to low-and-moderate income communities. The new rule generally becomes effective on January 1, 2026, with its additional data collection and reporting requirements effective January 1, 2027. The Company has begun to prepare for complying with the requirements included in the new rule by the applicable effective dates. We do not expect the new rule will have a material impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, or results of operations. In August 2023, the U.S. federal banking agencies issued a proposed rulemaking on long-term debt requirements for certain large banking organizations. Among other things, the proposed rule would require CSC to maintain outstanding minimum levels of eligible long-term debt, as defined by the proposed rule, issued externally. The proposed rule would also require our banking subsidiaries to maintain outstanding minimum levels of eligible long-term debt, which our banking subsidiaries would be required to issue internally to CSC. The proposed rule would be phased-in over a three-year transition period. The comment period for the proposed rule ended on January 16, 2024 and the rule proposal is subject to further modification. The proposed rule could have a significant impact on the amount of debt that CSC and our banking subsidiaries are required to maintain. In July 2023, the U.S. federal banking agencies issued a notice of proposed rulemaking with amendments to the regulatory capital rules. Among other things, the proposed rules would require us to include AOCI in regulatory capital and to calculate our risk-weighted assets using a revised risk-based approach, a component of which is based on operational risk, phased in over a three-year transition period beginning July 1, 2025 and ending July 1, 2028. The comment period for the proposed rules ended on January 16, 2024. The impact of the proposal would be significant to Schwab, as the proposed rules could increase regulatory capital requirements for consolidated CSC and our banking subsidiaries. In anticipation of the rules being adopted, the Company’s capital management for consolidated CSC and our banking subsidiaries now incorporates measures that are inclusive of AOCI. See Capital Management for additional information. In December 2022, the SEC proposed a set of four related equity market structure rules that would make significant changes to how national market system (NMS) stock orders are priced, executed and reported. The four proposed rules are described below. • The “Order Competition Rule” would require that, before most individual investors’ orders could be executed internally by a trading center (like wholesaler market makers), those orders must first be exposed to a qualifying order-by-order auction in which both market makers and institutional investors can participate. • “Regulation Best Execution” would establish an SEC-level best execution standard (in addition to the existing FINRA and MSRB best execution rules) for broker-dealers and require them to establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures addressing how the broker-dealer will comply with the best execution standard and make routing or execution decisions for customer orders. Regulation Best Execution would apply not only to equities, but to all securities. • Amendments to Rule 605 of Regulation NMS requiring enhanced disclosures of order execution quality for large brokers that handle retail orders. • A rule to (i) amend minimum pricing increments (or tick sizes) that would apply to both the quoting and trading of NMS stocks, (ii) reduce the exchange access fee caps, and (iii) require transparency of odd-lots. - 34 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) The comment periods for the proposed rules ended on March 31, 2023. While the impacts to Schwab of the proposed rules cannot be fully assessed until final rules are released, as proposed, the rules would have a significant impact to numerous aspects of critical equity market structure and the execution of orders for retail investors. Among other impacts, certain of the proposed rules would likely result in increased transaction costs for retail investors which could affect client investment and trading decisions, and would require substantial operational changes for financial intermediaries including the Company. In November 2022, the SEC proposed a rule that would require substantial changes to the liquidity risk management programs for open-end mutual funds other than money market funds (funds) and require them to implement “swing pricing” and impose a “hard close” on the acceptance of purchase and redemption orders. Swing pricing would require funds that are not exchange-traded funds or money market funds to adjust the fund’s current net asset value (NAV) per share by a “swing factor” if the fund has either (i) net redemptions (no threshold) or (ii) net purchases that exceed a specified threshold (2% of the fund’s net assets). To implement the swing pricing requirements, the proposed rule also would require that a fund, its transfer agent, or a registered clearing agency receive purchase and redemption orders prior to the time the fund has established for determining the NAV, typically market close, in order to receive a given day’s NAV (a “hard close”). Current practices permit fund orders received by a financial intermediary prior to the fund cut-off time to be transmitted to the fund after the fund cut-off time and still receive that day’s NAV. Under the proposed rule, orders received by the fund, its transfer agent or registered clearing agency after the fund cut-off time would receive the next day’s NAV. The comment period for the proposed rule ended on February 14, 2023. While the impacts to Schwab of the proposed rule cannot be fully assessed until the final rule is released, we believe the proposed rule could impact investor interest in mutual funds, which could lead to changes in investor behavior. In addition, implementation of the proposed rule would require that financial intermediaries, including the Company, modify order entry systems and operational workflow to comply with the requirements. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Total Net Revenues The following table presents a comparison of revenue by category: N/M Not meaningful. Percentage changes greater than 200% are presented as not meaningful. Net Interest Revenue Schwab’s primary interest-earning assets include cash and cash equivalents; cash and investments segregated; margin loans, which constitute the majority of receivables from brokerage clients; investment securities; and bank loans. Fees earned and expenses incurred on securities lending and borrowing activities are conducted by our broker-dealer subsidiaries using assets held in client brokerage accounts. Schwab’s interest-bearing liabilities are comprised of bank deposits, which include brokered - 35 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) CDs issued by CSB; payables to brokerage clients; FHLB borrowings, other short-term borrowings (e.g., commercial paper, repurchase agreements, other secured borrowings); and long-term debt. Schwab deploys the funds from these sources into the assets outlined above. As Schwab builds its client base, we attract new client sweep cash, which is a primary driver of funding balance sheet growth. We do not use short-term, wholesale borrowings to support our long-term investment activity, but may use such funding for short-term liquidity purposes or to provide temporary funding as we have in 2022 and 2023. Non-interest-bearing funding sources include stockholders’ equity, certain client cash balances, and other miscellaneous liabilities. Revenue on interest-earning assets is affected by various factors, such as the composition of assets, prevailing interest rates and spreads at the time of origination or purchase, changes in interest rates on cash and cash equivalents, floating-rate securities and loans, and changes in prepayment levels for mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities and loans. Schwab establishes the rates paid on client-related liabilities, and management expects that it will generally adjust the rates paid on these liabilities at some fraction of any movement in short-term rates. Interest expense on long-term debt, FHLB borrowings, other short-term borrowings, and other funding sources is impacted by market interest rates at the time of borrowing and changes in interest rates on floating-rate liabilities. See also Risk Management – Market Risk. Interest rates increased significantly beginning late in the first quarter of 2022 through the third quarter of 2023. Short-term rates were near zero until the Federal Reserve began an aggressive tightening cycle in March 2022 in response to rising inflation, ultimately increasing the federal funds target overnight rate eleven times between March 2022 and July 2023 for a total increase of 525 basis points and maintaining the upper bound of the target overnight rate at 5.50% through year-end 2023. Long-term rates increased throughout 2022 and 2023, generally at a slower pace, thus leading to an inverted yield curve. Schwab’s average interest-earning assets in 2023 were lower compared with 2022, primarily due to clients’ reallocation of cash from sweep products to higher-yielding investment solutions in the second half of 2022 and during 2023, which resulted primarily from the rapid increases to the federal funds overnight rate. These changes in client cash allocations reduced average balances of bank deposits and payables to brokerage clients. To support this client cash allocation activity, the Company has been utilizing temporary supplemental funding beginning in the fourth quarter of 2022 and throughout 2023, including drawing upon FHLB secured lending facilities and issuing brokered CDs. The average pace of client cash allocation out of sweep products into higher-yielding investment solutions decreased significantly beginning in the second quarter of 2023, and, apart from an increase in August following the Federal Reserve’s July rate increase, continued to decline during the second half of 2023. In the fourth quarter of 2023, the Company saw bank deposits and payables to brokerage clients increase by a total of $17.5 billion, or 5%, due in part to typical seasonal cash inflows near year-end. Schwab saw strength in net new client assets during 2022, which, along with transfers of BDA balances to the Company’s balance sheet (see Bank Deposit Account Fees), drove growth in Schwab’s average interest-earning assets in 2022 relative to 2021. Partially offsetting this growth, we experienced significant seasonal tax outflows in the second quarter of 2022, and, due to the rapid increases to the federal funds overnight rate, changes in client cash allocations increased in the second half of 2022 which resulted in a total decrease in bank deposits and payables to brokerage clients of 18% since year-end 2021. During 2022, the Company increased its cash holdings and reduced the duration of incremental investment securities purchases to provide flexibility to help support such changes in client cash allocations associated with higher short-term interest rates. - 36 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) The following table presents net interest revenue information corresponding to interest-earning assets and funding sources on the consolidated balance sheets: (1) Amounts have been calculated based on amortized cost. Interest revenue on investment securities is presented net of related premium amortization. (2) During 2022, the Company transferred a portion of its investment securities designated as AFS to the HTM category, as described in Item 8 – Note 5. (3) Average balance includes $36.0 billion and $437 million of brokered CDs in 2023 and 2022, respectively. (4) Average balance and interest revenue/expense was less than $500 thousand in the period or periods presented. (5) Beginning in 2023, FHLB borrowings are presented separately from other short-term borrowings. Prior period amounts have been reclassified to reflect this change. Net interest revenue decreased $1.3 billion, or 12%, in 2023 from 2022 primarily due to increased utilization of higher-cost supplemental funding sources to support client cash allocations in the rising rate environment, and lower average interest-earning assets, which more than offset the benefits of higher average yields on interest-earning assets. Net premium amortization of investment securities decreased to $830 million in 2023 from $1.4 billion in 2022 as a result of increases in market interest rates and a smaller investment securities portfolio. Average interest-earning assets for 2023 were lower by 21% compared to 2022, which was primarily due to lower bank deposits and payables to brokerage clients as a result of clients allocating cash out of sweep products into higher-yielding investment solutions due to higher market interest rates. Net interest margin increased to 1.98% in 2023, from 1.78% in 2022, as higher market interest rates improved yields on interest-earning assets, which more than offset the higher rates paid across interest-bearing funding sources. The Company’s higher average balances in 2023 relative to 2022 of FHLB borrowings, repurchase agreements, and brokered CDs resulted in higher funding costs. The Company prioritizes repayment of the outstanding balances of its supplemental funding sources, and during the second half of 2023, the total outstanding balance of these funding sources decreased by $17.5 billion. Our use and the financial impacts of such supplemental funding is dependent on several factors, including the volume and pace of clients’ cash allocation activity, which is driven primarily by changes in market interest rates, as well as asset gathering. While client cash realignment activity has slowed significantly since the second quarter of 2023, continued uncertainty remains, including in regard to the path of market interest rates and client behavior, which will significantly impact our utilization of supplemental funding sources. The impacts to net interest revenue of using supplemental funding sources also depend on the type of funding source used and levels of interest rates. The Company currently expects its outstanding balances of supplemental funding sources to decrease over time. Certain amounts outstanding at December 31, 2023 will require rollover into new borrowings, the amount and costs of which will depend on the above noted factors. See also Risk Management – - 37 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) Liquidity Risk, Item 8 – Note 11 Bank Deposits, and Item 8 – Note 12 Borrowings for additional information on these and other funding sources. Net interest revenue increased $2.7 billion, or 33%, in 2022 from 2021 primarily due to higher average yields on interest-earning assets as a result of higher market interest rates. Net premium amortization of investment securities decreased to $1.4 billion in 2022 from $2.3 billion in 2021. These benefits were partially offset by higher rates paid on funding sources, higher average FHLB borrowings and long-term debt outstanding, and lower balances of margin loans and lower securities lending revenue due to decreased market demand. Average interest-earning assets for 2022 were higher by 8%, compared to 2021. This increase was primarily due to higher average balances of bank deposits and payables to brokerage clients, which resulted from net new client asset inflows as well as transfers of BDA balances to our balance sheet during 2022. These year-over-year increases in average balances were offset by client cash allocation decisions in response to higher short-term market interest rates during 2022, as clients moved certain cash balances out of bank deposits and payables to brokerage clients. Net interest margin increased to 1.78% in 2022, from 1.45% in 2021. Higher market interest rates improved yields on interest-earning assets, which more than offset the higher rates paid across interest-bearing funding sources. Asset Management and Administration Fees Asset management and administration fees include mutual fund, ETF, and CTF service fees and fees for other asset-based financial services provided to individual and institutional clients. Schwab earns mutual fund, ETF, and CTF service fees for shareholder services, administration, and investment management provided to its proprietary funds, and recordkeeping and shareholder services provided to third-party funds. Asset management and administration fees are based upon the daily balances of client assets invested in these funds and do not include securities lending revenues earned by proprietary mutual funds, ETFs, and CTFs, as those amounts, net of program fees, are credited to the fund shareholders. Proprietary CTFs may, but generally do not, directly participate in securities lending. The fair values of client assets included in proprietary and third-party mutual funds, ETFs, and CTFs are based on quoted market prices and other observable market data. We also earn asset management fees for advice solutions, which include managed portfolios, specialized strategies, and customized investment advice. Other asset management and administration fees include various asset-based fees such as trust fees, 401(k) recordkeeping fees, mutual fund clearing fees, and non-balance based service and transaction fees. Asset management and administration fees vary with changes in the balances of client assets due to market fluctuations and client activity. - 38 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) The following table presents asset management and administration fees, average client assets, and average fee yields: (1) In 2022 and 2023, includes transfers from other third-party mutual funds and ETFs to Mutual Fund OneSource ® and other NTF funds. (2) Average client assets for advice solutions may also include the asset balances contained in the mutual fund and/or ETF categories listed above. (3) Includes various asset-related fees, such as trust fees, 401(k) recordkeeping fees, and mutual fund clearing fees and other service fees. (4) Includes miscellaneous service and transaction fees relating to mutual funds and ETFs that are not balance-based. Asset management and administration fees increased by $540 million, or 13%, in 2023 from 2022, primarily as a result of higher balances in Schwab money market funds and the elimination of fee waivers on those funds as well as higher average client asset balances due to stronger equity markets. Money market fund balances increased in 2023 as clients shifted their cash allocations to higher-yielding investment solutions, and money market fund fee waivers were eliminated during 2022, both due primarily to the Federal Reserve’s increases to the federal funds target overnight rate. The increases in asset management and administration fees in 2023 were also due to growth in Schwab equity and bond funds, ETFs, and CTFs, partially offset by lower balances of certain third-party mutual funds and ETFs. Asset management and administration fees declined by $58 million, or 1%, in 2022 from 2021, due to lower balances in Mutual Fund OneSource ® and other third-party mutual funds, as well as advice solutions, relative to 2021. Balances declined primarily due to equity market weakness during 2022, which negatively impacted client asset valuations. These decreases offset the benefit of lower money market fund fee waivers, which were eliminated during the second quarter of 2022 as a result of the Federal Reserve’s increases to the federal funds target overnight rate. The following table presents a roll forward of client assets for the Schwab money market funds, Schwab equity and bond funds, ETFs, and CTFs, and Mutual Fund OneSource ® and other NTF funds. The following funds generated 44%, 33%, and 29% of the asset management and administration fees earned during 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively: (1) Includes $39.8 billion and $77.7 billion of transfers from other third-party mutual funds and ETFs to Mutual Fund OneSource ® and Other NTF Funds in 2023 and 2022, respectively. Trading Revenue Trading revenue includes commissions, order flow revenue, and principal transaction revenues. Commission revenue is affected by volume and mix of trades executed. Order flow revenue is comprised of payments received from trade execution venues to which our broker-dealer subsidiaries send equity and option orders. Order flow revenue is affected by volume and mix of client trades, as well as pricing received from trade execution venues. Principal transactions revenue is recognized primarily as a result of accommodating clients’ fixed income trading activity, and includes adjustments to the fair value of securities positions - 39 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) held to facilitate such client trading activity. Principal transactions revenue also includes unrealized gains and losses on cash and investments segregated for regulatory purposes. The following tables present trading revenue, trade details, and related information: (1) Revenue per trade is calculated as trading revenue divided by DATs multiplied by the number of trading days. Trading revenue decreased $443 million, or 12%, in 2023 compared to 2022, primarily due to lower options order flow revenue from changes in the mix of client trading activity and narrower quoted spreads in the options market, and lower equity order flow revenue reflecting a shift toward more low-price securities and lower equity trading activity overall. Additionally, commissions decreased as a result of lower client trading activity and fewer trading days. Partially offsetting the decrease in 2023 compared to 2022, principal transactions revenue increased as a result of higher volume in clients’ fixed income trading and higher market interest rates. Trading revenue decreased $479 million, or 12%, in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily due to lower client trading activity in 2022 relative to 2021, driven by the extraordinary trading volume experienced during the first quarter of 2021, as well as changes in the mix of client trading activity toward more ETFs and fewer single stocks, and toward more index options and futures and fewer single stock options. These factors drove lower commissions and order flow revenue in 2022 relative to 2021. Partially offsetting these decreases, principal transactions revenue increased as a result of higher volume in clients’ fixed income trading and higher market interest rates. Bank Deposit Account Fees The Company earns bank deposit account fee revenue from the TD Depository Institutions. These fees are affected by changes in interest rates and the composition of balances designated as fixed- and floating-rate obligation amounts. - 40 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) The following table presents bank deposit account fee revenue, average BDA balances, average net yield, and average balances earning fixed- and floating-rate yields: In January 2023, the Company ended its arrangements with other third-party banks to simplify bank sweep operations ahead of the first TD Ameritrade client transition group in February 2023. In addition, the FDIC implemented a 2-basis-point increase to the initial base deposit insurance assessment rate, which became effective for the first quarterly assessment period in 2023. This increase in the FDIC’s deposit insurance assessment results in a decrease to bank deposit account fee revenue, dependent on BDA balance levels. Bank deposit account fees decreased $704 million, or 50%, in 2023 compared to 2022. The decrease was primarily due to lower average BDA balances, an increase in the amount paid to clients due to higher interest rates, and breakage fees of $97 million incurred during the first quarter of 2023 as a result of ending the other third-party bank arrangements. These factors also contributed to the decrease in average net yield in 2023 compared to 2022. The decrease in average BDA balances in 2023 compared to 2022 was primarily due to client cash allocation decisions in response to rising short-term market interest rates throughout 2022 and through the first three quarters of 2023. The percentages of BDA balances designated as fixed-rate and floating-rate obligation amounts as of December 31, 2023 were 86% and 14%, respectively. Bank deposit account fees increased $94 million, or 7%, in 2022 compared to 2021. This was primarily due to higher market interest rates, which helped to increase the average net yield in 2022. The Company transferred net amounts of $21.0 billion and $10.6 billion of BDA balances to its balance sheet from the TD Depository Institutions and other third-party banks during 2022 and 2021, respectively. The transfer of these balances to our balance sheet, as well as client cash allocation decisions in response to higher short-term market interest rates in 2022, led to the decrease in average BDA balances in 2022 compared to 2021. The percentages of BDA balances designated as fixed-rate and floating-rate obligations as of December 31, 2022 were 87% and 13%, respectively. Other Revenue Other revenue includes exchange processing fees, certain service fees, other gains and losses from the sale of assets, and the provision for credit losses on bank loans. Other revenue decreased $63 million, or 8%, in 2023 compared to 2022 primarily due to lower exchange processing fees, net losses on sales of AFS securities, and certain lower service fees, partially offset by lower provision for credit losses on bank loans. Exchange processing fees decreased primarily due to a decrease in the SEC fee rate which became effective in the first quarter of 2023 and lower year-to-date options volume. The provision for credit losses on bank loans was lower as loan loss factors decreased while the total balance of First Mortgages increased slightly compared to year-end 2022. The Company’s provision for credit losses on bank loans in 2022 reflected increased loan loss factors driven primarily by higher forecasted interest rates earlier in the Federal Reserve’s monetary tightening, as well as growth in the loan portfolio. In addition, other revenue in 2022 included $46 million in gains on the sale of Schwab Compliance Technologies, Inc. and certain investments. Other revenue increased $33 million, or 4%, in 2022 compared to 2021 primarily due to these gains and higher exchange processing fees, partially offset by a higher provision for credit losses on bank loans, certain lower service fees due to lower trading volume, and net losses on sales of AFS securities in 2022. Exchange processing fees had increased in 2022 as a result of an SEC fee rate increase which became effective in the second quarter of 2022. - 41 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) Total Expenses Excluding Interest The following table shows a comparison of total expenses excluding interest: Total expenses excluding interest increased $1.1 billion, or 10%, in 2023 from 2022, and $567 million, or 5%, in 2022 from 2021. Adjusted total expenses, which excludes acquisition and integration-related costs, amortization of acquired intangible assets, and, beginning in the third quarter of 2023, restructuring costs, increased $643 million, or 6%, in 2023 from 2022 and $662 million, or 7%, in 2022 from 2021. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures for further details and a reconciliation of such measures to GAAP reported results. The Company began incurring restructuring costs in the third quarter of 2023 in connection with actions to streamline its operations to prepare for post-integration of TD Ameritrade (see below and Overview – Other for additional information). The Company currently anticipates total expenses excluding interest in full-year 2024 will be generally consistent with full-year 2023 levels, except in regard to acquisition and integration-related costs and restructuring costs. See Overview for additional information regarding these costs, and below for discussion of current and prior year results. Total compensation and benefits increased in 2023 from 2022 due to restructuring costs recognized during the second half of 2023 related to position eliminations, higher average employee headcount to support TDA client account transitions, and annual merit increases, partially offset by lower incentive compensation. The 2022 increase was a result of growth in employee headcount to support our expanding client base, annual merit increases, as well as a 5% employee salary increase and other targeted compensation adjustments that went into effect in late 2021. Compensation and benefits included acquisition and integration-related costs of $187 million, $220 million, and $283 million in 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively. Compensation and benefits also included restructuring costs of $292 million in 2023. Professional services expense slightly increased in 2023 from 2022, primarily due to increased utilization of professional services to support overall growth of the business. The increase in 2022 from 2021 was primarily due to increased utilization of technology-related and other professional services to support overall growth of the business and enhancement to technological infrastructure to support our expanding client base, as well as the integration of TD Ameritrade. Professional services included acquisition and integration-related costs of $135 million, $140 million, and $132 million in 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively. Occupancy and equipment expense increased in 2023 from 2022, and in 2022 from 2021, primarily due to an increase in software maintenance and other agreements as well as other technology equipment costs to support growth of the business and the integration of TD Ameritrade. Occupancy and equipment included acquisition and integration-related costs of $28 million, $21 million, and $39 million in 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively. Occupancy and equipment also included restructuring costs of $17 million in 2023. - 42 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) Advertising and market development expense decreased in 2023 from 2022, primarily as a result of lower advertising costs and lower client promotional spending for TD Ameritrade. The decrease in 2022 from 2021 was also primarily due to lower spending for marketing communications for TD Ameritrade. Communications expense increased in 2023 compared to 2022, primarily as a result of client communications related to TDA account transitions completed during 2023. Communications expense was flat in 2022 compared to 2021. Depreciation and amortization expense increased in 2023 from 2022, and in 2022 from 2021, primarily as a result of higher amortization of purchased and internally developed software and higher depreciation of hardware, driven by capital expenditures to support the TDA integration and enhance our technological infrastructure to support growth of the business. Amortization of acquired intangible assets decreased in 2023 from 2022, and in 2022 from 2021, as certain assets from the TDA acquisition were fully amortized by the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2022. Regulatory fees and assessments increased in 2023 from 2022, primarily as a result of an FDIC special assessment of $172 million recorded during the fourth quarter of 2023 and higher FDIC deposit insurance assessments during 2023, reflecting greater use of brokered CDs and a 2-basis point increase to the FDIC deposit insurance assessment rate, which became effective for the first quarterly assessment period in 2023. These increases were partially offset by a lower assessment base. See Current Regulatory and Other Developments for discussion of the FDIC special assessment. The decrease in 2022 from 2021 was primarily due to lower client trading activity, partially offset by higher FDIC assessments and other regulatory assessments due to year-over-year average asset growth and overall growth of the business. Other expense increased in 2023 from 2022, primarily due to impairment charges in 2023 related to closing certain leased corporate offices for restructuring and TDA integration. The decrease in 2022 from 2021 was primarily due to the recognition of a charge of approximately $200 million in 2021 for a regulatory matter settled in 2022, partially offset by higher exchange processing fees as a result of fee rate increases beginning in the second quarter of 2022 and also higher clearing charges. Other expense included acquisition and integration-related costs of $27 million and restructuring costs of $181 million in 2023. Capital expenditures primarily include capitalized software costs, information technology and telecommunications equipment, and buildings. Total capital expenditures were $804 million, $952 million, and $1,041 million in 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively. Capital expenditures decreased 16% in 2023 compared to 2022, as lower capitalized information technology equipment and buildings more than offset an increase in capitalized software costs. We continued to invest in our technological infrastructure in 2023 to support the TDA integration as well as greater capacity for our expanding client base. Capital expenditures decreased in 2022 compared to 2021, as higher capitalized software costs were offset by lower building expansion and capitalized information technology equipment. Capital expenditures were 4.3% of total net revenues in 2023, slightly above our estimated range for the year. As we complete the TDA client transitions and the rest of the integration in 2024, we anticipate capital expenditures for the year to be within our longer term expectation of 3-5% of total net revenues. Taxes on Income Schwab’s effective income tax rate on income before taxes was 20.6% in 2023, 23.5% in 2022, and 24.1% in 2021. The decrease in the effective tax rate in 2023 from 2022 was primarily related to a decrease in state tax expense and the recognition of certain tax credits in 2023, partially offset by an increase in non-deductible FDIC deposit insurance assessments and a decrease in equity compensation tax deduction benefits. The decrease in the effective tax rate in 2022 from 2021 was primarily related to reversal of tax reserves in 2022 due to the resolution of certain state tax matters and tax benefits recognized on the portion of the 2021 charge for a regulatory matter settled in 2022 that was determined upon final settlement to be deductible. Partially offsetting the decreases in the effective tax rate from these items was a decrease in equity compensation tax deduction benefits, higher state income tax rates, and an increase in non-deductible compensation in 2022. Segment Information Revenues and expenses are attributed to the two segments based on which segment services the client. Management evaluates the performance of the segments on a pre-tax basis. Segment assets and liabilities are not used for evaluating segment performance or in deciding how to allocate resources to segments. Net revenues in both segments are generated from the underlying client assets and trading activity; differences in the composition of net revenues between the segments are based on - 43 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) the composition of client assets, client trading frequency, and pricing unique to each. While both segments leverage the scale and efficiency of our platforms, segment expenses reflect the dynamics of serving millions of clients in Investor Services versus the thousands of RIAs on the Advisor Services platform. Financial information for our segments is presented in the following table: (1) In 2023, Investor Services includes net inflows of $32.5 billion from off-platform brokered CDs issued by CSB, inflows of $12.0 billion from a mutual fund clearing services client, and outflows of $5.8 billion from an international relationship. In 2022 and 2021, Investor Services includes outflows of $20.8 billion and $42.0 billion, respectively, from mutual fund clearing services clients. In 2023, Advisor Services includes outflows of $7.2 billion from an international relationship. Segment Net Revenues Investor Services and Advisor Services total net revenues decreased by 7% and 15%, respectively, in 2023 compared to 2022. Net interest revenue decreased for both segments due to higher-cost funding sources and lower average interest-earning asset balances, as described above. Both segments saw a decrease in bank deposit account fees due to lower average BDA balances and higher yields paid to clients, as well as breakage fees incurred as a result of ending certain third-party bank arrangements. Trading revenue decreased for both segments, primarily as a result of lower order flow revenue and commissions, due to lower client trading activity and pricing, partially offset by higher fixed income trading activity. Other revenue decreased for both segments primarily due to lower exchange processing fees, net losses on sales of AFS securities, and gains on the sale of certain investments in 2022, partially offset by lower provision for credit losses on bank loans. These decreases were partially offset by higher asset management and administration fees in both segments, primarily as a result of higher money market fund balances and the elimination of money market fund fee waivers during 2022 and growth in Schwab proprietary fund products, partially offset by lower balances in certain third-party funds. Investor Services and Advisor Services total net revenues increased by 8% and 28%, respectively, in 2022 compared to 2021. Investor Services growth was primarily driven by increases in net interest revenue as described above, partially offset by decreases in trading revenue due to lower client trading activity and changes in the mix of trading activity, resulting in lower commissions and order flow revenue, and a decrease in bank deposit account fees. Advisor Services growth was primarily driven by increases in net interest revenue as described above, as well as increases in trading revenue primarily due to higher trading volume amid market volatility and bank deposit account fees primarily due to a rising interest rate environment. Asset management and administration fees were essentially flat for Advisor Services, while declining slightly for Investor Services as equity market weakness during 2022 weighed on client asset valuations, partially offset by the elimination of money market fund fee waivers. Other revenues increased for Investor Services in 2022 from 2021 due to higher exchange processing fees, partially offset by a higher provision for credit losses on bank loans, certain lower service fees, and lower net gains on sales of AFS securities. Segment Expenses Excluding Interest Investor Services and Advisor Services total expenses excluding interest increased by 8% and 13%, respectively, in 2023 compared to 2022. Both segments saw higher compensation and benefits expenses due to restructuring costs recognized in the - 44 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) second half of 2023, higher average headcount to support TDA client account transitions, and annual merit increases, partially offset by lower incentive compensation. Regulatory fees and assessments increased in both segments, primarily due to an FDIC special assessment recorded during the fourth quarter of 2023 and higher FDIC deposit insurance assessments as described above. Other expenses were also higher for both segments, primarily driven by impairment of certain leased corporate offices related to restructuring and TDA integration. Depreciation and amortization increased for both segments primarily due to higher amortization of purchased and internally developed software and higher depreciation of hardware, driven by capital expenditures in 2022 and 2023 to enhance our technological infrastructure to support the TDA integration and growth of the business. Investor Services and Advisor Services total expenses excluding interest increased by 3% and 14%, respectively, in 2022 compared to 2021. Both segments saw higher compensation and benefits expenses due to increases in headcount to support our expanding client base, annual merit increases, as well as a 5% employee salary increase and other targeted compensation adjustments that went into effect in late 2021. Occupancy and equipment expenses increased in both segments, primarily due to an increase in software maintenance and other agreements as well as other technology equipment costs to support growth of the business and the integration of TD Ameritrade. In addition, depreciation and amortization increased for both segments primarily due to higher amortization of purchased and internally developed software and higher depreciation of hardware, driven by capital expenditures in 2022 and 2021 to enhance our technological infrastructure to support growth of the business. For Investor Services, these increases were partially offset by lower other expenses due to a charge of approximately $200 million in 2021 for a regulatory matter settled in 2022, partially offset by higher exchange fees and clearing charges, and lower advertising and market development expense due to reduced spending for marketing communications for TD Ameritrade. RISK MANAGEMENT Schwab’s business activities expose it to a variety of risks, including operational, compliance, credit, market, and liquidity risks. The Company has a comprehensive risk management program to identify and manage these risks and their associated potential for financial and reputational impact. Our risk management process is comprised of risk identification and assessment, risk response, risk measurement and monitoring, and risk reporting and escalation. We use periodic risk and control self-assessments, control testing programs, and our internal audit department performs evaluations of our risk management processes and controls. Culture A fundamental commitment to strong and effective risk management is core to Schwab’s business strategy. Risk management is an integrated and foundational part of our culture and a duty of every employee. The Board of Directors has approved an Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Framework that incorporates our purpose, vision, and values, which form the bedrock of our corporate culture and set the tone for the organization. We designed the ERM Framework to enable a comprehensive approach to managing risks encountered by Schwab in its business activities. The ERM Framework incorporates key concepts commensurate with the size, risk profile, complexity, and continuing growth of the Company. While all personnel are responsible for risk management, the Company’s risk appetite, which is defined as the amount of risk the Company is willing to accept in pursuit of its corporate strategy, is developed by executive management and approved by the Board of Directors. The Company’s “Through Clients’ Eyes” strategy guides our actions and behaviors at Schwab, and informs our corporate culture, our risk appetite, and approach to risk management. Schwab is committed to the highest standards of ethical conduct and compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics outlines the ethical conduct that we must demonstrate to deliver our strategy while retaining the trust of our stakeholders. As part of our integration of TD Ameritrade, the Company has aligned TD Ameritrade’s risk management practices with Schwab’s risk appetite. Our integration work included evaluating new or changed risks impacting the combined company and taking action through various means. Though integration work continues, the Company’s operations, inclusive of TD Ameritrade, remain consistent with our ERM Framework. Risk Governance Schwab maintains an integrated risk governance structure that directs Company-wide execution of the risk management process. The risk governance structure includes the Board of Directors, designated committees of the Board, and management risk committees. - 45 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) CSC’s Board of Directors sets the tone and culture of effective risk management. The Board has a Risk Committee that assists the Board in setting the type and level of risks that the Company is willing to take and supports the independence and stature of independent risk management. The Board Risk Committee also assists the Board in overseeing and holding senior management accountable for implementing the Board’s approved risk tolerance, maintaining the Company’s risk management and control program, and managing the Company’s activities in a safe and sound manner, and in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The Board Risk Committee also approves risk appetite statements and related key risk appetite metrics, key risk policies, and reviews reports relating to risk issues from functional areas of corporate risk management, legal, and internal audit. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities by reviewing the integrity of the Company’s financial statements and financial reporting processes, the qualifications and independence of the independent auditors and performance of the Company’s internal audit function and independent auditors, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, processes to assess and manage risk exposures, and other matters as directed by the Board. The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors assists the Board in oversight of compensation of the Company’s directors, executive officers, and other senior officers. The Board Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee assists the Board in its oversight responsibilities regarding Board composition, performance, and developing corporate governance principles, policies and procedures. Senior management takes an active role in the risk management process and has developed policies and procedures under which specific business and control units are responsible for risk identification and assessment, risk response, risk measurement and monitoring, and risk reporting and escalation. The Global Risk Committee, which is comprised of senior executives from each major business and control function, is responsible for the oversight of risk management. This includes identifying emerging risks, assessing risk management practices and the control environment, reinforcing business accountability for risk management, supervisory controls and regulatory compliance, supporting resource prioritization across the organization, and escalating significant issues to the Board of Directors. The Chief Risk Officer regularly reports activities of the Global Risk Committee to the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors. We have established risk metrics and reporting that enable measurement of the impact of strategy execution against risk appetite. The risk metrics, with risk limits and tolerance levels, are established for key risk categories by the Global Risk Committee and its functional risk sub-committees. Functional risk sub-committees focusing on specific areas of risk report to the Global Risk Committee. These sub-committees include the: • Operational Risk Oversight Committee – provides oversight of and approves operational risk management policies, risk tolerance levels, and operational risk governance processes, and includes sub-committees covering Information Security and Cybersecurity, Technology, Fraud, Third-Party Risk, Data Integrity, and Model Governance; • Compliance Risk Committee – provides oversight of compliance risk management (inclusive of compliance programs for Schwab’s regulated entities, Anti-Money Laundering/Sanctions, Conduct, Fiduciary, Conflicts of Interest, and Privacy), policies, and risk tolerance levels providing an aggregate view of compliance risk exposure and employee conduct, including subcommittees covering Fiduciary and Conflicts of Interest Risk; • Financial Risk Oversight Committee – provides oversight of and approves credit, market, liquidity, and capital risk policies, limits, and exposures and includes the Liquidity and Capital Subcommittee; and • New Products and Services Risk Oversight Committee – provides oversight of, and approves new products, including the policy, program, and process designed to oversee new products and services risks prior to and post launch. Senior management has also created an Incentive Compensation Risk Oversight Committee to provide oversight of incentive compensation risks and achieve sound incentive compensation risk management practices; it reports directly to the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. The Company’s finance, internal audit, legal, and corporate risk management departments assist management and the various risk committees in evaluating, testing, and monitoring risk management. In addition, the Disclosure Committee is responsible for monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal quarter. The Disclosure Committee reports on this evaluation to the CEO and CFO prior to their certification required by Sections 302 and 906 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. - 46 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) Operational Risk Operational risk arises due to potential inadequacies or failures related to internal processes, people, and systems, or from external events or relationships impacting the Company and/or any of its key business partners and vendors. While operational risk is inherent in all business activities, the Company has established a system of internal controls and risk management practices designed to keep operational risk and operational losses within the Company’s risk appetite. We have specific policies and procedures to identify and manage operational risk, and perform periodic testing to evaluate the effectiveness of relevant internal controls. Where appropriate, we manage the impact of operational loss and litigation expense through the purchase of insurance. The insurance program is specifically designed to address our key operational risks and to maintain compliance with local laws and regulations. Schwab’s operations are highly dependent on the integrity and resilience of our critical business functions and technology systems. To the extent Schwab experiences business or system interruptions, errors or downtime (which could result from a variety of causes, including natural disasters, terrorist attacks, technological failure, cyber attacks, changes to systems, linkages with third-party systems, extreme weather, and power failures), our business and operations could be negatively impacted. To minimize business interruptions and ensure the capacity to continue operations during an incident regardless of duration, Schwab maintains a backup and recovery infrastructure which includes facilities for backup and communications, a geographically dispersed workforce, and routine testing of business continuity and disaster recovery plans and a well-established incident management program. Please see Part I – Item 1C. Cybersecurity for additional information regarding Information Security risk, including cybersecurity risk management. Fraud risk arises from attempted or actual theft of financial assets or other property of any client or the Company. Schwab is committed to protecting the Company’s and its clients’ assets from fraud and complying with all applicable laws and regulations to prevent, detect and report fraudulent activity. Schwab manages fraud risk through policies, procedures and controls. We also take affirmative steps to prevent and detect fraud and report, to appropriate authorities, any known or suspected acts of fraud in accordance with existing laws and requirements. Schwab also faces operational risk when we employ the services of various third parties, including domestic and international outsourcing of certain technology, processing, servicing, and support functions. We manage the exposure to third-party risk and promote a culture of resiliency through internal policies, procedures and controls, and contractual provisions, control standards, ongoing monitoring of third-party performance, and appropriate testing with third-party service providers. Model risk is the potential for adverse consequences from decisions based on incorrect or misused model outputs and reports. Model uses at Schwab include, but are not limited to, calculating capital requirements for hypothetical stressful environments, estimating interest and credit risk for loans and other balance sheet assets, identifying and preventing fraud and other financial crimes, and providing guidance in the management of client portfolios. Schwab has established a policy that aligns with regulatory guidance to describe the roles and responsibilities of all key stakeholders in model development, management, and use. Schwab registers models in a centralized database, performs risk assessment of models based on their potential financial, reputational, or regulatory impact to the Company. The model risk rating determines the scope of model governance activities such as independent model validations, model annual reviews, and model performance monitoring. Compliance Risk Schwab faces compliance risk which is the potential exposure to legal or regulatory sanctions, fines or penalties, financial loss, or damage to reputation resulting from the failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, or other regulatory requirements. Among other things, compliance risks relate to the suitability of client investments, conflicts of interest, disclosure obligations and performance expectations for products and services, supervision of employees, and the adequacy of our controls. The Company and its affiliates are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and foreign regulatory authorities, including SROs. We manage compliance risk through policies, procedures, and controls reasonably designed to achieve and/or monitor compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. These procedures address issues such as conduct and ethics, sales and trading practices, marketing and communications, extension of credit, client funds and securities, books and records, anti-money laundering, privacy, and employment policies. - 47 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) Privacy risk is the risk of unauthorized collection, use, storage, or sharing of personal information, including data incidents and other mismanagement of personal information. We manage privacy risk through policies, procedures, and controls reasonably designed to achieve and/or monitor compliance with these laws and regulations. Anti-money laundering/sanctions risk is the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, fines or penalties, financial loss, or damage to reputation resulting from the failure to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering (BSA/AML) and Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC)/global sanctions (collectively, “AML”) laws, regulations, rules, or other regulatory requirements. Schwab manages this risk through daily monitoring, a system of internal controls, education and training for appropriate personnel, and developing risk-based procedures for conducting ongoing customer due diligence and complying with beneficial ownership requirements for legal entity customers. Conduct risk arises from inappropriate, unethical, or unlawful behavior of the Company, its employees or third parties acting on the Company’s behalf that may result in detriment to the Company’s clients, financial markets, the Company, and/or the Company’s employees. We manage this risk through policies, procedures, a system of internal controls, including personnel monitoring and surveillance. Conduct-related matters are escalated through appropriate channels by the Company’s Corporate Responsibility Officer. Fiduciary risk is the potential for financial or reputational loss through breach of fiduciary duties to a client. Fiduciary activities include, but are not limited to, individual and institutional trust, investment management, custody, and cash and securities processing. We manage this risk by establishing policy and procedures to ensure that obligations to clients are discharged faithfully and in compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Business units have the primary responsibility for adherence to the policy and procedures applicable to their business. Guidance and control are provided through the creation, approval, and ongoing review of applicable policies by business units and various risk committees. Incentive Compensation risk is the potential for adverse consequences resulting from compensation plans that do not balance the execution of our strategy with risk and financial rewards, potentially encouraging imprudent risk-taking by employees. We have implemented risk management processes, including a policy, to identify, evaluate, assess, and manage risks associated with incentive compensation plans and the activities of certain employees, defined as Covered Employees, who have the authority to expose the Company to material amounts of risk. Credit Risk Credit risk is the potential for loss due to a borrower, counterparty, or issuer failing to perform its contractual obligations. Our exposure to credit risk mainly results from investing activities in our liquidity and investment portfolios, mortgage lending, margin lending and client option and futures activities, pledged asset lending, securities lending activities, and our role as a counterparty in other financial contracts. To manage the risks of such losses, we have established policies and procedures, which include setting and reviewing credit limits, monitoring of credit limits and quality of counterparties, and adjusting margin, PAL, option, and futures requirements for certain securities and instruments. Liquidity and Investment Portfolios Schwab has exposure to credit risk associated with its investment portfolios, which include U.S. agency and non-agency mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities, corporate debt securities, U.S. agency notes, U.S. Treasury securities, certificates of deposit, U.S. state and municipal securities, commercial paper, and foreign government agency securities. At December 31, 2023, substantially all securities in the investment portfolios were rated investment grade. U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities do not have explicit credit ratings; however, management considers these to be of the highest credit quality and rating given the guarantee of principal and interest by the U.S. government or U.S. government-sponsored enterprises. Mortgage Lending Portfolio The bank loan portfolio includes First Mortgages, HELOCs, PALs (discussed below), and other loans. The credit risk exposure related to loans is actively managed through individual loan and portfolio reviews. Management regularly reviews asset quality, including concentrations, delinquencies, nonaccrual loans, charge-offs, and recoveries. All are factors in the determination of an appropriate allowance for credit losses. - 48 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) Our residential loan underwriting guidelines include maximum LTV ratios, cash out limits, and minimum Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO) credit scores. The specific guidelines are dependent on the individual characteristics of a loan (for example, whether the property is a primary or secondary residence, whether the loan is for investment property, whether the loan is for an initial purchase of a home or refinance of an existing home, and whether the loan size is conforming or jumbo). Schwab does not originate or purchase residential loans that allow for negative amortization and does not originate or purchase subprime loans (generally defined as extensions of credit to borrowers with a FICO score of less than 620 at origination), unless the borrower has compensating credit factors. For more information on credit quality indicators relating to Schwab’s bank loans, see Item 8 – Note 6. Securities and Instrument-Based Lending Portfolios Collateral arrangements relating to margin loans, PALs, option and futures positions, securities lending agreements, and securities purchased under agreements to resell (resale agreements) include provisions that require additional collateral in the event of market fluctuations. Additionally, for margin loans, PALs, options and futures positions, and securities lending agreements, collateral arrangements require that the fair value of such collateral sufficiently exceeds the credit exposure in order to maintain a fully secured position. Other Counterparty Exposures Schwab performs clearing services for all securities transactions in its client accounts. Schwab has exposure to credit risk due to its obligation to settle transactions with clearing corporations, mutual funds, and other financial institutions even if Schwab’s clients or a counterparty fail to meet their obligations to the Company. Market Risk Market risk is the potential for changes in earnings or the value of financial instruments held by Schwab as a result of fluctuations in interest rates, equity prices, or market conditions. Schwab is exposed to market risk primarily from changes in interest rates within our interest-earning assets relative to changes in the costs of funding sources that finance these assets. To manage interest rate risk, we have established policies and procedures, which include setting limits on net interest revenue risk and economic value of equity (EVE) risk. To remain within these limits, we manage the maturity, repricing, and cash flow characteristics of the investment portfolios. Management monitors established guidelines to stay within the Company’s risk appetite. In 2023, the Company began to utilize interest rate swap derivative instruments to assist with managing interest rate risk, the effects of which are incorporated into the Company’s net interest revenue and EVE analyses. For further information on our interest rate risk management strategies utilizing interest rate swaps, see Item 8 – Note 16. Our measurement of interest rate risk involves assumptions that are inherently uncertain and, as a result, cannot precisely estimate the impact of changes in interest rates on net interest revenue, bank deposit account fees, or EVE. Actual results may differ from simulated results due to balance growth or decline and the timing, magnitude, and frequency of interest rate changes, as well as changes in market conditions and management strategies, including changes in asset and liability mix. Financial instruments are also subject to the risk that valuations will be negatively affected by changes in demand and the underlying market for a financial instrument. We are indirectly exposed to option, futures, and equity market fluctuations in connection with client option and futures accounts, securities collateralizing margin loans to brokerage customers, and client securities loaned out as part of the brokerage securities lending activities. Equity market valuations may also affect the level of brokerage client trading activity, margin borrowing, and overall client engagement with Schwab. Additionally, we earn mutual fund and ETF service fees and asset management fees based upon daily balances of certain client assets. Fluctuations in these client asset balances caused by changes in equity valuations directly impact the amount of fee revenue we earn. Our market risk related to financial instruments held for trading is not material. Net Interest Revenue Simulation For our net interest revenue sensitivity analysis, we use net interest revenue simulation modeling techniques to evaluate and manage the effect of changing interest rates. The simulations include all balance sheet interest rate-sensitive assets and - 49 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) liabilities, and include derivative instruments. Key assumptions include the projection of interest rate scenarios with rate floors, rates and balances of non-maturity client cash held on the balance sheet, prepayment speeds of mortgage-related investments, repricing of financial instruments, and reinvestment of matured or paid-down securities and loans. We use independent third-party models to simulate net interest revenue sensitivity and related analyses. Fixed income analytical vendors provide term structure models, prepayment speed models for mortgage-backed securities and mortgage loans, and cash flow projections based on interest income, contractual maturities, and prepayments. Consistent with our policies related to the management of interest rate risk, the Company’s net interest revenue sensitivity analysis primarily involves gradual parallel increases/decreases in interest rates over a twelve-month period, though we also regularly simulate the effects of non-parallel shifts and instantaneous shifts of interest rates on net interest revenue. Net interest revenue is affected by various factors, such as the distribution and composition of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, the spread between yields earned on interest-earning assets and rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities, which may reprice at different times or by different amounts, and the spread between short- and long-term interest rates. Interest-earning assets include investment securities, margin loans, bank loans, and cash and cash equivalents. These assets are sensitive to changes in interest rates and changes in prepayment levels that tend to increase in a declining rate environment and decrease in a rising rate environment. Because we establish the rates paid on certain brokerage client cash balances and bank deposits and the rates charged on certain margin and bank loans, and control the composition of our investment securities, we have some ability to manage our net interest spread, depending on competitive factors and market conditions. When we have liquidity needs that exceed our primary sources of funding, the Company has needed to utilize higher-cost funding sources, which can reduce net interest margin and net interest revenue. Higher prevailing short-term interest rates generally improve yields on shorter duration interest-earning assets. During periods of rapidly rising interest rates, clients tend to reallocate cash out of sweep products into higher-yielding, off-balance sheet, fixed income securities and money market funds within Schwab’s product offerings. This can result in lower interest-earning assets and/or may require replacement funding with higher funding costs, which therefore tend to constrain net interest revenue when interest rates are moving rapidly higher. A decline in short-term interest rates could also negatively impact the yield on the Company’s investment and loan portfolios to a greater degree than any offsetting reduction in interest expense from funding sources, compressing net interest margin. Net interest revenue sensitivity analysis assumes the asset and liability structure of the consolidated balance sheet would not be changed as a result of the simulated changes in interest rates. While this approach is useful to isolate the impact of changes in interest rates on a statically-sized asset and liability structure, it does not capture changes to client cash allocations. We conduct simulations on EVE to capture the impact of client cash allocation changes on our balance sheet. As we actively manage the consolidated balance sheet and interest rate exposure, we have taken and would typically seek to take steps to manage additional interest rate exposure that could result from changes in the interest rate environment. As part of the Company’s ongoing evaluation of its modeling, in the fourth quarter of 2023, the Company updated deposit beta assumptions in a declining market interest rate environment for its net interest revenue simulation model. The following table shows simulated changes to net interest revenue over the next 12 months beginning December 31, 2023 and 2022 of a gradual increase or decrease in market interest rates relative to prevailing market rates at the end of each reporting period: (1) Reflects the impact of the assumption updates implemented in the fourth quarter of 2023. The prior period has not been recast. The Company’s simulated incremental increases in market interest rates had a larger impact on net interest revenue as of December 31, 2023 compared to December 31, 2022 primarily due to higher margin loan and cash balances, which was partially offset by an increased allocation to FHLB borrowings and other short-term borrowings across the Company’s banking subsidiaries. In the absence of the assumption updates, simulated decreases of 50, 100, and 200 basis points as of December 31, 2023 would have reduced net interest revenue by 1.7%, 3.8%, and 8.3%, respectively. Simulated incremental decreases in market interest rates had a lesser impact on net interest revenue as of December 31, 2023 compared to December 31, 2022 due primarily to the change in assumptions for deposit betas, which, along with a lower rate environment, drove greater expense - 50 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) savings across non-maturity deposits and an increased allocation to shorter-term liabilities, partially offset by higher concentrations of margin loan and cash balances. Effective Duration Effective duration measures price sensitivity relative to a change in prevailing interest rates, taking account of amortizing cash flows and prepayment optionality for mortgage-related securities and loans. Duration is measured in years and commonly interpreted as the average timing of principal and interest cash flows. We seek to manage the Company’s asset duration in relation to management’s estimate of the Company’s liability duration. The Company’s liability duration is impacted by the composition of funding sources, and typically decreases in periods of rising market interest rates and increases in periods of declining market interest rates. The Company’s estimated effective duration of consolidated total assets was approximately 2.4 years at December 31, 2023 (inclusive of the impact of derivative instruments) and 2.6 years at December 31, 2022. The estimated effective duration of our AFS investment securities portfolio was approximately 2.5 years (2.2 years inclusive of the impact of derivative instruments) as of December 31, 2023 and 2.4 years as of December 31, 2022. The estimated effective duration for the Company’s total AFS and HTM investment securities portfolio was approximately 4.0 years as of both December 31, 2023 and 2022 (3.9 years inclusive of the impact of derivative instruments on AFS securities as of December 31, 2023). AFS and HTM securities comprised approximately 54% and 58% of the Company’s consolidated total assets as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The estimated effective duration of the remaining balance sheet assets in aggregate was less than one year as of both December 31, 2023 and 2022. Economic Value of Equity Simulation Management also uses EVE simulations to measure interest rate risk. EVE sensitivity measures the long-term impact of interest rate changes on the net present value of assets and liabilities, and includes the impact of derivative instruments. While EVE does not have a direct accounting relationship, the measure aims to capture a theoretical value of assets and liabilities under a variety of interest rate environments. EVE is calculated by subjecting the balance sheet to hypothetical instantaneous shifts in the level of interest rates. This analysis is highly dependent upon asset and liability assumptions based on historical behaviors. Key assumptions in our EVE calculation include projection of interest rate scenarios with rate floors, prepayment speeds of mortgage-related investments, term structure models of interest rates, behavior of non-maturity client cash held on the balance sheet, and pricing assumptions. We use both proprietary and independent third-party models to simulate EVE sensitivity and related analyses. We develop and maintain client credits and deposits run-off models internally based on historical experience and prevailing client cash realignment behaviors. We rely on third-party models for term structure modeling, prepayment speed modeling for mortgage-backed securities and mortgage loans, and cash flow projections based on interest income, contractual maturities, and prepayments. As interest rates rose throughout 2023, EVE sensitivity generally trended higher due to a shortening of liability duration. While the Company’s asset duration remained largely stable during the period of rising interest rates, liability duration shortened significantly and is now shorter than asset duration. Bank Deposit Account Fees Simulation Consistent with the presentation on the consolidated statement of income, the sensitivity of bank deposit account fee revenue to interest rate changes is assessed separately from the net interest revenue simulation described above. As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, simulated changes in bank deposit account fee revenue from gradual changes in market interest rates relative to prevailing market rates, under the interest rate scenarios described above for net interest revenue, did not have a significant impact on the Company’s total net revenues. Our net interest revenue, EVE, and bank deposit account fee revenue simulations reflect the assumption of non-negative investment yields. Phase-out of LIBOR Effective June 30, 2023, publication of the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) ceased. Schwab completed all LIBOR transition work that could be done prior to June 30, 2023, though we have continued to monitor and manage the LIBOR substitution for the portfolio of legacy loans that we have for which scheduled interest rate resets or related interest rate transitions will occur in future periods. Certain of the Company’s technology systems and financial models have historically utilized LIBOR. We’ve transitioned our financial models and systems to alternative reference rates, and we continue to monitor - 51 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) our financial models and systems that previously referenced LIBOR. In addition, we have transitioned the Company’s IDA agreement and certain intercompany lending agreements that previously were tied to LIBOR to other appropriate reference rates. The Company’s investment securities that previously referenced LIBOR have transitioned to applicable alternative benchmark indices. The Company’s work to transition from LIBOR is now substantially complete, and we do not expect the phase-out of LIBOR will have a material impact to the Company going forward. Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the potential that Schwab will be unable to sell assets or meet cash flow obligations when they come due without incurring unacceptable losses. Due to its role as a source of financial strength, CSC’s liquidity needs are primarily driven by the liquidity and capital needs of: CS&Co, TD Ameritrade, Inc., and TDAC, our principal broker-dealer subsidiaries; the capital needs of the banking subsidiaries; principal and interest due on corporate debt, and dividend payments on CSC’s preferred and common stock. The liquidity needs of our broker-dealer subsidiaries are primarily driven by client activity including trading and margin lending activities and capital expenditures. The capital needs of the banking subsidiaries are primarily driven by client deposit levels and other borrowings. We have established liquidity policies to support the successful execution of business strategies, while ensuring ongoing and sufficient liquidity to meet operational needs and satisfy applicable regulatory requirements under both normal and stressed conditions. We seek to maintain client confidence in the balance sheet and the safety of client assets by maintaining liquidity and diversity of funding sources to allow the Company to meet its obligations. To this end, we have established limits and contingency funding plans to support liquidity levels during both business as usual and stressed conditions. We employ a variety of metrics to monitor and manage liquidity. We conduct regular liquidity stress testing to develop a view of liquidity risk exposures and to ensure our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity during market-related or company-specific liquidity stress events. Liquidity sources are also tested periodically and results are reported to the Financial Risk Oversight Committee. A number of early warning indicators are monitored to help identify emerging liquidity stresses in the market or within the organization and are reviewed with management periodically. Funding Sources Schwab’s primary source of funds is cash generated by client activity which includes bank deposits and cash balances in client brokerage accounts. These funds are used to purchase investment securities and extend loans to clients. Other sources of funds may include cash flows from operations, maturities and sales of investment securities, repayments on loans, securities lending of assets held in client brokerage accounts, FHLB borrowings, issuance of CDs, cash provided by securities issuances by CSC in the capital markets, and other facilities described below. To meet daily funding needs, we maintain liquidity in the form of overnight cash deposits and short-term investments. For unanticipated liquidity needs, we also maintain a buffer of highly liquid investments, including U.S. Treasury securities. Our clients’ bank deposits and brokerage cash balances primarily originate from our 34.8 million active brokerage accounts. More than 80% of our bank deposits qualified for FDIC insurance as of December 31, 2023. Our clients’ allocation of cash held on our balance sheet as bank deposits or payables to brokerage clients is sensitive to interest rate levels, with clients typically increasing their utilization of investment cash solutions such as purchased money market funds and certain fixed income products when those yields are higher than those of cash sweep features. Schwab’s need for borrowings from external debt facilities arises primarily from timing differences between cash flow requirements, including in the event the outflow of client cash from the balance sheet is greater than cash flows from operations and investment securities and bank loans; payments on interest-earning investments; movements of cash to meet regulatory brokerage client cash segregation requirements; and general corporate purposes. We maintain policies and procedures necessary to access funding, and test borrowing procedures on a periodic basis. Rollover risk is the risk that we will not be able to refinance or payoff borrowings as they mature. We manage rollover risk on borrowings, taking into account expected principal paydowns on our investment and loan portfolios along with expected deposit flows. - 52 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) The following table describes external debt facilities available at December 31, 2023: (1) Amounts shown as available from the FHLB and Federal Reserve facilities represent remaining capacity based on assets pledged as of December 31, 2023. Incremental borrowing capacity may be made available by pledging additional assets, subject to applicable facility terms. See below and Item 8 – Note 12 for additional information. (2) Secured borrowing capacity is made available based on the banking subsidiaries’ or CSC’s ability to provide collateral deemed acceptable by each respective counterparty. See Item 8 – Note 17 for additional information. (3) Secured borrowing capacity is made available based on CS&Co’s or TDAC’s ability to provide acceptable collateral to the lenders as determined by the credit agreements. N/A Not applicable. Available borrowing capacity from the FHLB and Federal Reserve facilities maintained by our banking subsidiaries is dependent on the value of assets pledged and the terms of the borrowing arrangements. As of December 31, 2023, the Company had additional investment securities with a par value of approximately $142 billion or a fair value of approximately $131 billion available to be pledged to obtain additional capacity. These securities could be used to provide additional borrowing capacity of up to $142 billion as of December 31, 2023, dependent on the facility utilized. Additional details regarding availability and use of these facilities is described below. Amounts available under secured credit facilities with the FHLB are dependent on the value of our First Mortgages, HELOCs, and the value of certain of our investment securities that are pledged as collateral. These credit facilities are also available as backup financing in the event the outflow of client cash from the banking subsidiaries’ respective balance sheets is greater than maturities and paydowns on investment securities and bank loans. CSC’s banking subsidiaries must each maintain positive tangible capital, as defined by the Federal Housing Finance Agency, in order to place new draws upon these credit facilities, and the Company manages capital with consideration of minimum tangible capital ratios at our banking subsidiaries. Tangible capital pursuant to the requirements of the FHLB borrowing facilities for our banking subsidiaries is common equity less goodwill and intangible assets. Our banking subsidiaries also have access to short-term secured funding through the Federal Reserve discount window. Amounts available under the Federal Reserve discount window are dependent on the fair value of certain investment securities that are pledged as collateral. Our banking subsidiaries may also engage with external financial institutions in repurchase agreements collateralized by investment securities as another source of short-term liquidity. In addition, our banking subsidiaries are counterparties to the standing repo facility with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York; other than de minimis tests performed to satisfy the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s testing requirements, this facility was not used during 2023 and there were no amounts outstanding at December 31, 2023. Beginning in 2023, CSC maintains a standing bilateral repurchase agreement with an external bank. Other than de minimis tests, this facility was not used during 2023 and there were no amounts outstanding under this facility at December 31, 2023. On March 12, 2023, the Federal Reserve Board announced the creation of a new Bank Term Funding Program, offering loans through March 11, 2024 of up to one year in length to eligible financial institutions with U.S. Treasury securities, agency debt, mortgage-backed securities, and other qualifying assets pledged as collateral. Borrowing capacity available under this program is dependent upon the par value of the investment securities that are pledged as collateral. The Company is eligible to obtain advances under this program. This facility was not used during 2023. CSC’s ratings for Commercial Paper Notes were P1 by Moody’s Investor Service (Moody’s), A2 by Standard & Poor’s Rating Group (Standard & Poor’s), and F1 by Fitch Ratings, Ltd (Fitch) at December 31, 2023. During the second quarter of 2023, - 53 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) Standard & Poor’s downgraded its rating of CSC’s Commercial Paper Notes from A1 to A2, and Moody’s changed its outlook from positive to stable. CSC also has a universal automatic shelf registration statement on file with the SEC, which enables it to issue debt, equity, and other securities. CS&Co maintains uncommitted, unsecured bank credit lines with a group of banks as a source of short-term liquidity, which can also be accessed by CSC. CS&Co also maintains secured, uncommitted lines of credit, under which CS&Co may borrow on a short-term basis and pledge either client margin securities or firm securities as collateral, based on the terms of the agreements. TDAC maintains secured uncommitted lines of credit, under which TDAC borrows on either a demand or short-term basis and pledges client margin securities as collateral. In the fourth quarter of 2022 and in 2023, CSB issued brokered CDs as a supplemental funding source. The following table provides information about brokered CDs issued by CSB and outstanding as of December 31, 2023: Cash Flow Activity As a result of rapidly increasing short-term interest rates beginning in 2022, the Company saw an increase in the pace at which clients moved certain cash balances out of our sweep features and into higher-yielding alternatives at Schwab. As a result of these outflows, our banking subsidiaries have supplemented excess cash on hand and cash generated by maturities and paydowns on our investment securities portfolios with fixed- and floating-rate FHLB advances, repurchase agreements, and issuances of brokered CDs. The average pace of client cash allocations out of sweep products into higher-yielding investment solutions decreased significantly beginning in the second quarter of 2023, and, apart from an increase in August following the Federal Reserve’s July rate increase, continued to decline during the second half of 2023. See also Results of Operations – Net Interest Revenue. In the fourth quarter of 2023, the Company’s FHLB borrowings and total other short-term borrowings decreased by $6.4 billion as a result of repayments during the period. Bank deposits increased during the fourth quarter of 2023 by $5.5 billion, resulting from an increase of $2.8 billion in deposits swept from brokerage accounts due to the slowed pace of client cash realignment decisions and seasonal cash inflows near year-end, as well as an increase of $2.9 billion in brokered CDs. Cash and cash equivalents increased $3.1 billion from year-end 2022 to $43.3 billion at December 31, 2023; cash and cash equivalents, including amounts restricted, increased $15.8 billion to $74.5 billion as of year-end 2023. This increase was driven by net cash provided by investing and operating activities, partially offset by net cash used for financing activities. Bank deposits decreased $76.8 billion in 2023, resulting primarily from a decrease of $113.5 billion in deposits swept from brokerage accounts due to client cash allocation decisions, partially offset by a net increase in brokered CDs of $42.3 billion. Offsetting the decrease in bank deposits, investing cash flows from our AFS and HTM securities totaled $58.9 billion in 2023, cash flows from operating activities totaled $19.6 billion, and the Company increased FHLB borrowings and other short-term borrowings by a total of $15.9 billion in 2023. In 2022, cash and cash equivalents decreased $22.8 billion to end the year at $40.2 billion. Cash and cash equivalents, including amounts restricted, decreased $34.6 billion during 2022 to $58.7 billion at December 31, 2022. This decrease was driven primarily by net cash used for financing activities, partially offset by net cash provided by investing activities. Bank deposits decreased $77.1 billion in 2022, primarily due to a decrease of $78.5 billion in deposits swept from brokerage accounts due to client cash allocation decisions, partially offset by the issuance of $6.0 billion of brokered CDs. In 2022, FHLB borrowings and other short-term borrowings increased $12.2 billion, and investing cash flows from AFS and HTM securities were $39.4 billion. - 54 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) Liquidity Coverage Ratio Schwab is subject to the full LCR rule, which requires the Company to hold HQLA in an amount equal to at least 100% of the Company’s projected net cash outflows over a prospective 30-calendar-day period of acute liquidity stress, calculated on each business day. See Part I – Item 1 – Regulation for additional information. The Company was in compliance with the LCR rule at December 31, 2023, and the table below presents information about our average daily LCR: To support growth in margin loan balances at our broker-dealer subsidiaries while meeting our LCR requirements, the Company may issue commercial paper or draw on secured lines of credit, in addition to capital markets issuances. Net Stable Funding Ratio Schwab is subject to disclosure requirements under the NSFR rule, which requires the semi-annual public disclosure of its NSFR levels beginning in the second quarter of 2023. The NSFR rule stipulates that the Company’s available stable funding (ASF) must be at least 100% of the Company’s required stable funding (RSF). ASF is calculated by assessing the stability of the Company’s funding sources and RSF is calculated by evaluating the characteristics of the Company’s assets, derivatives, and off-balance-sheet exposures. The Company was in compliance with the NSFR rule at December 31, 2023, and the table below presents information about our average NSFR: Long-Term Borrowings The Company’s long-term debt is primarily comprised of Senior Notes and totaled $26.1 billion and $20.8 billion at December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The following table provides information about our Senior Notes outstanding at December 31, 2023: During the second quarter of 2023, Standard and Poor’s downgraded CSC’s and TDA Holding’s long-term issuer credit and senior unsecured debt ratings from A to A- and affirmed its outlook remained stable. Moody’s also affirmed its rating of A2 for CSC and TDA Holding and changed its outlook from positive to stable. - 55 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) New Debt Issuances The below debt issuances in 2023, 2022, and 2021 were senior unsecured obligations. Additional details are as follows: (1) On February 18, 2024, the Company redeemed all of these outstanding floating-rate Senior Notes. (2) Interest rates presented are those in effect at December 31, 2023. For additional information regarding future interest rates on fixed-to-floating rate Senior Notes, see Item 8 – Note 12. During 2021, we completed a debt exchange offer related to certain senior notes issued by TDA Holding for an equivalent amount of senior notes issued by CSC. For further discussion of the exchange, see Item 8 – Note 12. Equity Issuances and Redemptions CSC’s preferred stock issued and net proceeds for 2023, 2022, and 2021 are shown below: On June 1, 2021, the Company redeemed all of the outstanding shares of its 6.00% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C, and the corresponding depositary shares. The depositary shares were redeemed at a redemption price of $25 per depositary share for a total of $600 million. The redemption was funded with the net proceeds from the Series J preferred stock offering. On November 1, 2022, the Company redeemed all of the outstanding shares of its Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A at a redemption price of $1,000 per share for a total of $400 million. On December 1, 2022, the Company redeemed all of the Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series E, and the corresponding depositary shares. The depositary shares were redeemed at a redemption price of $1,000 per depositary share for a total of $600 million. For further discussion, see Item 8 – Note 11 for the Company’s bank deposits, Item 8 – Note 12 for the Company’s outstanding debt and borrowing facilities, and Item 8 – Note 19 for equity outstanding balances and activity. Contractual Obligations Schwab’s principal contractual obligations as of December 31, 2023 include payments on brokered CDs; payments on FHLB borrowings, other short-term borrowings, and long-term debt; lease payments including legally-binding minimum lease payments for leases signed but not yet commenced; credit-related financial instruments, representing our banking subsidiaries’ commitments to extend credit to banking clients, purchase mortgage loans, and fund CRA investments; and purchase obligations for services such as advertising and marketing, telecommunications, hardware- and software-related agreements, and professional services. For information on our contractual obligations for brokered CDs, FHLB borrowings, other short-term borrowings, long-term debt, leases, and credit-related financial instruments, see Item 8 – Notes 11, 12, 13, and 14. As of - 56 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) December 31, 2023, the Company had total short-term purchase obligations of $537 million and total long-term purchase obligations of $439 million. Schwab also enters into guarantees and other similar arrangements in the ordinary course of business. For information on these arrangements, see Item 8 – Notes 5, 6, 10, 12, 14, and 17. Pursuant to the 2023 IDA agreement, certain brokerage client deposits are required to be swept off-balance sheet to the TD Depository Institutions. See Item 8 – Note 14 for additional information on the 2023 IDA agreement. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Schwab seeks to manage capital to a level and composition sufficient to support execution of our business strategy, inclusive of balance sheet growth over time, management of the 2023 IDA agreement, financial support to our subsidiaries, sustained access to the capital markets, and regulatory capital requirements. Schwab also seeks to return excess capital to stockholders. We may return excess capital through such activities as dividends, repurchases of common shares, preferred stock redemptions, and repurchases of our preferred stock represented by depositary shares. Schwab’s primary sources of capital are funds generated by the operations of subsidiaries and securities issuances by CSC in the capital markets. To ensure that Schwab has sufficient capital to absorb unanticipated losses or declines in asset values, we have adopted a policy to remain well capitalized even in stressed scenarios. Internal guidelines are set, for both CSC and its regulated subsidiaries, to ensure capital levels are in line with our strategy and regulatory requirements. Capital forecasts are reviewed monthly at Asset-Liability Management and Pricing Committee and Financial Risk Oversight Committee meetings and regularly at meetings of the Board of Directors. A number of early warning indicators are monitored to help identify potential developments that could negatively impact capital. In addition, we monitor the subsidiaries’ capital levels and requirements. Subject to regulatory capital requirements and any required approvals, any excess capital held by subsidiaries is transferred to CSC in the form of dividends and returns of capital. At the banking subsidiaries, dividends and returns of capital are managed with consideration of minimum tangible common equity and regulatory capital requirements. When subsidiaries have need of additional capital, funds are provided by CSC as equity investments and also as subordinated loans. The details and method used for each cash infusion are based on an analysis of the particular entity’s needs and financing alternatives. The amounts and structure of infusions take into consideration maintenance of regulatory capital requirements, debt/equity ratios, and equity double leverage ratios. Schwab conducts regular capital stress testing to assess the potential financial impacts of various adverse macroeconomic and company-specific events to which the Company could be subjected. The objective of the capital stress testing is (1) to explore various potential outcomes – including rare and extreme events and (2) to assess impacts of potential stressful outcomes on both capital and liquidity (see also Risk Management – Liquidity Risk for discussion of liquidity stress testing). Additionally, we have a comprehensive Capital Contingency Plan to provide action plans for certain low probability/high impact capital events that the Company might face. The Capital Contingency Plan is issued under the authority of the Financial Risk Oversight Committee and provides guidelines for sustained capital events. It does not specifically address every contingency, but is designed to provide a framework for responding to any capital stress. The results of the stress testing indicate there are two scenarios which could stress the Company’s capital: (1) inflows of balance sheet cash during a period of very low interest rates and (2) outflows of balance sheet cash when other sources of financing are not available and the Company is required to sell assets to fund the flows at a loss. The Capital Contingency Plan is reviewed annually and updated as appropriate. For additional information, see Business – Regulation in Part I – Item 1. Regulatory Capital Requirements CSC is subject to capital requirements set by the Federal Reserve and is required to serve as a source of strength for our banking subsidiaries and to provide financial assistance if our banking subsidiaries experience financial distress. Schwab is required to maintain a Tier 1 Leverage Ratio for CSC of at least 4%, and has maintained a long-term operating objective for the consolidated Tier 1 Leverage Ratio of 6.50%-6.75%. Due to the relatively low credit risk of our balance sheet assets and risk-based capital ratios at CSC and CSB that are in excess of regulatory requirements, the Tier 1 Leverage Ratio is the most restrictive capital constraint on CSC’s asset growth. Our banking subsidiaries are subject to capital requirements set by their regulators that are substantially similar to those imposed on CSC by the Federal Reserve. Our banking subsidiaries’ failure to remain well capitalized could result in certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary actions by the regulators that could have a direct material effect on the banks. Schwab’s principal banking subsidiary, CSB, is required to maintain a Tier 1 Leverage Ratio of at least 5% to be well - 57 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) capitalized, but has sought to maintain a ratio of at least 6.25%. Based on its regulatory capital ratios at December 31, 2023, CSB is considered well capitalized. In July 2023, the Federal Reserve issued a notice of proposed changes to the regulatory capital rules that would require us to include AOCI in regulatory capital, phased in over a three-year transition period beginning July 1, 2025 (see Current Regulatory and Other Developments). In anticipation of the rules being adopted, the Company’s capital management for consolidated CSC, CSB, and our other banking subsidiaries now incorporates measures that are inclusive of AOCI. See below and Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information. Our banking subsidiaries are required to provide notice to, and may be required to obtain approval from, the Federal Reserve and the banking subsidiaries’ state regulators in order to declare and pay dividends to CSC. In future periods, we may be required to obtain approval from the Federal Reserve for our banking subsidiaries to declare and pay dividends in excess of the amount of recent net income and retained earnings. As broker-dealers, CS&Co, TDAC, and TD Ameritrade, Inc., are subject to regulatory requirements of the Uniform Net Capital Rule, which is intended to ensure the general financial soundness and liquidity of broker-dealers. These regulations prohibit the broker-dealer subsidiaries from paying cash dividends, making unsecured advances and loans to CSC and employees, and repaying subordinated borrowings from CSC if such payment would result in a net capital amount below prescribed thresholds. At December 31, 2023, CS&Co, TDAC, and TD Ameritrade, Inc. were in compliance with their respective net capital requirements. In addition to the capital requirements above, Schwab’s subsidiaries are subject to other regulatory requirements intended to ensure financial soundness and liquidity. See Item 8 – Notes 19 and 23 for additional information on the components of stockholders’ equity and information on the capital requirements of significant subsidiaries and CSC consolidated. The following table details the capital ratios for CSC consolidated and CSB: (1) Changes in market interest rates can result in unrealized gains or losses on AFS securities, which are included in AOCI. As a Category III banking organization, CSC has elected to exclude AOCI from regulatory capital. The Company’s consolidated Tier 1 Leverage Ratio increased to 8.5% at December 31, 2023 from 7.2% at year-end 2022. This increase was due primarily to a decrease in the Company’s total assets and 2023 net income. Total balance sheet assets decreased $58.6 billion, or 11%, during 2023 primarily driven by a decrease of $89.4 billion, or 19%, in total bank deposits and payables to brokerage clients due to client cash allocation decisions resulting from the rising interest rate environment. CSB’s - 58 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) Tier 1 Leverage Ratio also increased from year-end 2022, ending 2023 at 10.1% primarily as a result of lower total assets and capital contributions from CSC as well as 2023 net income. In light of the Federal Reserve’s 2023 regulatory capital rule proposal, which among other things, would require the Company to include AOCI in regulatory capital, the Company has developed an adjusted Tier 1 Leverage Ratio, which is a non-GAAP financial measure that includes AOCI in the ratio. The primary component of AOCI for Schwab is unrealized gains and losses on our AFS investment securities portfolio and on securities transferred from AFS to the HTM category. As of December 31, 2023, our adjusted Tier 1 Leverage Ratio, which includes AOCI in the ratio, was 4.9% for CSC consolidated and 5.4% for CSB (see Non-GAAP Financial Measures for further details and a reconciliation of such measures to GAAP reported results). The Company is continuing to retain and accrete capital organically well ahead of the Federal Reserve’s proposed regulatory capital rules’ transition period. During 2022, the Company transferred investment securities from the AFS category to the HTM category, with aggregate fair values of $188.6 billion and net unrealized losses at the time of transfer of $18.2 billion. The transfer of these securities to the HTM category reduces the Company’s exposure to fluctuations in AOCI that can result from unrealized gains and losses on AFS securities due to changes in market interest rates. The unrealized loss at the time of transfer is amortized over the remaining life of the security, offsetting the amortization of the security’s premium or discount, and resulting in no impact to net income. IDA Agreement Certain brokerage client deposits are swept off-balance sheet to the TD Depository Institutions pursuant to the 2023 IDA agreement. During 2023, Schwab did not move IDA balances to its balance sheet, and during 2022, Schwab moved net amounts of $13.7 billion of IDA balances to its balance sheet. The Company’s overall capital management strategy includes supporting migration of IDA balances in future periods as available pursuant to the terms of the 2023 IDA agreement. The Company’s ability to migrate these balances to its balance sheet is dependent upon multiple factors including having sufficient capital levels to sustain these incremental deposits. See Item 8 – Note 14 for further information on the 2023 IDA agreement. Dividends Since the initial dividend in 1989, and as of December 31, 2023, CSC has paid 139 consecutive quarterly dividends and has increased the quarterly dividend rate 28 times, resulting in a 20% compounded annual growth rate, excluding the special cash dividend of $1.00 per common share in 2007. While the payment and amount of dividends are at the discretion of the Board of Directors, subject to certain regulatory and other restrictions, CSC currently targets its common and nonvoting common stock cash dividend at approximately 20% to 30% of net income. The Board of Directors of the Company declared a quarterly cash dividend increase per common share during 2023 as shown below: - 59 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) The following table details CSC’s cash dividends paid and per share amounts: (1) Series A was redeemed on November 1, 2022. Prior to redemption, dividends were paid semi-annually until February 1, 2022 and quarterly thereafter. The final dividend was paid on November 1, 2022. (2) Dividends are paid quarterly. (3) Series E was redeemed on December 1, 2022. Prior to redemption, dividends were paid semi-annually until March 1, 2022 and quarterly thereafter. The final dividend was paid on December 1, 2022. (4) Dividends are paid semi-annually until December 1, 2027 and quarterly thereafter. (5) Series K was issued on March 4, 2022. Dividends are paid quarterly, and the first dividend was paid on June 1, 2022. N/A Not applicable. In addition, on January 24, 2024, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a dividend of $.25 per common share. Share Repurchases On July 27, 2022, CSC publicly announced that its Board of Directors approved a new share repurchase authorization to repurchase up to $15.0 billion of common stock, replacing the previous and now terminated share repurchase authorization of up to $4.0 billion of common stock. The new share repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date. On August 1, 2022, CSC purchased, directly from an affiliate of TD Bank, 15 million shares of nonvoting common stock for a total of $1.0 billion, or approximately $66.53 per share. The shares of nonvoting common stock automatically converted into common stock and were purchased under CSC’s new share repurchase authorization. The purchase price paid by CSC was equal to the lowest price per share that the affiliate of TD Bank received in a contemporaneous share sale facilitated by a third-party market maker, which resulted in a purchase price lower than the closing price on August 1, 2022. CSC repurchased an additional 32 million shares of its common stock under the new authorization for $2.4 billion during the year ended December 31, 2022. CSC repurchased 37 million shares of its common stock under the new authorization for $2.8 billion during 2023; we did not initiate repurchases after the first quarter of 2023. As of December 31, 2023, approximately $8.7 billion remained on the new authorization. There were no repurchases of CSC’s common stock under the terminated authorization during 2022. The Company repurchased 11,620 depositary shares representing interests in Series F preferred stock for $11 million, 42,036 depositary shares representing interests in Series G preferred stock for $42 million, 273,251 depositary shares representing interests in Series H preferred stock for $235 million, and 194,567 depositary shares representing interests in Series I preferred stock for $179 million on the open market during 2023; we did not initiate repurchases after the first quarter of 2023 . The repurchase prices are inclusive of $3 million of dividends accrued by the stockholders as of the repurchase date. Beginning in 2023, share repurchases, net of issuances, are subject to a nondeductible 1% excise tax which was recognized as a direct and incremental cost associated with these transactions. For repurchases of common stock, the tax is recorded as part of the cost basis of the treasury stock repurchased, resulting in no impact to the consolidated statement of income. For repurchases of preferred stock, the tax impact is included within preferred stock dividends and other on the consolidated statement of income. FOREIGN EXPOSURE At December 31, 2023, Schwab had exposure to non-sovereign financial and non-financial institutions in foreign countries, as well as agencies of foreign governments. At December 31, 2023, the fair value of these holdings totaled $12.8 billion, with the top three exposures being to issuers and counterparties domiciled in the United Kingdom at $5.0 billion, France at $3.2 billion, - 60 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) and Canada at $1.5 billion. At December 31, 2022, the fair value of these holdings totaled $16.4 billion, with the top three exposures being to issuers and counterparties domiciled in France at $5.1 billion, the United Kingdom at $4.8 billion, and Canada at $1.7 billion. In addition, Schwab had outstanding margin loans to foreign residents of $2.5 billion at both December 31, 2023 and 2022. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Schwab uses the market approach to determine the fair value of certain financial assets and liabilities recorded at fair value, and to determine fair value disclosures. See Item 8 – Notes 2 and 18 for more information on our assets and liabilities recorded at fair value. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The consolidated financial statements of Schwab have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. Item 8 – Note 2 contains more information on our significant accounting policies made in applying these accounting principles. While the majority of the revenues, expenses, assets, and liabilities are not based on estimates, there are certain accounting principles that require management to make estimates regarding matters that are uncertain and susceptible to change where such change may result in a material adverse impact on Schwab’s financial position and financial results. These critical accounting estimates are described below. Management regularly reviews the estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the financial statements for reasonableness and adequacy. Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Additionally, management has reviewed with the Audit Committee the Company’s significant estimates discussed in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Income Taxes Schwab estimates income tax expense based on amounts expected to be owed to the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate, including federal, state and local domestic jurisdictions, and immaterial amounts owed to several foreign jurisdictions. The estimated income tax expense is reported in the consolidated statements of income in taxes on income. Accrued taxes are reported in other assets or accrued expenses and other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets and represent the net estimated amount due to or to be received from taxing jurisdictions either currently or deferred to future periods. Deferred taxes arise from differences between assets and liabilities measured for financial reporting purposes versus income tax reporting purposes. Deferred tax assets are recognized if, in management’s judgment, their realizability is determined to be more likely than not. Uncertain tax positions that meet the more likely than not recognition threshold are measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize. An uncertain tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit management believes is more likely than not to be realized upon settlement. In estimating accrued taxes, we assess the relative merits and risks of the appropriate tax treatment considering statutory, judicial and regulatory guidance in the context of the tax position. Because of the complexity of tax laws and regulations, interpretation can be difficult and subject to legal judgment given specific facts and circumstances. Changes in the estimate of accrued taxes occur periodically due to changes in tax rates, interpretations of tax laws, the status of examinations being conducted by various taxing authorities, and newly enacted statutory, judicial, and regulatory guidance that impacts the relative merits and risks of tax positions. These changes, when they occur, affect accrued taxes and can be significant to the operating results of the Company. See Item 8 – Note 22 for more information on the Company’s income taxes. Legal and Regulatory Reserves Reserves for legal and regulatory claims and proceedings reflect an estimate of probable losses for each matter, after considering, among other factors, the progress of the case, prior experience and the experience of others in similar cases, available defenses, and the opinions and views of legal counsel. In many cases, including most class action lawsuits, it is not possible to determine whether a loss will be incurred, or to estimate the range of that loss, until the matter is close to resolution, in which case no accrual is made until that time. Reserves are adjusted as more information becomes available. Significant judgment is required in making these estimates, and the actual cost of resolving a matter may ultimately differ materially from the amount reserved. See Item 8 – Note 14 for more information on the Company’s contingencies related to legal and regulatory reserves. - 61 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES In addition to disclosing financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (GAAP), Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contain references to the non-GAAP financial measures described below. We believe these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful supplemental information about the financial performance of the Company, and facilitate meaningful comparison of Schwab’s results in the current period to both historic and future results. These non-GAAP measures should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and may not be comparable to non-GAAP financial measures presented by other companies. Schwab’s use of non-GAAP measures is reflective of certain adjustments made to GAAP financial measures as described below. Beginning in the third quarter of 2023, these adjustments also include restructuring costs, which the Company began incurring in connection with its previously announced plans to streamline its operations to prepare for post-integration of TD Ameritrade. See Item 8 – Note 15 for additional information. The Company also uses adjusted diluted EPS and return on tangible common equity as components of performance criteria for employee bonus and certain executive management incentive compensation arrangements. The Compensation Committee of CSC’s Board of Directors maintains discretion in evaluating performance against these criteria. - 62 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Tabular Amounts in Millions, Except Ratios, or as Noted) The following tables present reconciliations of GAAP measures to non-GAAP measures: (1) Acquisition and integration-related costs for 2023 primarily consist of $187 million of compensation and benefits, $135 million of professional services, $28 million of occupancy and equipment, and $27 million of other. Acquisition and integration-related costs for 2022 primarily consist of $220 million of compensation and benefits, $140 million of professional services, and $21 million of occupancy and equipment. Acquisition and integration-related costs for 2021 primarily consist of $283 million of compensation and benefits, $132 million of professional services, and $39 million of occupancy and equipment. (2) Restructuring costs for 2023 primarily consist of $292 million of compensation and benefits, $17 million of occupancy and equipment, and $181 million of other. There were no restructuring costs for 2022 and 2021. (1) The income tax effects of the non-GAAP adjustments are determined using an effective tax rate reflecting the exclusion of non-deductible acquisition costs and are used to present the acquisition and integration-related costs, amortization of acquired intangible assets and restructuring costs on an after-tax basis. (1) See table above for the reconciliation of net income available to common stockholders to adjusted net income available to common stockholders (non-GAAP). - 63 - THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION