********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Our business, operations, and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. The following risk factors should be carefully considered, together with the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC, in connection with evaluating the Company, our business, and the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. Although the risks are organized and described separately, many of the risks are interrelated. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect us. The occurrence of any of these known or unknown risks could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 10 Risks Related to Our Business Deterioration of national and global macroeconomic conditions, an economic recession or slow growth, periods of inflation, or economic uncertainty in key markets may adversely affect consumer spending and demand for our products. National and global macroeconomic conditions can be uncertain and volatile. We have in the past been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by changes in national and global macroeconomic conditions, such as inflation, rising interest rates, tax rates, availability of capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs, supply chain challenges, labor shortages, geopolitical conflicts (including the ongoing conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and Israel and Hamas), the negative impacts caused by pandemics and public health crises, and growing recession risk. Volatility in financial markets and deterioration of national and global macroeconomic conditions could impact our business and results of operations in a number of ways, including, but not limited to, the following: • financial instability of our customers and suppliers could result in additional bad debts or non-performance; • value of our investments in debt and equity securities may decline; • future volatility or disruption in the capital and credit markets could negatively impact our liquidity or increase costs of borrowing; • an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill, other intangible assets, or other long-lived assets, or a change in the useful life of finite-lived intangible assets could occur if there are sustained changes in consumer purchasing behaviors, government restrictions, financial results, or a deterioration of macroeconomic conditions; • volatility in commodity and other input costs could continue due to adverse macroeconomic conditions; and • consumers could choose to purchase private label or competitive products of our lower-priced products as a result of an economic downturn. These and other impacts of global and national macroeconomic conditions could also heighten many of the other risk factors discussed in this section. Our sensitivity to economic cycles and any related fluctuation in consumer demand could negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Our operations are subject to the general risks associated with acquisitions, divestitures, and restructuring programs. Specifically, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of Hostess Brands, or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. We may also encounter significant unexpected difficulties in integrating the Hostess Brands business and may be unable to effectively manage stranded overhead resulting from recent divestitures. Our stated strategic vision is to engage, delight, and inspire consumers by building brands they love and leading in growing categories. We have historically made strategic acquisitions of brands and businesses and intend to do so in the future in support of this strategy. If we are unable to complete acquisitions or successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses, including the effective management of integration and related restructuring costs, we could fail to achieve the anticipated synergies and cost savings, or the expected increases in revenues and operating results. Additional acquisition risks include the diversion of management attention from our existing business, potential loss of key employees, suppliers, or consumers from the acquired business, assumption of unknown risks and liabilities, and greater than anticipated operating costs of the acquired business. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In particular, our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of Hostess Brands will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate the Hostess Brands business into our Company. The combination of two independent businesses is a complex, costly, and time-consuming process. As a result, we will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating Hostess Brands’ business practices and operations. The integration process may disrupt the businesses and, if implemented ineffectively or if impacted by unforeseen negative economic or market conditions or other factors, we may not realize the full anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Our failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating the two businesses and to realize the anticipated benefi ts of the acquisition could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, our activities and could adversely affect our results of operations or cash flows, cause dilution to our earnings per share, decrease or delay any accretive effect of the transactions, and negatively impact the price of our common shares. 11 Specifically, the difficulties of combining the operations of Hostess Brands with our business include, among others: • the diversion of management’s attention to integration matters; • difficulty in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities, and growth prospects from combining the Hostess Brands business with our business; • difficulties in the integration of operations and systems, inclusive of internal controls; • difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company; • challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; • challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel; • unanticipated expenses resulting from integration activities and disputes with third parties; and • unanticipated liabilities, such as environmental liabilities resulting from contamination at our properties or those of third parties. In addition, we have made strategic divestitures of brands and businesses, including the recently divested Sahale Snacks and Canada condiment businesses, as well as past divestitures of certain pet food brands, the natural beverage and grains, and private label dry pet food businesses, among others, and we may continue to do so in the future. If we are unable to complete divestitures or successfully transition divested businesses, including the effective management of the related separation and stranded overhead costs, transition services, and the maintenance of relationships with customers, suppliers, and other business partners, our business and financial results could be negatively impacted. Further, we may incur asset impairment charges related to divestitures that reduce our profitability. Divestitures and related restructuring and integration costs require a significant amount of management and operational resources. These additional demands could divert management’s attention from core business operations, potentially adversely impacting existing business relationships and employee morale, resulting in negative impacts on our financial performance. For more information, see Note 2: Acquisition , Note 3: Divestitures, and Note 4: Special Project Costs. Further, associated with the divestiture of certain pet food brands, we entered into a contract manufacturing agreement with Post that will continue into 2025. As a result, a portion of net sales within the pet food product categories is associated with this agreement. Any change to this agreement could affect our operating results. For more information, see Note 5: Reportable Segments. Our proprietary brands, packaging designs, and manufacturing methods are essential to the value of our business, and the inability to protect our intellectual property could harm the value of our brands and adversely affect our sales and profitability. The success of our business depends significantly on our brands, know-how, and other intellectual property. We rely on a combination of trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, patents, copyrights, licensing agreements, and similar rights to protect our intellectual property. The success of our growth strategy depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks and service marks in order to maintain and increase brand awareness and further develop our brands. If our efforts to protect our intellectual property are not adequate, such as in the event of a cybersecurity incident, if any third party misappropriates or infringes on our intellectual property, or if we are alleged to be misappropriating or infringing on the intellectual property rights of others, the value of our brands may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. From time to time, we are engaged in litigation to protect our intellectual property, which could result in substantial costs as well as diversion of management attention. In particular, we consider our proprietary coffee roasting methods essential to the consistent flavor and richness of our coffee products and, therefore, essential to our coffee brands. Because many of the roasting methods we use are considered our trade secrets and not protected by patents, it may be difficult for us to prevent competitors from copying our coffee products if such coffee roasting methods are independently discovered or become generally known in the industry. We also believe that our packaging innovations, such as our AromaSeal ™ canisters, are important to the coffee business’ marketing and operational efforts. In addition, we utilize a number of proprietary methods for manufacturing our Smucker’s Uncrustables frozen sandwiches, which we believe are essential to producing high-quality sandwiches that consistently meet consumer expectations. Since the current methods used in making our sandwiches are considered our trade secrets and not protected by patents, it may be difficult for us to prevent competitors from copying our sandwiches if such sandwich-making methods are independently discovered or become generally known in the industry. If our competitors copy or develop more advanced coffee roasting or packaging or sandwich-making methods, the value of our coffee products or Smucker’s Uncrustables brand, respectively, may be diminished, and we could lose customers to our competitors. 12 In addition, certain of our intellectual property rights, including the Dunkin’ trademarks, are owned by third parties and licensed to us. These trademarks are renegotiated and renewed pursuant to their terms, and if in the future, we are unable to renew or fail to renegotiate the licensing arrangements, then our financial results could be materially and negatively affected. Loss or interruption of supply from primary or single-source suppliers of raw materials and finished goods could have a disruptive effect on our business and adversely affect our results of operations. We have elected to source certain raw materials, such as packaging for our Folgers coffee products, as well as our Jif peanut butter, and certain finished goods, such as K-Cup ® pods, our Pup-Peroni dog snacks, and liquid coffee, from primary or single sources of supply. While we believe that, except as set forth below, alternative sources of these raw materials and finished goods could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms, loss or an extended interruption in supplies from a primary or single-source supplier would result in additional costs, could have a disruptive short-term effect on our business, and could adversely affect our results of operations. Keurig is our single-source supplier for K-Cup ® pods, which are used in its proprietary Keurig ® K-Cup ® brewing system. In addition, JDE Peet’s N.V. (“JDE Peet’s”) is our single-source supplier for liquid coffee for our Away From Home business, and there are a limited number of manufacturers other than JDE Peet’s that are able to manufacture liquid coffee. Further, Graham Packaging Company, L.P. (“Graham Packaging”) is our single-source supplier for the packaging of our Folgers coffee products. If either Keurig, JDE Peet’s, or Graham Packaging is unable to supply K-Cup ® pods, liquid coffee, or packaging for Folgers coffee products, respectively, to us for any reason, it could be difficult to find an alternative supplier for such goods on commercially reasonable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Certain of our products are produced at single manufacturing sites. We have consolidated our production capacity for certain products into single manufacturing sites, including substantially all of our coffee, Milk-Bone dog snacks, Voortman cookies, and fruit spreads. We could experience a production disruption at these or any of our manufacturing sites resulting in a reduction or elimination of the availability of some of our products. If we are not able to obtain alternate production capability in a timely manner, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. A significant interruption in the operation of any of our supply chain or distribution capabilities could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our ability and the ability of our third-party suppliers, service providers, distributors, and contract manufacturers to manufacture, distribute, and sell products is critical to our success. A significant interruption in the operation of any of our manufacturing or distribution capabilities, or the manufacturing or distribution capabilities of our suppliers, distributors, or contract manufacturers, or a service failure by a third-party service provider, whether as a result of adverse weather conditions or a natural disaster, fire, or water availability, as a result of climate change or otherwise; work stoppage or labor shortages; cybersecurity breaches; political instability, terrorism, or geopolitical conflicts (including the ongoing conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and Israel and Hamas); pandemic illness; government restrictions, or other causes could significantly impair our ability to operate our business. In particular, substantially all of our coffee production takes place in New Orleans, Louisiana and is subject to risks associated with hurricane and other weather-related events, and some of our production facilities are located in places where tornadoes or wildfires can frequently occur, such as Alabama, Kansas, Arkansas, and California. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate or insure against the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. While we insure against many of these events and certain business interruption risks and have policies and procedures to manage business continuity planning, such insurance may not compensate us for any losses incurred and our business continuity plans may not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner. In November 2021, we announced plans to invest $1.1 billion to build a new manufacturing facility and distribution center in McCalla, Alabama dedicated to the production of Smucker’s Uncrustables frozen sandwiches. Construction of this facility began in 2022, with production expected to begin in 2025. Production of new manufacturing facilities and distribution centers could cause delays and increased costs, such as shortages of materials or skilled labor, unforeseen construction, scheduling, engineering, or environmental problems, impacts of adverse weather, and unanticipated cost increases. If we are unable to commence production at the McCalla facility within the anticipated timeframe, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 13 Our business could be harmed by strikes or work stoppages. As of April 30, 2024, 27 percent of our full-time employees, located at eleven manufacturing locations, are covered by collective bargaining agreements, inclusive of Hostess Brands employees. These contracts vary in term depending on location, with six contracts expiring in 2025, representing approximately 10 percent of our total employees. We cannot be certain that we will be able to renew these collective bargaining agreements on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreements, or at all, without production interruptions caused by labor stoppages. If a strike or work stoppage were to occur in connection with negotiations of a new collective bargaining agreement or as a result of disputes under collective bargaining agreements with labor unions, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The success of our business depends substantially on consumer perceptions of our brands. We are the branded market leader in several categories both in the U.S. and Canada. We believe that maintaining and continually enhancing the value of our brands is critical to the success of our business. Brand value is based, in large part, on consumer perceptions. Success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends on our ability to provide high-quality products. Brand value could diminish significantly as a result of a number of factors, such as if we fail to preserve the quality of our products, if there are concerns about the safety of our products, if we are perceived to act in an irresponsible manner, if the Company or our brands otherwise receive negative publicity, if our brands fail to deliver a consistently positive consumer experience, or if our products become unavailable to consumers. The growing use of social and digital media by consumers increases the speed and extent that information and opinions can be shared. Negative posts or comments about us, our brands, or products on social or digital media could damage our brands and reputation. If we are unable to build and sustain brand equity by offering recognizably superior products, we may be unable to maintain premium pricing over private label products. If our brand values are diminished, our revenues and operating results could be materially adversely affected. In addition, anything that harms the Dunkin’ brand could adversely affect the success of our exclusive licensing agreements with the owner of that brand. We may not be able to attract, develop, and retain the highly skilled people we need to support our business, and our results could be adversely impacted as a result of increased labor and employee-related expenses. We depend on the skills and continued service of key employees, including our experienced management team. In addition, our ability to achieve our strategic and operating goals depends on our ability to identify, recruit, hire, train, and retain qualified individuals, including, for example, all levels of skilled labor in our manufacturing facilities. We compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented people, and we may lose key employees or fail to attract, recruit, train, develop, and retain other talented individuals. Any such loss, failure, or negative perception with respect to these individuals may adversely affect our business or financial results. In addition, activities related to identifying, recruiting, hiring, integrating, and training qualified individuals may require significant time and expense. We may not be able to locate suitable replacements for any key employees who leave or to offer employment to potential replacements on reasonable terms, each of which may adversely affect our business and financial results. Over the past few years, particularly related to operations, we have experienced an increasingly competitive labor market, lack of skilled labor with advanced capabilities developed over the course of a career, labor inflation, labor shortages in our supply chain as a result of national and global macroeconomic conditions, and like most in the national workforce, an increased demand for greater flexibility and control over work schedules. These challenges have resulted in, and could continue to result in, increased costs and could impact our ability to meet consumer demand, each of which may adversely affect our business and financial results. We may not realize the benefits we expect from our cost reduction and other cash management initiatives. We continuously review our operations in an effort to pursue initiatives to reduce costs, increase effectiveness, and optimize cash flow. We may not realize all of the anticipated cost savings or other benefits from such initiatives. Other events and circumstances, such as financial or strategic difficulties, delays, or unexpected costs, may also adversely impact our ability to realize all of the anticipated cost savings or other benefits, or cause us not to realize such cost savings or other benefits on the expected timetable. If we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits, our ability to fund other initiatives may be adversely affected. Finally, the complexity of the implementation may require a substantial amount of management and operational resources. Our management team must successfully execute the administrative and operational changes necessary to achieve the anticipated benefits of the initiatives. These and related demands on our resources may divert the organization’s attention 14 from other business issues, have adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, and impact employee morale. Any failure to implement these initiatives in accordance with our plans could adversely affect our business, operating efficiency, and financial results. During 2023, we created a Transformation Office to support our multi-year commitment to ongoing margin enhancement efforts, inclusive of the removal of stranded overhead costs associated with the recent divestitures of certain pet food brands, Sahale Snacks , and the Canada condiment businesses. The Transformation Office is focused on enterprise-wide continuous improvement strategies to ensure a pipeline of productivity initiatives and profit growth opportunities. It is comprised of cross-functional leaders at every level of our organization who help to establish new ways of working, along with sustainable efficiencies and cost reduction efforts throughout our Company. If we are unable to successfully implement our transformation initiatives, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our success will depend on our continued ability to produce and successfully market products with extended shelf life. We have made investments to extend our Hostess Brands ’ product shelf life, while maintaining such products ’ taste, texture, and quality. Extended shelf life (“ESL”) is an important component of our Direct-to-Warehouse model. Our ability to produce and successfully market existing and new products with ESL is important to our success. If we are unable to continue to produce Hostess Brands products with ESL or if such products are not accepted by consumers, we could be forced to make changes to our distribution model or products that could have an adverse effect on our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. Risks Related to Our Industry Our operations are subject to the general risks of the food industry. The food industry is subject to risks posed by food spoilage and contamination, product tampering, mislabeling, food allergens, adulteration of food products resulting in product recall, consumer product liability claims, or regulatory investigations or actions. Our operations could be impacted by both genuine and fictitious claims regarding our products as well as our competitors’ products. In the event of product contamination, tampering, or mislabeling, we may need to recall some of our products. A widespread product recall could result in significant loss due to the cost of conducting a product recall, including destruction of inventory and the loss of sales resulting from the unavailability of product for a period of time. We could also suffer losses from a significant judgment or settlement of a claim or litigation or a regulatory action taken against us. In addition, we could be the target of claims of false or deceptive advertising under U.S. federal and state laws as well as foreign laws, including consumer protection statutes of some states. A significant product recall, a product liability judgment or settlement, a regulatory action, or false advertising claim, involving either us or our competitors, could also result in a loss of consumer confidence in our food products or the food category, and an actual or perceived loss of value of our brands, materially impacting consumer demand. In May 2022, we initiated a voluntary recall of select Jif peanut butter products produced at our Lexington, Kentucky facility and sold primarily in the U.S., due to potential salmonella contamination. During 2023 and 2022, we recognized total direct costs associated with the recall of approximately $120.0, net of insurance recoveries, related to customer returns, fees, unsaleable inventory, and other product recall-related costs, primarily within our U.S. Retail Frozen Handheld and Spreads segment. There were no significant direct costs recognized during 2024. Further, the FDA issued a Warning Letter on January 24, 2023, following an inspection of our Lexington facility completed in June 2022 in connection with the Jif voluntary recall, identifying concerns regarding certain practices and controls at the facility. We responded to the Warning Letter with a detailed explanation of our food safety plan and extensive verification activities to prevent contamination in Jif peanut butter products. In addition, we strengthened our already stringent quality processes. The FDA delivered its Establishment Inspection Report concluding the June 2022 inspection in March 2024. Although the FDA has concluded its inspection, other agencies may nonetheless conclude that certain practices or controls were not in compliance with the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act ( “FDCA”) or other laws. Any potential regulatory action based on such an agency conclusion could result in the imposition of injunctive terms and monetary payments that could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, brand, results of operations, and financial performance, as well as affect ongoing consumer litigation associated with the voluntary recall of Jif peanut butter products. The outcome and financial impact of the ongoing consumer litigation or any potential regulatory action associated with the Jif voluntary recall cannot be predicted at this time. Accordingly, no loss contingency has been recorded for these matters as of April 30, 2024, and the likelihood of loss is not considered probable or reasonably estimable. 15 Changes in our relationships with significant customers, including the loss of our largest customer, could adversely affect our results of operations. Sales to Walmart Inc. and subsidiaries amounted to 33 percent of net sales in 2024. These sales are primarily included in our U.S. retail market segments. Trade receivables – net at April 30, 2024, included amounts due from Walmart Inc. and subsidiaries of $211.7, or 29 percent of the total trade receivables – net balance. During 2024, our top 10 customers, collectively, accounted for approximately 60 percent of consolidated net sales. We expect that a significant portion of our revenues will continue to be derived from a limited number of customers as the traditional retail grocery environment continues to consolidate and as dollar stores, club stores, and e-commerce retailers have experienced growth. Our customers are generally not contractually obligated to purchase from us as we do not have long-term supply contracts with any of our major customers. These customers make purchase decisions based on a combination of price, promotional support, product quality, consumer demand, customer service performance, their desired inventory levels, and other factors. Changes in customers’ strategies, including a reduction in the number of brands they carry or a shift of shelf space to private label products or other companies’ branded products, may adversely affect sales and profitability. Customers also may respond to price increases by reducing distribution, resulting in reduced sales of our products. Additionally, our customers may face financial or other difficulties that may impact their operations and their purchases from us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. A reduction in sales to one or more major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We operate in the competitive food industry and continued demand for our products may be affected by our failure to effectively compete or by changes in consumer preferences. We face competition across our product lines from other food and snack companies with competition based primarily on pro duct quality, price, packaging, product innovation, nutritional value, ingredient content, taste, convenience, customer service, advertising, promotion, and brand recognition and loyalty. Continued success is dependent on product innovation, the ability to secure and maintain adequate retail shelf space and to compete in new and growing channels, and effective and sufficient trade merchandising, advertising, and marketing programs. In particular, technology-based systems, which give consumers the ability to shop through e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications, are also significantly altering the retail landscape in many of our markets and intensifying competition by simplifying distribution and lowering barriers to entry. We are committed to serving customers and consumers in e-commerce, transforming our manufacturing, commercial, and corporate operations through digital technologies, and enhancing our data analytics capabilities to develop new commercial insights. However, if we are unable to effectively compete in the expanding e-commerce market, adequately leverage technology to improve operating efficiencies (including artificial intelligence, machine learning, and augmented reality), or develop the data analytics capabilities needed to generate actionable commercial insights, our business performance may be impacted, which may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Some of our competitors have substantial financial, marketing, and other resources, and competition with them in our various markets, channels, and product lines could cause us to reduce prices, increase marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share. Category share and growth could also be adversely impacted if we are not successful in introducing new products. Introduction of new products an d product extensions requires significant development, marketing investment, and consideration of our diverse consumer base. If our products fail to meet consumer preferences, or we fail to introduce new and improved products on a timely basis, then the return on that investment will be less than anticipated and our strategy to grow sales and profits through investment in innovation will be less successful. In addition, if sales generated by new products cause a decline in our sales of our existing products, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected. In order to generate future revenues and profits, we must continue to sell products that appeal to our customers and consumers. Specifically, there are a number of trends in consumer preferences that may impact us and the food industry as a whole, including convenience, flavor variety, an emphasis on health and wellness, including weight management (e.g., the use of medications and dieting), the desire for transparent product labeling, and simple and natural ingredients. Further, weak economic conditions, recessions, significant inflation, severe or unusual weather events, pandemics, and other factors could affect consumer preferences and demand, causing a strain on our supply chain due, in part, to retailers, distributors, or carriers modifying their restocking, fulfillment, or shipping procedures. Failure to respond to these changes could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. 16 We may be limited in our ability to pass cost increases onto our customers in the form of price increases or may realize a decrease in sales volume to the extent price increases are implemented. We may not be able to pass some or all of any increases in the price of raw materials, energy, and other input costs to our customers by raising prices or decreasing product size. To the extent competitors do not also increase their prices or decrease product size, customers and consumers may choose to purchase competing products, including private label or other lower-priced offerings, which may adversely affect our results of operations or our market share. Consumers may be less willing or able to pay a price differential for our branded products and may increasingly purchase lower-priced offerings or may forego some purchases altogether, especially during economic downturns or instances of increased inflationary pressures. Retailers may also increase levels of promotional activity for lower-priced offerings as they seek to maintain sales volumes during times of economic uncertainty. Accordingly, sales volumes of our branded products could be reduced or lead to a shift in sales mix toward our lower-margin offerings. As a result, decreased demand for our products or a shift in sales mix toward lower-margin offerings may adversely affect our results of operations or our market share. We must leverage our brand value to comp ete against private label products and lower-priced alternative brands. In nearly all of our product categories, we compete against branded products as well as private label products. Our products must provide higher value and/or quality to our consumers than alternatives, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty, weakness, or inflation. Consumers may not buy our products if relative differences in value and/or quality between our products and private label products change in favor of competitors’ products or if consumers perceive this type of change and choose the lower-priced brands. If consumers prefer private label products, which are typically sold at lower prices, then we could lose category share or sales volumes and/or shift our product mix to lower margin offerings, which could have a material effect on our business, financial position, and results of operations. Our ability to competitively serve customers depends on the availability of reliable transportation. Increases in logistics and other transportation-related costs could adversely impact our results of operations. Logistics and other transportation-related costs have a significant impact on our earnings and results of operations. We use multiple forms of transportation, including ships, trucks, railcars, and third-party carriers, to bring our products to market. Disruption to the timely supply of these services or increases in the cost of these services for any reason, including availability or cost of fuel, regulations affecting the industry, labor shortages in the transportation industry, service failures by third-party service providers, carrier capacity, accidents, natural disasters, inflation, a pandemic illness, or a cybersecurity breach or attack, may impact our ability to obtain reliable transportation for products. Our procurement of transportation services from a diversified group of carriers and continuous monitoring of our transportation methods could be insufficient to protect us from changes in market demand or carrier capacity. The inability to distribute our products in a cost-effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our ability to serve our customers, our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Financial Risks Our results may be adversely impacted as a result of increased cost, limited availability, and/or insufficient quality of raw materials, including commodities and agricultural products. We and our business partners purchase and use large quantities of many different commodities and agricultural products in the manufacturing of our products, including green coffee, peanuts, oils and fats, flour, sugar, fruit, and other ingredients. In addition, we and our business partners utilize significant quantities of plastic, glass, metal cans, caps, carton board, and corrugate to package our products and natural gas and fuel oil to manufacture, package, and distribute our products. The prices of these commodities, agricultural-based products, and other materials are subject to volatility and can fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict, including global supply and demand, commodity market fluctuations, crop sizes and yield fluctuations, adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, water supply, pandemic illness, foreign currency fluctuations, investor speculation, trade agreements (such as tariffs and sanctions), political instability, geopolitical conflicts, consumer demand, general economic conditions (such as inflationary pressures and rising interest rates), and changes in governmental agricultural programs. Furthermore, commodity and oil prices have been impacted by the ongoing conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and Israel and Hamas. 17 We also compete for certain raw materials, notably corn and soy-based agricultural products, with the biofuels industry, which has resulted in increased prices for these raw materials. Additionally, farm acreage currently devoted to other agricultural products we purchase may be utilized for biofuel crops resulting in higher costs for the other agricultural products we utilize. Although we use futures, basis, options, and fixed price contracts to manage commodity price volatility in some instances, commodity price increases ultimately result in corresponding increases in our raw material and energy costs. During 2024, we continued to experience materially higher commodity and supply chain costs, including manufacturing, ingredient, and packaging costs, due to inflationary pressures. We expect the pressures of cost inflation to continue into 2025, although with less volatility than experienced in 2024 and 2023. Although we take measures to mitigate inflation through the use of derivatives and pricing actions, if these measures are not effective, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We expect the green coffee commodity markets to continue to be challenging due to the significant ongoing price volatility. For example, during 2022, we experienced drought and frost impacts, which substantially reduced green coffee production in Brazil. Due to the significance of green coffee to our coffee business, combined with our ability to only partially mitigate future price risk through purchasing practices and hedging activities, significant increases or decreases in the cost of green coffee could have an adverse impact on our profitability, as compared to that of our competitors. In addition, if we are not able to purchase sufficient quantities of green coffee due to any of the above factors or to a worldwide or regional shortage, we may not be able to fulfill the demand for our coffee, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our efforts to manage commodity, foreign currency exchange, and other price volatility through derivative instruments could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We use derivative instruments, including commodity futures and options, to reduce the price volatility associated with anticipated commodity purchases. The extent of our derivative position at any given time depends on our assessment of the markets for these commodities. If we fail to take a derivative position and costs subsequently increase, or if we institute a position and costs subsequently decrease, our costs may be greater than anticipated or higher than our competitors’ costs and our financial results could be adversely affected. In addition, our liquidity may be adversely impacted by the cash margin requirements of the commodity exchanges or the failure of a counterparty to perform in accordance with a contract. We currently do not qualify any of our commodity or foreign currency exchange derivatives for hedge accounting treatment. We instead mark-to-market our derivatives through the Statements of Consolidated Income, which results in changes in the fair value of all of our derivatives being immediately recognized in consolidated earnings, resulting in potential volatility in both gross profit and net income (loss). These gains and losses are reported in cost of products sold in our Statements of Consolidated Income but are excluded from our segment operating results and non-GAAP earnings until the related inventory is sold, at which time the gains and losses are reclassified to segment profit and non-GAAP earnings. Although this accounting treatment aligns the derivative gains and losses with the underlying exposure being hedged within segment results, it may result in volatility in our consolidated earnings. Weak financial performance, downgrades in our credit ratings, or disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect our ability to access capital in the future. We may need new or additional financing in the future to conduct our operations, expand our business, or refinance existing indebtedness, which would be dependent upon our financial performance. Any downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly our short-term rating, would likely impact the amount of commercial paper we could issue and increase our commercial paper borrowing costs. The liquidity of the overall capital markets and the state of the economy, including the food and beverage industry, may make credit and capital markets more difficult for us to access, even though we have an established revolving credit facility. From time to time, we have relied, and also may rely in the future, on access to financial markets as a source of liquidity for working capital requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate purposes. In particular, our access to funds under our revolving credit facility is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to that facility to meet their funding commitments. The obligations of the financial institutions under our revolving credit facility are several and not joint and, as a result, a funding default by one or more institutions does not need to be made up by the others. In addition, long-term volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation of financial institutions, reduced alternatives, or the failure of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to the liquidity needed for our business in the longer term. Such disruptions could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our 18 business needs can be arranged. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could also result in higher interest rates on publicly issued debt securities and increased costs under credit facilities. Continuation of these disruptions would increase our interest expense and capital costs and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Our substantial debt obligations could restrict our operations and financial condition. Additionally, our ability to generate cash to make payments on our indebtedness depends on many factors beyond our control. As of April 30, 2024, we had $8.4 billion of short-term borrowings and long-term debt. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our debt service obligations will require us to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest and principal on indebtedness rather than for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion of our business and ongoing capital expenditures, which could impede our growth. Our substantial indebtedness could have other adverse consequences, including: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations; • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, regulatory, and industry conditions, and placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged; • limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes; and • exposing us to greater interest rate risk, including the risk to variable borrowings of a rate increase and the risk to fixed borrowings of a rate decrease. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness when scheduled payments are due or to fund other liquidity needs. In these circumstances, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require make-whole payments and compliance with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness or obtain additional financing would depend on, among other things, our financial condition at the time, restriction in the agreements governing our indebtedness, and the condition of the financial markets and the industry in which we operate. As a result, we may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Without this financing, we may have to seek additional equity or debt financing or restructure our debt, which could harm our long-term business prospects. Our failure to comply with the terms of any existing or future indebtedness could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the payment of all of our debt. In addition, there are various covenants and restrictions in our debt and financial instruments. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements, the related indebtedness could become due and payable prior to its stated maturity, and our ability to obtain additional or alternative financing may also be negatively affected. A material impairment in the carrying value of acquired goodwill or other intangible assets could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. A significant portion of our assets is composed of goodwill and other intangible assets, the majority of which are not amortized but are reviewed for impairment at least annually on February 1, and more often if indicators of impairment exist. At April 30, 2024, the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets totaled $14.9 billion, compared to total assets of $20.3 billion and total shareholders’ equity of $7.7 billion. If the carrying value of these assets exceeds the current estimated fair value, the asset would be considered impaired, and this would result in a noncash charge to earnings, which could be material. Events and conditions that could result in impairment include a sustained drop in the market price of our common shares, increased competition or loss of market share, obsolescence, product claims that result in a significant loss of sales or profitability over the product life, deterioration in macroeconomic conditions, declining financial performance in comparison to projected results, increased input costs beyond projections, or divestitures of significant brands. As of April 30, 2024, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled $7.6 billion and $4.3 billion, respectively. The carrying values of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets were $2.4 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively, within the Sweet Baked Snacks segment, $2.1 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively, within the U.S. Retail Coffee segment, and $1.6 19 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively, within the U.S. Retail Pet Foods segment, which represent approximately 85 percent of the total goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets as of April 30, 2024. The g oodwill and indefinite-lived trademarks within the Sweet Baked Snacks reportable segment were based on their estimated fair values on the acquisition date. Since carrying value represents the estimated fair value, these assets could be more susceptible to future impairment. A change to the assumptions regarding future performance of the business, or a portion of it, or a change to other assumptions, could result in significant impairment losses in the future. For additional information, refer to Note 7: Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. We do not believe that the Sweet Baked Snacks reporting unit or any of the indefinite-lived assets within the Sweet Baked Snacks segment are more likely than not impaired as of April 30, 2024. However, significant adverse changes to the assumptions regarding the future performance of the Sweet Baked Snacks segment or its brands, a sustained adverse change to macroeconomic conditions, or a change to other assumptions could result in impairment losses in the future, which could be significant. As of April 30, 2024, with the exception of the Sweet Baked Snacks reporting unit and indefinite-lived intangible assets, the estimated fair value was substantially in excess of the carrying value for all reporting units and material indefinite-lived intangible assets, and in all such instances, the estimated fair value exceeded the carrying value by greater than 10 percent. While we concluded there were no indicators of impairment as of April 30, 2024, any significant sustained adverse change in consumer purchasing behaviors, financial results, or macroeconomic conditions could result in future impairment. We work with our suppliers to extend our payment terms, which are then supplemented by a third-party administrator to assist in effectively managing our working capital. If the extension of payment terms is reversed or the financial institution terminates its participation in the program, our ability to maintain acceptable levels of working capital may be adversely affected. As part of ongoing efforts to maximize working capital, we work with our suppliers to optimize our terms and conditions, which includes the extension of payment terms. Payment terms with our suppliers, which we deem to be commercially reasonable, range from 0 to 180 days. We have an agreement with a third-party administrator to provide an accounts payable tracking system and facilitate a supplier financing program, which allows participating suppliers the ability to monitor and voluntarily elect to sell our payment obligations to a designated third-party financial institution. Participating suppliers can sell one or more of our payment obligations at their sole discretion, and our rights and obligations to our suppliers are not impacted. We have no economic interest in a supplier’s decision to enter into these agreements. Our rights and obligations to our suppliers, including amounts due and scheduled payment terms, are not impacted by our suppliers’ decisions to sell amounts under these arrangements. As of April 30, 2024 and 2023, $384.9 and $414.2 of our outstanding payment obligations, respectively, were elected and sold to a financial institution by participating suppliers. If the financial institution terminates its participation in our supplier financing program and we are unable to modify related consumer payment terms or payment terms are shortened as a result of supplier negotiations, working capital could be adversely affected. In addition, due to terminations or negotiations, we may be unable to secure alternative programs and may have to utilize various financing arrangements for short-term liquidity or increase our long-term debt. The declaration, payment, and amount of dividends is made at the discretion of our Board and depends on a number of factors. The declaration, payment, and amount of any dividends is made pursuant to our dividend policy and is subject to the discretion of our Board and depends on various factors, such as our net income (loss), financial condition, cash requirements, future events, and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that any future dividends will be equal or similar in amount to any dividends previously paid or that our Board will not decide to reduce, suspend, or discontinue the payment of dividends at any time in the future. Risks Related to Regulation and Litigation We could be subject to adverse publicity or claims from consumers. Certain of our products contain ingredients which are the subject of public scrutiny, including the suggestion that consumption may have adverse health effects. Although we strive to respond to consumer preferences and social expectations, we may not be successful in these efforts. An unfavorable report on the effects of ingredients present in our 20 products or packaging, product recalls, or negative publicity or litigation could influence consumer preferences, significantly reduce the demand for our products, and adversely affect our profitability. We may also be subject to complaints from or litigation by consumers who allege food and beverage-related illness, or other quality, health, advertising, or operational concerns. Adverse publicity resulting from such allegations could materially adversely affect us, regardless of whether such allegations are true or whether we are ultimately held liable. A lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Changes in tax, environmental, or other regulations and laws, or their application, or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade, and other regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We are subject to income and other taxes, primarily in the U.S. and Canada, based upon the jurisdictions in which our sales and profits are determined to be earned and taxed. Federal, state, and foreign statutory income tax rates and taxing regimes have been subject to significant change and continue to evolve. Our interpretation of current tax laws and their applicability to our business, as well as any changes to existing laws, can significantly impact our effective income tax rate and deferred tax balances. In particular, proposals brought forth by the U.S. presidential administration include increases to federal income tax rates that, if enacted, could have a material impact to our financial results. We are also subject to regular reviews, examinations, and audits by the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) and other taxing authorities with respect to taxes within and outside of the U.S. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax controversies could result in material incremental tax liabilities, including interest and penalties. Our effective income tax rate is also influenced by the geography, timing, nature, and magnitude of transactions, such as acquisitions and divestitures, restructuring activities, and impairment charges. Our operations are subject to various regulations and laws, in addition to tax laws, administered by federal, state, and local government agencies in the U.S., including the FDA, U.S. Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Departments of Agriculture, Commerce, and Labor, state regulatory agencies, and other agencies, as well as to regulations and laws administered by government agencies in Canada and other countries in which we have operations and our products are sold. In particular, the manufacturing, marketing, transportation, storage, distribution, packaging disposal, and sale of food products are each subject to governmental regulation that is increasingly extensive. Governmental regulation encompasses such matters as ingredients (including whether a product contains bioengineered ingredients), packaging and disposal of packaging, labeling (including use of certain terms such as sugar free, healthy, low sodium, and low fat), pricing, advertising, relations with distributors and retailers, health, safety, data privacy and security, and anti-corruption, as well as an increased focus regarding environmental policies relating to climate change, regulating greenhouse gas emissions, energy policies, and sustainability, including single-use plastics. Additionally, we are routinely subject to new or modified securities regulations, other laws and regulations, and accounting and reporting standards. In the U.S., we are required to comply with federal laws, such as the FDCA, the Food Safety Modernization Act, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Tariff Act, laws governing equal employment opportunity, and various other federal statutes and regulations. We are also subject to various laws and regulations that are continuously evolving in the U.S. and other jurisdictions regarding privacy, data protection, and data security, including those related to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer, and security of personal data. For example, in the U.S., California, Virginia, Colorado, Connecticut, and Utah all have comprehensive privacy laws in effect, which impose privacy obligations on companies that do business in these states and that collect personal information from certain individuals; providing civil penalties for companies that fail to comply with these requirements including, in some jurisdictions, a private right of action for data breaches. Several additional states have passed similar comprehensive privacy laws that are set to take effect between calendar years 2024 and 2026, and beyond calendar year 2026, it is highly likely there will be several more states following suit. Therefore, on an ongoing basis, we will be evaluating whether we have new privacy obligations that require us to develop additional compliance mechanisms and processes. There are also a wide range of enforcement agencies at both state and federal levels that can investigate companies for privacy and data security concerns based on general consumer protection laws. Accordingly, failure to comply with federal and state laws regarding privacy and security of personal information could expose us to fines and penalties. Complying with new regulations and laws, or changes to existing regulations and laws, or their application could increase our costs or adversely affect our sales of certain products. In addition, our failure or inability to comply with applicable 21 regulations and laws could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, and potential criminal sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our international operations expose us to regulatory risks. In many countries outside of the U.S., particularly in those with developing or emerging economies, it may be common for others to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or similar local anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws. These laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors, or agents from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions may be less certain, resulting in varying abilities to enforce intellectual property and contractual rights. Risks associated with climate change and other environmental impacts or legal, regulatory, or market measures to address climate change may negatively affect our business and operations. As set forth in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Sixth Assessment Report, global average temperatures are gradually increasing due to increased concentration of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, which have contributed to and are expected to continue contributing to significant changes in weather patterns around the globe and an increase in the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. In the event that climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as green coffee, peanuts, oils and fats, flour, sugar, fruit, and other ingredients. We may also be subjected to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water or energy as a result of such change, which could impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. In addition, natural disasters, extreme weather conditions, and other natural conditions may disrupt the productivity of our facilities or the operation of our supply chain, which could increase our insurance or other operating costs or require us to make additional, unplanned capital expenditures. Specifically , in January 2024, a snow and ice storm in the south caused our cat food plant in Decatur, Alabama to be temporarily shut down, and in 2022, Hurricane Ida caused our coffee manufacturing facilities in New Orleans, Louisiana to be temporarily shut down. Although we consider these to be uncommon events, and we were able to effectively minimize any disruptions through our business continuity planning efforts, extreme weather could disrupt our production in the future, adversely affecting our ability to meet customer deadlines and supply demands. Additionally, there is an increased focus by foreign, federal, state, and local regulatory and legislative bodies regarding environmental policies relating to climate change, regulating greenhouse gas emissions, energy policies, and sustainability, including single-use plastics. Increased energy or compliance costs and expenses due to the impacts of climate change and additional legal or regulatory requirements regarding climate change designed to reduce or mitigate the effects of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions on the environment could be costly and may cause disruptions in, or an increase in the costs associated with, our manufacturing and distribution facilities, as well as increase supply chain costs. Moreover, compliance with any such legal or regulatory requirements may require us to make significant changes to our business operations, strategy, and reporting . Collecting, measuring, and analyzing information relating to climate change and sustainability matters can be costly, time consuming, dependent on third-party cooperation, and unreliable. Furthermore, methodologies for measuring, tracking, and reporting on climate change and sustainability continue to change over time, which requires our processes and controls for such data to evolve as well. Finally, we might fail to effectively address increased attention from the media, shareholders, activists, and other stakeholders on climate change and related environmental sustainability matters. Such failure, or the perception that we have failed to act responsibly with respect to such matters, or to effectively respond to new or additional regulatory requirements regarding climate change, whether or not valid, could result in adverse publicity and negatively affect our business and reputation. In addition, from time to time we establish and publicly announce goals and commitments, including goals to reduce our impact on the environment. For example, in 2022, we established science-based targets for Scope 1, 2, and 3 greenhouse gas emissions. Our ability to achieve any stated goal, target, or objective is subject to numerous factors and conditions, many of which are outside of our control, including evolving regulatory requirements and the availability of suppliers that can meet our sustainability and other standards. Furthermore, standards for tracking and reporting such matters continue to evolve. Our selection of voluntary disclosure frameworks and standards, and the interpretation or application of those frameworks and standards, may change from time to time or differ from those of others. Methodologies for reporting this data may be updated and previously reported data may be adjusted to reflect improvement in availability and quality of third-party data, changing assumptions, changes in the nature and scope of our operations (including from acquisitions and divestitures), and other 22 changes in circumstances, which could result in significant revisions to our current goals, reported progress in achieving such goals, or ability to achieve such goals in the future. If we fail to achieve, are perceived to have failed to achieve, or are delayed in achieving these goals and commitments, it could negatively affect consumer preference for our products or investor confidence in our stock, as well as expose us to government enforcement actions and private litigation. General Risk Factors We may be unable to grow market share of our products. We operate in the competitive food industry whose growth potential is positively correlated to population growth. Our success depends in part on our ability to drive revenue growth in our brands faster than the population in general. We consider our ability to build and sustain the equity of our brands critical to our market share growth. Since our operations are concentrated in the North American consumer and snacking industry, our success also depends in part on our ability to enhance our portfolio by adding innovative new products. If we do not suc ceed in these efforts, our market share growth may slow, which could have a material impact on our results of operations. If our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or we are unable to protect such information technology systems against data corruption or cybersecurity incidents, our operations could be disrupted, and we may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. We rely on information technology (“IT”) networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic information, and the importance of such networks and systems has increased due to many of our employees working remotely. In particular, we depend on our IT infrastructure to effectively manage our business data, supply chain, logistics, finance, manufacturing, and other business processes and for digital marketing activities and electronic communications between Company personnel and our customers and suppliers. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build, sustain, and protect an appropriate technology infrastructure, or we do not effectively implement system upgrades, our business or financial results could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, the rapid evolution of emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence may intensify our cybersecurity risks. We are regularly the target of attempted cyber and other security threats. Therefore, we continuously monitor and update our IT networks and infrastructure to prevent, detect, address, and mitigate the risk of unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses, phishing attacks, malware, ransomware, social engineering, password theft, physical breaches, and other events that could have a security impact. In addition, the ongoing conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and Israel and Hamas have heightened the risk of cyberattacks. We invest in industry-standard security technology to protect our data and business processes against the risk of data security breaches and cyber-based attacks. We believe our security technology tools and processes provide adequate measures of protection against security breaches and in reducing cybersecurity risks. Nevertheless, despite continued vigilance in these areas, security breaches or system failures of our infrastructure, whether due to attacks by hackers, employee error, or other causes, can create system disruptions, shutdowns, transaction errors, or unauthorized disclosure of confidential or proprietary information. If we are unable to prevent such breaches or failures, our operations could be disrupted, or we may suffer financial damage or loss because of lost or misappropriated information. In addition, the cost to remediate any damages to our IT systems suffered as a result of a cyber-based attack could be significant. In addition, if we experience a loss as a result of a cybersecurity incident or other breakdown in technology, we may suffer reputational, competitive, and/or business harm and may be exposed to legal liability and government investigations, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. The misuse, leakage, or falsification of information could also result in violations of data privacy laws, and we may become subject to legal action and increased regulatory oversight. We could also be required to spend significant financial and other resources to remedy the damage caused by a cybersecurity incident or to repair or replace networks and information. Further, we have outsourced several IT support services and administrative functions, including benefit plan administration and other functions, to third-party service providers and strategic partners, and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. In addition, certain of our processes rely on third-party cloud computing services. If the service providers to which we outsource these functions do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected benefits and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. Depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, inaccurate financial reporting, the loss of or damage to intellectual property through a security breach, the loss of sensitive data through a security breach, or otherwise. 23 We may face complications with the design or implementation of our new enterprise performance management system, which may negatively affect our business and operations. W e rely on IT networks and systems to manage our business and operations and occasionally implement new and upgrade our existing IT systems. We are in the process of a multi-year implementation of a new enterprise performance management (“EPM”) system, inclusive of an enterprise resource planning system (i.e., general ledger), through the use of Oracle Cloud Solutions. The EPM system will replace our existing financial system and is designed to accurately maintain our financial records, enhance operational functionality and efficiency, and provide timely information to our management team. The EPM system implementation process has required, and will continue to require, the investment of significant personnel and financial resources over the duration of the project. We anticipate full integration of the EPM system in early 2026. Further, we may not be able to successfully implement the EPM system without experiencing delays, increased costs, and other complications, including potential design defects, miscalculations, testing requirements, and the diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day business operations. If we are unable to successfully design and implement the new EPM system as planned, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be negatively impacted. In addition, if the EPM system does not operate as intended, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting could be adversely affected. The ongoing conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and Israel and Hamas and the related disruptions to the global economy could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. The global economy has been negatively impacted by the ongoing conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and Israel and Hamas. Governments in the United States, United Kingdom, and European Union have imposed sanctions on certain products, industry sectors, and parties in Russia. Although we do not have any operations in Russia, Ukraine, Israel, or Palestine, we have experienced and may continue to experience shortages in materials and increased costs for transportation, energy, and raw materials due in part to the negative impact of the conflicts on the global economy. If the conflicts continue for an extended period of time, they could result in cyberattacks, supply chain disruptions, lower consumer demand, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, increased trade barriers and restrictions on global trade, and other impacts, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. These and other impacts of the ongoing conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and Israel and Hamas could also heighten many of the other risk factors discussed in this section.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

(Dollars and shares in millions, unless otherwise noted, except per share data) This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is intended to provide an understanding of our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows by focusing on changes in certain key measures from year to year, and should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes presented in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed in Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Company Background At The J. M. Smucker Company, it is our privilege to make food people and pets love by offering a diverse family of brands available across North America. We are proud to lead in the coffee, peanut butter, fruit spreads, frozen handheld, sweet baked goods, dog snacks, and cat food categories by offering brands consumers trust for themselves and their families each day, including Folgers , Dunkin’ , Café Bustelo , Jif , Smucker’s Uncrustables , Smucker’s , Hostess , Voortman , Milk-Bone , and Meow Mix . Through our unwavering commitment to producing quality products, operating responsibly and ethically, and delivering on our Purpose, we will continue to grow our business while making a positive impact on society. We have four reportable segments: U.S. Retail Coffee, U.S. Retail Frozen Handheld and Spreads, U.S. Retail Pet Foods, and Sweet Baked Snacks. We acquired Hostess Brands in a cash and stock transaction on November 7, 2023, resulting in the new Sweet Baked Snacks reportable segment for 2024. Further, the historical U.S. Retail Consumer Foods reportable segment has been renamed to U.S. Retail Frozen Handheld and Spreads; however, there is no change to the manner in which the segment was previously presented. For additional information on our reportable segments, see Note 5: Reportable Segments. The U.S. retail market segments and Sweet Baked Snacks segment in total comprised 85 percent of consolidated net sales in 2024 and represent a major portion of our strategic focus – the sale of branded food and beverage products with leadership positions to consumers through retail outlets in North America. Products within our U.S. retail market segments are primarily sold through a combination of direct sales and brokers to food retailers, club stores, discount and dollar stores, online retailers, pet specialty stores, drug stores, military commissaries, mass merchandisers, and distributors. The Sweet Baked Snacks segment includes products distributed in all channels, both domestically and in foreign countries, such as supermarket chains, national mass retailers, convenience stores, club stores, discount and dollar stores, drug stores, and the vending channel. International and Away From Home includes the sale of all products that are distributed in foreign countries through retail channels, as well as domestically and in foreign countries through foodservice distributors and operators (e.g., healthcare operators, restaurants, educational institutions, offices, lodging and gaming establishments, and convenience stores). Strategic Overview We remain rooted in our Basic Beliefs to Be Bold , Be Kind , Do the Right Thing , Play to Win , and Thrive Together . They were established by our founder and namesake, Jerome Smucker, more than a century ago and are the core of our unique corporate culture, serving as the foundation for decision-making and how we interact with our colleagues and partners. While our Basic Beliefs have evolved over time as we have grown, we remain unwavering in our commitment to these core values and recognize how we are called to act upon them will continue to transform as the world around us does. In addition, we have been led by five generations of family leadership, having had only six chief executive officers in over 125 years. This continuity of management and thought extends to the broader leadership team that embodies the values and embraces the business practices that have contributed to our consistent growth. Our strategic vision is to engage, delight, and inspire consumers by building brands they love and leading in growing categories. This vision is our long-term direction that guides business priorities and aligns our organization. As a company of #1 and leading brands with emerging, on-trend brands, we will continue to drive balanced, long-term growth, primarily in 28 North America. Further, we will continue to guide the transformation of our business and ensure our strategy of leading in the attractive categories of pet, coffee, and snacking by driving results through advancement on the following strategic pillars: • Driving prioritization and best-in-class execution; • Improving profitability and cost discipline; • Transforming our portfolio; • Nurturing and investing in our culture; and • Improving diversity and fostering inclusion and equity. Our strategic growth objectives include net sales increasing by a low single-digit percentage and operating income excluding non-GAAP adjustments (“adjusted operating income”) increasing by a mid-single-digit percentage on average over the long term. Related to income per diluted share excluding non-GAAP adjustments (“adjusted earnings per share”), our strategic growth objective is to increase by a high single-digit percentage over the long term. We expect organic growth, including new products, to drive much of our top-line growth, while the contribution from acquisitions will vary from year to year. Our non-GAAP adjustments include amortization expense and impairment charges related to intangible assets, certain divestiture, acquisition, integration, and restructuring costs (“special project costs”), gains and losses on divestitures, the net change in cumulative unallocated gains and losses on commodity and foreign currency exchange derivative activities (“change in net cumulative unallocated derivative gains and losses”), and other infrequently occurring items that do not directly reflect ongoing operating results. Refer to “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” in this discussion and analysis for additional information. Due to the unknown and potentially prolonged impact of the inflationary environment and challenged supply network, we may experience difficulties or be delayed in achieving our long-term strategies; however, we continue to evaluate the effects of the macroeconomic environment on our long-term growth objectives. Over the past five years, net sales, adjusted operating income, and adjusted earnings per share increased at a compound annual growth rate of approximately 1 percent, 2 percent, and 4 percent, respectively. These changes were primarily driven by increased at-home consumption for the U.S. Retail Coffee and U.S. Retail Frozen Handheld and Spreads segments and an increase in net sales from the acquisition of Hostess Brands. These increases were partially offset by the reduction in net sales from the divested Sahale Snacks and Canada condiment businesses in 2024, certain pet food brands in 2023, the private label dry pet food and natural beverage and grains businesses in 2022, and the Crisco ® and Natural Balance ® businesses in 2021. Net cash provided by operating activities increased at a compound annual growth rate of approximately 2 percent over the past five years. Our cash deployment strategy is to balance reinvesting in our business through acquisitions and capital expenditures with returning cash to our shareholders through the payment of dividends and share repurchases. Our deployment strategy also includes a significant focus on debt repayment. Acquisition On November 7, 2023, we completed a cash and stock transaction to acquire Hostess Brands. The total purchase consideration in connection with the acquisition was $5.4 billion, which reflects an exchange offer of all outstanding shares of Hostess Brands common stock at a price of $34.25 per share, consisting of $30.00 in cash and 0.03002 shares of our common shares, based on the closing stock price on September 8, 2023, that were exchanged for each share of Hostess Brands common stock as of the transaction date. The purchase price included the issuance of approximately 4.0 million of our common shares to Hostess Brands’ shareholders, valued at $450.2. In addition, we paid $3.9 billion in cash, net of cash acquired, and assumed $991.0 of debt from Hostess Brands and $67.8 of an other debt-like item, reflecting consideration transferred for the cash payment of Hostess Brands’ employee equity awards. New debt of $5.0 billion was borrowed, consisting of $3.5 billion in Senior Notes, an $800.0 senior unsecured delayed-draw Term Loan Credit Agreement (“Term Loan”), and $700.0 of short-term borrowings under our commercial paper program to partially fund the transaction and pay off the debt assumed as part of the acquisition. Hostess Brands is a manufacturer and marketer of sweet baked goods brands including Hostess Donettes , Twinkies , CupCakes , DingDongs , Zingers , CoffeeCakes , HoHos , Mini Muffins , and Fruit Pies , and the Voortman cookie brand. In addition to its headquarters in Lenexa, Kansas, the transaction included six manufacturing facilities located in Emporia, Kansas; Burlington, Ontario; Chicago, Illinois; Columbus, Georgia; Indianapolis, Indiana; and Arkadelphia, Arkansas, a distribution facility in Edgerton, Kansas, and a commercial center of excellence in Chicago, Illinois. Approximately 3,000 employees transitioned with the business at the close of the transaction. During 2024, the acquired business contributed net sales of $637.3 within the Sweet Baked Snacks segment. We anticipate cost synergies of approximately $100.0, which are expected to be achieved by the end of 2026. During 2024, we achieved cost synergies of approximately $11.0. For additional information, refer to Note 2: Acquisition. 29 Divestitures On January 2, 2024, we sold our Canada condiment business to TreeHouse Foods. The transaction included Bick’s pickles, Habitant pickled beets, Woodman’s horseradish, and McLarens pickled onions brands, inclusive of certain trademarks. Under our ownership, these brands generated net sales of $43.8, $61.6, and $62.7 in 2024, 2023, and 2022, respectively, which were included in the International operating segment. Final net proceeds from the divestiture were $25.3, inclusive of a working capital adjustment and cash transaction costs. We recognized a pre-tax loss of $5.7 during 2024, within other operating expense (income) – net in the Statement of Consolidated Income. On November 1, 2023, we sold our Sahale Snacks business to Second Nature. The transaction included products sold under our Sahale Snacks brand, inclusive of certain trademarks and licensing agreements, a leased manufacturing facility in Seattle, Washington, and approximately 100 employees who supported the brand. Under our ownership, the Sahale Snacks brand generated net sales of $24.1, $48.4, and $47.4 in 2024, 2023, and 2022, respectively, primarily included in the U.S. Retail Frozen Handheld and Spreads segment. Final net proceeds from the divestiture were $31.6, inclusive of a working capital adjustment and cash transaction costs. We recognized a pre-tax loss of $-6.7 during 2024, within other operating expense (income) – net in the Statement of Consolidated Income. On April 28, 2023, we sold certain pet food brands to Post. The transaction included the Rachael Ray Nutrish , 9Lives , Kibbles ’n Bits , Nature’s Recipe , and Gravy Train brands, as well as our private label pet food business, inclusive of certain trademarks and licensing agreements, manufacturing and distribution facilities in Bloomsburg, Pennsylvania, manufacturing facilities in Meadville, Pennsylvania and Lawrence, Kansas, and approximately 1,100 employees who supported these pet food brands. Under our ownership, these brands generated net sales of $1.5 billion and $1.4 billion in 2023 and 2022, respectively, primarily included in the U.S. Retail Pet Foods segment. Final net proceeds from the divestiture were $1.2 billion, consisting of $683.9 in cash, net of a working capital adjustment and cash transaction costs, and approximately 5.4 million shares of Post common stock, valued at $491.6 at the close of the transaction. We recognized a pre-tax loss of $1.0 billion upon completion of this transaction in 2023, within other operating expense (income) – net in the Statement of Consolidated Income, net of a working capital adjustment and transaction costs. During 2024, we finalized the working capital adjustment and transaction costs, which resulted in an immaterial adjustment to the pre-tax loss. Furthermore, during 2024, we entered into equity forward derivative transactions under an agreement with an unrelated third-party to facilitate the forward sale of the Post common stock. All 5.4 million shares of Post common stock were settled under the equity forward contract for $466.3 on November 15, 2023. On January 31, 2022, we sold the natural beverage and grains businesses to Nexus. The transaction included products sold under the R.W. Knudsen and TruRoots brands, inclusive of certain trademarks, a licensing agreement for Santa Cruz Organic beverages, dedicated manufacturing and distribution facilities in Chico, California and Havre de Grace, Maryland, and approximately 150 employees who supported the natural beverage and grains businesses. The transaction did not include Santa Cruz Organic nut butters, fruit spreads, syrups, or applesauce. Under our ownership, the businesses generated net sales of $106.7 in 2022, primarily included in the U.S. Retail Frozen Handheld and Spreads segment. Final net proceeds from the divestiture were $98.7, inclusive of a working capital adjustment and cash transaction costs. We recognized a pre-tax gain of $28.3 related to the natural beverage and grains businesses, of which $26.7 was recognized during 2022, and the remaining $1.6 was recognized upon finalization of the working capital adjustment in 2023, and is included within other operating expense (income) – net in the Statements of Consolidated Income. On December 1, 2021, we sold the private label dry pet food business to Diamond Pet Foods. The transaction included dry pet food products sold under private label brands, a dedicated manufacturing facility located in Frontenac, Kansas, and approximately 220 employees who supported the private label dry pet food business. The transaction did not include any branded products or our private label wet pet food business. Under our ownership, the business generated net sales of $62.3 in 2022, included in the U.S. Retail Pet Foods segment. Final net proceeds from the divestiture were $32.9, net of cash transaction costs. Upon completion of this transaction during 2022, we recognized a pre-tax loss of $17.1, within other operating expense (income) – net in the Statement of Consolidated Income. For additional information, refer to Note 3: Divestitures. Trends Affecting our Business During 2024, we continued to experience a dynamic macroeconomic environment, which we anticipate will persist into 2025, although with less volatility than experienced in prior years. In addition, we anticipate the price elasticity of demand will remain elevated into 2025 as consumers continue to experience broader inflationary pressures. In response to the inflationary pressures, we continue to focus on the delivery of our company-wide transformation initiative to deliberately translate our 30 continuous improvement mindset into sustainable productivity initiatives in order to grow our profit margins and reinvest in the Company to enable future growth and cost savings. In addition, it is possible significant disruptions in our supply chain could occur if certain geopolitical events continue to impact markets around the world, including the impact of potential shipping delays due to supply and demand imbalances, as well as labor shortages. We also continue to work closely with our customers and external business partners, taking additional actions to ensure safety, business continuity, and maximize product availability. We have maintained production at all our facilities and availability of appointments at distribution centers. Furthermore, we have implemented measures to manage order volumes to ensure a consistent supply across our retail partners during periods of high demand. However, to the extent that high demand levels or supply chain disruptions delay order fulfillment, we may experience volume loss and elevated penalties. Although we do not have any operations in Russia, Ukraine, Israel, or Palestine, we continue to monitor the environment for any significant escalation or expansion of economic or supply chain disruptions, including broader inflationary costs, as well as regional or global economic recessions. Overall, broad-based supply chain disruptions and the impact of inflation remain uncertain. We will continue to evaluate the nature and extent to which supply chain disruptions and inflation will impact our business, supply chain, including labor availability and attrition, results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Results of Operations This discussion and analysis deals with comparisons of material changes in the consolidated financial statements for the years ended April 30, 2024 and 2023. For the comparisons of the years ended April 30, 2023 and 2022, see the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K. (A) We use non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate our performance. Refer to “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” in this discussion and analysis for a reconciliation to the comparable generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) financial measure. 31 Net Sales Amounts may not add due to rounding . (A) Net sales excluding acquisition, divestitures, and foreign currency exchange is a non-GAAP financial measure used to evaluate performance internally. This measure provides useful information to investors because it enables comparison of results on a year-over-year basis. Net sales in 2024 decreased $350.5, or 4 percent, which includes $1,565.5 of noncomparable net sales in the prior year related to divestitures, partially offset by incremental net sales in the current year of $637.3 related to the Hostess Brands acquisition. Net sales excluding acquisition, divestitures, and foreign currency exchange increased $584.5, or 8 percent. Favorable volume/mix contributed 5 percentage points to net sales, primarily driven by contract manufacturing sales related to the divested pet food brands, Smucker’s Uncrustables frozen sandwiches, the impact of lapping the Jif peanut butter product recall in the prior year, and coffee products. Higher net price realization contributed 3 percentage points to net sales, primarily due to list price increases for our U.S. Retail Frozen Handheld and Spreads and U.S. Retail Pet Foods segments and for International and Away From Home, as well as the favorable impact of lapping customer returns and fees related to the Jif peanut butter product recall in the prior year, partially offset by a net price decline for the U.S. Retail Coffee segment. Operating Income The following table presents the components of operating income as a percentage of net sales. Amounts may not add due to rounding. Gross profit increased $313.6, or 11 percent, in 2024, primarily reflecting higher net price realization, the noncomparable benefit of Hostess Brands, lower commodity costs, and favorable volume/mix, including the price and cost benefits from lapping the impact of the Jif peanut butter product recall in the prior year, partially offset by the noncomparable impact of divestitures. Operating income increased $1,148.3, primarily driven by lapping the $1.0 billion pre-tax loss related to the divestiture of certain pet food brands in 2023, the increase in gross profit, a $15.8 decrease in amortization expense, and an $8.8 decrease in 32 selling, distribution, and administrative (“SD&A”) expenses. These increases to operating income were partially offset by a $125.5 increase in special project costs, primarily reflecting integration costs related to the acquisition of Hostess Brands, and a $70.0 decrease in net other operating income, primarily reflecting an unfavorable impact related to the termination of a supplier agreement and the impact of lapping the prior year insurance recovery from the Jif peanut butter product recall. Our non-GAAP adjustments include amortization expense and impairment charges related to intangible assets, special project costs, gains and losses on divestitures, the change in net cumulative unallocated derivative gains and losses, and other infrequently occurring items that do not directly reflect ongoing operating results. Refer to “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” in this discussion and analysis for additional information. Gross profit excluding non-GAAP adjustments (“adjusted gross profit”), increased $282.0, or 10 percent, as compared to the prior year, primarily reflecting the exclusion of the change in net cumulative unallocated derivative gains and losses as compared to GAAP gross profit. Adjusted operating income increased $220.8, or 16 percent, as compared to the prior year, further reflecting the exclusion of the net pre-tax loss on divestitures, special project costs, and amortization expense. Interest Expense Net interest expense increased $112.3, or 74 percent, in 2024, primarily due to increased interest expense related to the new Senior Notes and Term Loan issued during 2024 to partially finance the acquisition of Hostess Brands, partially offset by an increase in interest income, reflecting higher interest rates on cash investments held during 2024, as compared to the prior year. For additional information, refer to Note 8: Debt and Financing Arrangements. Income Taxes Income taxes increased $170.3 in 2024, as compared to the prior year. The effective income tax rate for 2024 varied from the U.S. statutory income tax rate of 21.0 percent primarily due to state income taxes and unfavorable permanent and deferred tax impacts associated with the acquisition of Hostess Brands. The effective income tax rate for 2023 varied from the U.S. statutory income tax rate of 21.0 percent primarily due to unfavorable permanent tax impacts associated with the divestiture of certain pet food brands, as well as state income taxes. We anticipate a full-year effective income tax rate for 2025 to be approximately 24.4 percent. For additional information, refer to Note 14: Income Taxes. Special Project Costs Divestiture Costs : Total divestiture costs related to the divested Sahale Snacks and Canada condiment businesses are anticipated to be approximately $6.0, consisting primarily of employee-related and lease termination costs, all of which are expected to be cash charges with the majority recognized in 2024 and the remainder to be recognized during the first half of 2025. We incurred $3.9 of employee-related costs and $1.6 of other transition and termination costs related to lease termination costs for these divestitures during 2024. Furthermore, we identified opportunities to address certain distribution inefficiencies, as a result of the divestiture of certain pet food brands. We anticipate incurring approximately $11.0 of costs related to these efforts, consisting primarily of other transition and termination charges. The majority of these costs are expected to be cash charges and incurred by the end of 2026, with over half of the costs expected to be recognized in 2025. For additional information, see Note 3: Divestitures. Integration Costs : Total integration costs related to the acquisition of Hostess Brands are anticipated to be approximately $210.0 and include transaction costs, employee-related costs, and other transition and termination charges. Of the total anticipated integration costs, approximately half reflect transaction costs, with the remainder split between employee-related costs and other transition and termination charges. The majority of the integration costs are expected to be cash charges and will be incurred by the end of 2026, with $147.4 of the costs recognized in 2024. Restructuring Costs : A restructuring program was approved by the Board during 2021, associated with opportunities identified to reduce our overall cost structure, optimize our organizational design, and support our portfolio reshape. The program was further expanded in 2022 to include the costs associated with the divestitures of the private label dry pet food and natural beverage and grains businesses as well as the closure of certain production facilities. The restructuring activities were considered complete as of April 30, 2023. The costs incurred associated with these restructuring activities included other transition and termination costs related to our cost reduction and margin management initiatives, inclusive of accelerated depreciation, as well as employee-related costs. We incurred total cumulative restructuring costs of $63.7. For further information on these costs, refer to Note 4: Special Project Costs. 33 Commodities Overview The raw materials we use in each of our segments are primarily commodities, agricultural-based products, and packaging materials. The most significant of these materials, based on 2024 annual spend, are green coffee, peanuts, oils and fats, flour, sugar, and fruit. Green coffee, corn, certain meals, oils, and grains are traded on active regulated exchanges, and the price of these commodities fluctuates based on market conditions. Derivative instruments, including futures and options, are used to minimize the impact of price volatility for these commodities. We source green coffee from more than 20 coffee-producing countries. Its price is subject to high volatility due to factors such as weather, global supply and demand, product scarcity, plant disease, investor speculation, geopolitical conflicts (including the ongoing conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and Israel and Hamas), changes in governmental agricultural and energy policies and regulation, and political and economic conditions in the source countries. We source peanuts, protein meals, and oils and fats mainly from North America. We are one of the largest roasters of peanuts in the U.S. and frequently enter into long-term purchase contracts for various periods of time to mitigate the risk of a shortage of this commodity. The oils we purchase are mainly palm, soybean, and peanut. The price of peanuts, protein meals, and oils is driven primarily by weather, which impacts crop sizes and yield, as well as global demand, especially from large importing countries such as China and India. We frequently enter into long-term contracts to purchase plastic containers, which are sourced mainly within the U.S. Plastic resin is made from petrochemical feedstock and natural gas feedstock, and the price can be influenced by feedstock, energy, and crude oil prices as well as global economic and geopolitical conditions. Excluding the impact of derivative gains and losses, our overall commodity costs in 2024 were lower than in 2023, primarily due to lower costs for green coffee, oils and fats, and corn. Segment Results We have four reportable segments: U.S. Retail Coffee, U.S. Retail Frozen Handheld and Spreads, U.S. Retail Pet Foods, and Sweet Baked Snacks. The presentation of International and Away From Home represents a combination of all other operating segments that are not individually reportable. As disclosed in Note 2: Acquisition, we acquired Hostess Brands in a cash and stock transaction on November 7, 2023, resulting in the new Sweet Baked Snacks reportable segment for 2024. Further, the historical U.S. Retail Consumer Foods reportable segment has been renamed to U.S. Retail Frozen Handheld and Spreads; however, there is no change to the manner in which the segment was previously presented. We do not anticipate any impact to our other historical reportable segments, as we do not anticipate any changes to the internal manner in which we will manage and report these reportable segments. The U.S. Retail Coffee segment primarily includes the domestic sales of Folgers , Dunkin’ , and Café Bustelo branded coffee; the U.S. Retail Frozen Handheld and Spreads segment primarily includes the domestic sales of Smucker’s and Jif branded products; the U.S. Retail Pet Foods segment primarily includes the domestic sales of Meow Mix , Milk-Bone , Pup-Peroni , and C anine Carry Outs branded products; and the Sweet Baked Snacks segment primarily includes all domestic and foreign sales of Hostess and Voortman branded products in all channels. With the exception of Sweet Baked Snacks products, International and Away From Home includes the sale of all products that are distributed in foreign countries through retail channels, as well as domestically and in foreign countries through foodservice distributors and operators (e.g., healthcare operators, restaurants, educational institutions, offices, lodging and gaming establishments, and convenience stores). 34 U.S. Retail Coffee The U.S. Retail Coffee segment net sales decreased $30.9 in 2024. Net price realization decreased net sales by 3 percentage points, reflecting list price decreases, partially offset by reduced trade spend. Favorable volume/mix contributed 1 percentage point to net sales, reflecting increases for the Café Bustelo and Dunkin’ brands, primarily for one cup offerings, partially offset by decreases for the Folgers brand. Segment profit increased $21.5, primarily reflecting lower commodity costs and favorable volume/mix, partially offset by lower net price realization, an unfavorable impact related to the termination of a supplier agreement, and higher marketing spend. U.S. Retail Frozen Handheld and Spreads The U.S. Retail Frozen Handheld and Spreads segment net sales increased $184.7 in 2024, inclusive of the impact of $16.0 of noncomparable net sales in the prior year related to the divested Sahale Snacks business. Excluding the noncomparable impact of the divestiture, net sales increased $200.7, or 12 percent. Net price realization contributed 8 percentage points to net sales, primarily reflecting a favorable impact of lapping customer returns and fees related to the Jif peanut butter product recall in the prior year and a list price increase for Jif peanut butter. Volume/mix increased net sales by 4 percentage points, primarily driven by Smucker’s Uncrustables frozen sandwiches and Jif peanut butter. Segment profit increased $81.5, primarily reflecting a favorable net impact of lapping the recall, favorable volume/mix for Smucker’s Uncrustables frozen sandwiches, and higher net price realization, partially offset by higher marketing spend and pre-production expenses related to the new Smucker’s Uncrustables manufacturing facility. U.S. Retail Pet Foods The U.S. Retail Pet Foods segment net sales decreased $1,215.3 in 2024, inclusive of the impact of $1,497.2 of noncomparable net sales in the prior year related to the divestiture of certain pet food brands. Excluding the noncomparable impact of the divested brands, net sales increased $281.9, or 18 percent. Favorable volume/mix contributed 11 percentage points to net sales, primarily reflecting $136.2 of contract manufacturing sales related to the divested pet food brands and growth for the Meow Mix and Milk-Bone brands, partially offset by a decrease for the Pup-Peroni brand. Higher net price realization increased net sales by 7 percentage points, primarily reflecting list price increases across the portfolio, partially offset by increased trade spend. Segment profit decreased $92.8, reflecting the impact of noncomparable segment profit in the prior year related to the divested brands, increased distribution costs, and higher marketing spend, partially offset by a favorable net impact of higher net price realization and increased costs and favorable volume/mix. 35 Sweet Baked Snacks We acquired Hostess Brands on November 7, 2023, as discussed in Note 2: Acquisition. During 2024, the Sweet Baked Snacks segment contributed net sales of $637.3 and segment profit of $138.2, including the recognition of an unfavorable fair value purchase accounting adjustment of approximately $8.3 attributable to the acquired inventory, which increased cost of products sold for the segment. International and Away From Home International and Away From Home net sales increased $73.7 in 2024, including the noncomparable impact of $52.3 of net sales in the prior year primarily related to the divestitures and $6.8 of unfavorable foreign currency exchange. Excluding the noncomparable impact of the divested brands and foreign currency exchange, net sales increased $132.8, or 12 percent. Favorable volume/mix contributed 7 percentage points to net sales, primarily reflecting increases for frozen handheld, portion control, peanut butter, inclusive of the impact of lapping the Jif peanut butter product recall in the prior year, and coffee products. Net price realization contributed 5 percentage points to net sales, primarily driven by list price increases across the majority of the portfolio, partially offset by increased trade spend. Segment profit increased $64.8, primarily driven by higher net price realization and favorable volume/mix, primarily reflecting the recovery from the Jif peanut butter product recall, partially offset by increased SD&A expenses. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity Our principal source of funds is cash generated from operations, supplemented by borrowings against our commercial paper program and revolving credit facility. Total cash and cash equivalents decreased to $62.0 at April 30, 2024, compared to $655.8 at April 30, 2023. The following table presents selected cash flow information. (A) Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure used by management to evaluate the amount of cash available for debt repayment, dividend distribution, acquisition opportunities, share repurchases, and other corporate purposes. The $35.0 increase in cash provided by operating activities in 2024 was primarily driven by lapping the $70.0 contribution to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans in the prior year, $42.5 of proceeds received from settlement of the interest rate contracts assumed as part of the acquisition of Hostess Brands, and higher net income adjusted for noncash items in the current year, partially offset by an increase in cash payments for income and other taxes as compared to the prior year and higher working capital requirements in 2024. The cash required to fund working capital increased compared to the prior year primarily driven by an increase in cash for accounts payable due to lower spend and timing of payments and the lapping of the prior year insurance proceeds received related to the Jif peanut butter product recall. These increases in cash requirements were partially offset by the moderation of input cost inflation related to our inventories, an increase in cash from trade receivables due to the timing of sales and payments, and an increase in accrued liabilities reflecting a payable to Post related to the transition services agreement entered into in connection with the divestiture of certain pet food brands. Cash used for investing activities in 2024 consisted primarily of $3.9 billion related to the acquisition of Hostess Brands, including $67.8 of consideration transferred for the cash payment of Hostess Brands’ employee equity awards, and $586.5 in capital expenditures, primarily driven by investments in Smucker’s Uncrustables frozen sandwiches to support the new manufacturing and distribution facilities in McCalla, Alabama, as well as plant maintenance across our facilities. These uses of cash for 2024 were partially offset by proceeds of $466.3 received from the settlement of our equity investment in Post common stock and net proceeds received of $56.3, primarily from the divested Sahale Snacks and Canada condiment businesses, and a decrease of $18.9 in our derivative cash margin account balances. Cash provided by investing activities in 2023 consisted primarily of net proceeds received from the sale of certain pet food brands of $684.7 and a decrease of $37.6 36 in our derivative cash margin account balances. These increases were partially offset by $477.4 in capital expenditures, primarily driven by investments in Smucker’s Uncrustables frozen sandwiches to support the new manufacturing and distribution facilities in McCalla, Alabama, and capacity expansions in Longmont, Colorado, as well as plant maintenance across our facilities. Cash provided by financing activities in 2024 consisted primarily of proceeds from long-term debt of $4.3 billion to partially finance the acquisition of Hostess Brands and a net increase in short-term borrowings of $578.2. These proceeds were partially offset by the $991.0 repayment of Hostess Brands’ debt assumed, the $800.0 Term Loan prepayment, dividend payments of $437.5, purchase of treasury shares of $372.8, and an $86.4 payment to terminate the tax receivable agreement assumed with the acquisition of Hostess Brands. Cash used for financing activities in 2023 consisted primarily of dividend payments of $430.2, purchase of treasury shares of $367.5, and a net decrease in short-term borrowings of $185.9. Supplier Financing Program As part of ongoing efforts to maximize working capital, we work with our suppliers to optimize our terms and conditions, which includes the extension of payment terms. Payment terms with our suppliers, which we deem to be commercially reasonable, range from 0 to 180 days. We have an agreement with a third-party administrator to provide an accounts payable tracking system and facilitate a supplier financing program, which allows participating suppliers the ability to monitor and voluntarily elect to sell our payment obligations to a designated third-party financial institution. Participating suppliers can sell one or more of our payment obligations at their sole discretion, and our rights and obligations to our suppliers are not impacted. We have no economic interest in a supplier’s decision to enter into these agreements. Our rights and obligations to our suppliers, including amounts due and scheduled payment terms, are not impacted by our suppliers’ decisions to sell amounts under these arrangements. As of April 30, 2024 and 2023, $384.9 and $414.2 of our outstanding payment obligations, respectively, were elected and sold to a financial institution by participating suppliers. During 2024 and 2023, we paid $1,685.5 and $1,495.2, respectively, to a financial institution for payment obligations that were settled through the supplier financing program. Contingencies We, like other food manufacturers, are from time to time subject to various administrative, regulatory, and other legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. We are currently a defendant in a variety of such legal proceedings, and while we cannot predict with certainty the ultimate results of these proceedings or potential settlements associated with these or other matters, we have accrued losses for certain contingent liabilities that we have determined are probable and reasonably estimable at April 30, 2024. Based on the information known to date, with the exception of the matters discussed below, we do not believe the final outcome of these proceedings will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Class Action Lawsuits : We are defendants in a series of putative class action lawsuits that were transferred to the United States District Court for the Western District of Missouri for coordinated pre-trial proceedings. The plaintiffs assert claims arising under various state laws for false advertising, consumer protection, deceptive and unfair trade practices, and similar statutes. Their claims are premised on allegations that we have misrepresented the number of servings that can be made from various canisters of Folgers coffee on the packaging for those products. The outcome and the financial impact of these cases, if any, cannot be predicted at this time. Accordingly, no loss contingency has been recorded for these matters as of April 30, 2024, and the likelihood of loss is not considered probable or reasonably estimable. However, if we are required to pay significant damages, our business and financial results could be adversely impacted, and sales of those products could suffer not only in these locations but elsewhere. Product Recall : In May 2022, we initiated a voluntary recall of select Jif peanut butter products produced at our Lexington, Kentucky facility and sold primarily in the U.S., due to potential salmonella contamination. At that time, we also suspended the manufacturing of Jif peanut butter products at the Lexington facility. We partnered with retailers to restock Jif peanut butter products and returned to normal levels by the end of 2023. During 2023 and 2022, we recognized total direct costs associated with the recall of approximately $120.0, net of insurance recoveries, related to customer returns, fees, unsaleable inventory, and other product recall-related costs, primarily within our U.S. Retail Frozen Handheld and Spreads segment. There were no significant direct costs recognized during 2024. Further, the FDA issued a Warning Letter on January 24, 2023, following an inspection of our Lexington facility completed in June 2022 in connection with the Jif voluntary recall, identifying concerns regarding certain practices and controls at the facility. We responded to the Warning Letter with a detailed explanation of our food safety plan and extensive verification activities to prevent contamination in Jif peanut butter products. In addition, we strengthened our already stringent quality 37 processes. The FDA delivered its Establishment Inspection Report concluding the June 2022 inspection in March 2024. Although the FDA has concluded its inspection, other agencies may nonetheless conclude that certain practices or controls were not in compliance with the FDCA or other laws. Any potential regulatory action based on such an agency conclusion could result in the imposition of injunctive terms and monetary payments that could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, brand, results of operations, and financial performance, as well as affect ongoing consumer litigation associated with the voluntary recall of Jif peanut butter products. The outcome and financial impact of the ongoing consumer litigation or any potential regulatory action associated with the Jif voluntary recall cannot be predicted at this time. Accordingly, no loss contingency has been recorded for these matters as of April 30, 2024, and the likelihood of loss is not considered probable or reasonably estimable. Voortman Contingency : In December 2020, Hostess Brands asserted claims for indemnification against the sellers (the “Sellers”) under the terms of a Share Purchase Agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) pursuant to which Hostess Brands acquired Voortman Cookies Limited (“Voortman”). The claims were for damages arising out of alleged breaches by the Sellers of certain representations, warranties, and covenants contained in the Purchase Agreement relating to periods prior to the closing of the acquisition. Hostess Brands also submitted claims relating to these alleged breaches under the representation and warranty insurance policy (“RWI”) that was purchased in connection with the acquisition. In the third quarter of calendar 2022, the RWI insurers paid Hostess Brands $42.5 CAD (the RWI coverage limit) (the “Proceeds”) related to these breaches. Per agreement with the RWI insurers, we will not be required to return the Proceeds under any circumstances. On November 3, 2022, pursuant to the agreement with the RWI insurers, Voortman brought claims in the Ontario (Canada) Superior Court of Justice (the “Claim”), related to the breaches against certain of the Sellers. The Claim alleges the seller defendants made certain non-disclosures and misrepresentations to induce Hostess Brands to overpay for Voortman. We are seeking damages of $109.0 CAD representing the amount of the aggregate liability of the Sellers for indemnification under the Purchase Agreement, $5.0 CAD in punitive or aggravated damages, interest, proceedings fees, and any other relief the presiding court deems appropriate. A portion of any recovery will be shared with the RWI insurers. Although we believe that the Claim is meritorious, no assurance can be given as to whether we will recover all, or any part, of the amounts being pursued. Capital Resources The following table presents our capital structure. In September 2023, we entered into a Term Loan with a group of banks for an unsecured $800.0 term facility. Borrowings under the Term Loan bear interest based on the prevailing Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”). In November 2023, the full amount was drawn on the Term Loan to partially finance the acquisition of Hostess Brands and to pay off the debt assumed as part of the acquisition, as discussed in Note 2: Acquisition. As of April 30, 2024, the $800.0 Term Loan was prepaid in full. In September 2023, we entered into a commitment letter for a $5.2 billion 364-day senior unsecured Bridge Term Loan Credit Facility (“Bridge Loan”) that provided committed financing for the acquisition of Hostess Brands, as discussed in Note 2: Acquisition. No balances were drawn against this facility, as the commitment letter was terminated after completion of the Senior Notes offering and drawing on the Term Loan. In October 2023, we completed an offering of $3.5 billion in Senior Notes due November 15, 2028, November 15, 2033, November 15, 2043, and November 15, 2053. The net proceeds from the offering were used to partially finance the acquisition of Hostess Brands and pay off the debt assumed as part of the acquisition. 38 We have available a $2.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of 11 banks that matures in August 2026. Additionally, we participate in a commercial paper program under which we can issue short-term, unsecured commercial paper not to exceed $2.0 billion at any time. The commercial paper program is backed by our revolving credit facility and reduces what we can borrow under the revolving credit facility by the amount of commercial paper outstanding. Commercial paper is used as a continuing source of short-term financing for general corporate purposes. As of April 30, 2024, we had $591.0 of short-term borrowings outstanding, which were issued under our commercial paper program at a weighted-average interest rate of 5.48 percent. We are in compliance with all our debt covenants as of April 30, 2024, and expect to be for the next 12 months. For additional information on our long-term debt, sources of liquidity, and debt covenants, see Note 8: Debt and Financing Arrangements. Dividend payments were $437.5 and $430.2 in 2024 and 2023, respectively, and quarterly dividends declared per share were $4.24 and $4.08 in 2024 and 2023, respectively. The declaration of dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board and depends on various factors, such as our net income (loss), financial condition, cash requirements, future events, and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. On March 2, 2023, we entered into a share repurchase plan (“10b5-1 Plan”) established in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act in connection with the remaining common shares authorized for repurchase by the Board, which was approximately 3.5 million common shares as of April 30, 2023. In accordance with the 10b5-1 Plan, our designated broker had the authority to repurchase approximately 2.4 million common shares, which commenced upon the sale of certain pet food brands on April 28, 2023, and expired 45 calendar days after the closure of the transaction. In 2024, we repurchased approximately 2.4 million common shares for $362.8 under the 10b5-1 Plan, and approximately 1.1 million common shares remain available for repurchase. In accordance with The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, H.R. 5376 (the “Inflation Reduction Act”), a one percent excise tax was applied to share repurchases after December 31, 2022. As a result, an excise tax of $3.6 was accrued on the repurchased shares during 2024, and included within additional capital in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. In 2023, we repurchased approximately 2.4 million common shares for $358.0 pursuant to the authorizations of the Board and an excise tax of $3.6 was accrued on the repurchased shares. All other share repurchases during 2024 and 2023 consisted of shares repurchased from stock plan recipients in lieu of cash payments. On November 7, 2023, we acquired Hostess Brands, and as a result, we issued approximately 4.0 million common shares valued at $450.2 in exchange for the outstanding shares of Hostess Brands common stock to partially fund the acquisition of Hostess Brands. The shares issued were based on each outstanding share of Hostess Brands common stock receiving $30.00 per share in cash and 0.03002 shares of our common shares, which represented a value of $4.25 based on the closing stock price of our common shares on September 8, 2023, the last trading day preceding September 11, 2023, the date on which the execution of the Hostess Brands merger agreement was publicly announced. For additional information on the acquisition of Hostess Brands, see Note 2: Acquisition. In November 2021, we announced plans to invest $1.1 billion to build a new manufacturing facility and distribution center in McCalla, Alabama dedicated to production of Smucker’s Uncrustables frozen sandwiches. Construction of this facility began in 2022, with production expected to begin in 2025. The project demonstrates our commitment to meet increasing demand for this highly successful product and deliver on our strategy to focus on brands with the most significant growth opportunities. Construction of the facility and production will occur in three phases over multiple years, with financial investments and job creation aligning across each of the three phases. During the fourth quarter of 2024, property damage was incurred at the new manufacturing facility as a result of an equipment fire. Based on our assessment of the damage, the financial impact, net of the anticipated insurance recovery, was not material during 2024, and we expect minimal impact in 2025. Further, we do not anticipate a significant delay in beginning production in 2025. 39 The following table presents certain cash requirements related to 2025 investing and financing activities based on our current expectations. Absent any material acquisitions, apart from the recent acquisition of Hostess Brands, or other significant investments, we believe that cash on hand, combined with cash provided by operations, borrowings available under our revolving credit facility and commercial paper program, and access to capital markets, will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements for the next 12 months, including the payment of quarterly dividends, principal and interest payments on debt outstanding, and capital expenditures. However, as a result of the current macroeconomic environment and the recent acquisition, we may experience an increase in the cost or the difficulty to obtain debt or equity financing, or to refinance our debt in the future. We continue to evaluate these risks, which could affect our financial condition or our ability to fund operations or future investment opportunities. During 2024, we returned $61.2 of foreign cash to the U.S. from Canada, reflecting intercompany debt repayments, and as a result, there were no tax impacts. As of April 30, 2024, total cash and cash equivalents of $38.4 was held by our foreign subsidiaries, primarily in Canada. Material Cash Requirements The following table summarizes our material cash requirements by fiscal year at April 30, 2024. (A) Long-term debt obligations, including current portion, excludes the impact of offering discounts, make-whole payments, and debt issuance costs. (B) Interest payments consist of the interest payments for our fixed-rate Senior Notes. (C) Purchase obligations includes agreements that are enforceable and legally bind us to purchase goods or services, which primarily consist of obligations related to normal, ongoing purchase obligations in which we have guaranteed payment to ensure availability of raw materials. We expect to receive consideration for these purchase obligations in the form of materials and services. These purchase obligations do not represent all future purchases expected but represent only those items for which we are contractually obligated. Amounts included in the table above represent our current best estimate of payments due. Actual cash payments may vary due to the variable pricing components of certain purchase obligations. Our other cash requirements at April 30, 2024, primarily included operating and finance lease obligations, which consist of the minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating and finance leases. As of April 30, 2024, we had total undiscounted minimum lease payments of $212.3 and $12.3 related to our operating and finance leases, respectively. For additional information, see Note 12: Leases. In addition, we have other liabilities which consisted primarily of projected commitments associated with our defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans, as disclosed in Note 9: Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits. The total liability for our unrecognized tax benefits and tax-related net interest at April 30, 2024, was $5.5 under Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 740, Income Taxes ; however, we are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of cash settlements with the respective taxing authorities. For additional information, see Note 14: Income Taxes. As of April 30, 2024, we do not have material off-balance sheet arrangements, financings, or other relationships with unconsolidated entities or other persons, also known as variable interest entities. Transactions with related parties are in the ordinary course of business and are not material to our results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. 40 NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES We use non-GAAP financial measures including: net sales excluding acquisition, divestitures, and foreign currency exchange, adjusted gross profit, adjusted operating income, adjusted income, adjusted earnings per share, and free cash flow, as key measures for purposes of evaluating performance internally. We believe that investors’ understanding of our performance is enhanced by disclosing these performance measures. Furthermore, these non-GAAP financial measures are used by management in preparation of the annual budget and for the monthly analyses of our operating results. The Board also utilizes certain non-GAAP financial measures as components for measuring performance for incentive compensation purposes. Non-GAAP financial measures exclude certain items affecting comparability that can significantly affect the year-over-year assessment of operating results, which include amortization expense and impairment charges related to intangible assets, special project costs, gains and losses on divestitures, the change in net cumulative unallocated derivative gains and losses, and other infrequently occurring items that do not directly reflect ongoing operating results. Income taxes, as adjusted is calculated using an adjusted effective income tax rate that is applied to adjusted income before income taxes and reflects the exclusion of the previously discussed items, as well as any adjustments for one-time tax-related activities, when they occur. While this adjusted effective income tax rate does not generally differ materially from our GAAP effective income tax rate, certain exclusions from non-GAAP results, such as the unfavorable tax impacts associated with the acquisition of Hostess Brands in 2024 and unfavorable permanent tax impacts of the divestiture of certain pet food brands during 2023, can significantly impact our adjusted effective income tax rate. These non-GAAP financial measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Rather, the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures supplements other metrics we use to internally evaluate our business and facilitate the comparison of past and present operations and liquidity. These non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies and may exclude certain nondiscretionary expenses and cash payments. The following table reconciles certain non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP financial measure. See page 32 for a reconciliation of net sales adjusted for certain noncomparable items to the comparable GAAP financial measure. (A)    Includes certain divestiture, acquisition, and restructuring costs. For more information, see Note 4: Special Project Costs, Note 5: Reportable Segments, and Note 8: Debt and Financing Arrangements. (B)    Realized loss on investment in equity securities – net includes gains and losses resulting from the change in fair value of our investment in Post common stock and the related equity forward contract, which was settled on November 15, 2023. For more information, see Note 3: Divestitures, Note 10: Derivative Financial Instruments, and Note 11: Other Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements. (C)    Represents the nonrecurring pre-tax settlement charge recognized during 2024 related to the acceleration of prior service cost for the  portion of the plan surplus to be allocated to plan members within our Canadian defined benefit plans, which is subject to regulatory approval before a payout can be made. For additional information, see Note 9: Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits. (D)    Adjusted earnings per common share – assuming dilution for 2024 and 2023 was computed using the treasury stock method. Further, in 2023, the weighted-average shares – assuming dilution differed from our GAAP weighted-average common shares outstanding – assuming dilution as a result of the anti-dilutive effect of our stock-based awards, which were excluded from the computation of net loss per share – assuming dilution. For more information, see Earnings Per Share in Note 1: Accounting Policies and Note 6: Earnings Per Share. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND POLICIES The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires that we make estimates and assumptions that in certain circumstances affect amounts reported in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. In preparing these financial statements, we have made our best estimates and judgments of certain amounts included in the financial statements, giving due consideration to materiality. We do not believe there is a great likelihood that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions related to the accounting policies described below. However, application of these accounting policies involves the exercise of judgment and use of assumptions as to future uncertainties and, as a result, actual results could differ from these estimates. Trade Marketing and Merchandising Programs: In order to support our products sold within the U.S. retail market segments and Sweet Baked Snacks segment, various promotional activities are conducted through retailers, distributors, or directly with consumers, including in-store display and product placement programs, price discounts, coupons, and other similar activities. The costs of these programs are classified as a reduction of sales. We regularly review and revise, when we deem necessary, estimates of costs for these promotional programs based on estimates of what will be redeemed by retailers, distributors, or consumers. These estimates are made using various techniques, including historical data on performance of similar promotional programs. Differences between estimated expenditures and actual performance are recognized as a change in estimate in a subsequent period. During 2024, 2023, and 2022, subsequent period adjustments were less than 2 percent of both consolidated pre-tax adjusted income and cash provided by operating activities. Income Taxes: We account for income taxes using the liability method. In the ordinary course of business, we are exposed to uncertainties related to tax filing positions and periodically assess the technical merits of these tax positions for all tax years that remain subject to examination, based upon the latest information available. We recognize a tax benefit when it is more likely than not the position will be sustained upon examination, based on its technical merits. The tax position is then measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We routinely evaluate the likelihood of realizing the benefit of our deferred tax assets and may record a valuation allowance if, based on all available evidence, we determine that it is more likely than not that all or some portion of such assets will not be realized. Valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets can be affected by changes in tax laws, statutory tax rates, and projected future taxable income levels. Changes in estimated realization of deferred tax assets would result in an adjustment to income in the period in which that determination is made, unless such changes are determined to be an adjustment to goodwill within the allowable measurement period under the acquisition method of accounting. The future tax benefit arising from the net deductible temporary differences and tax carryforwards was $279.8 and $196.8 at April 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets within the jurisdiction from which they arise, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and results of operations. For those jurisdictions where the expiration date of tax carryforwards or the projected operating results indicate that realization is not likely, a valuation allowance has been provided. As of April 30, 2024, a portion of our undistributed foreign earnings, primarily in Canada, is not considered permanently reinvested, and an immaterial deferred tax liability has been recognized accordingly. For additional information, see Note 14: Income Taxes. Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets: A significant portion of our assets is composed of goodwill and other intangible assets, the majority of which are not amortized but are reviewed for impairment at least annually on February 1, and more often if indicators of impairment exist. At April 30, 2024, the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets totaled $14.9 billion, compared to total assets of $20.3 billion and total shareholders’ equity of $7.7 billion. If the carrying value of these assets exceeds the current estimated fair value, the asset is considered impaired, which would result in a noncash impairment charge to earnings, that could be material. Events and conditions that could result in impairment include a sustained drop in the market price of our common shares, increased competition or loss of market share, obsolescence, product claims that result in a significant loss of sales or profitability over the product life, deterioration in macroeconomic conditions, declining financial performance in comparison to projected results, increased input costs beyond projections, or divestitures of significant brands. 41 To test for goodwill impairment, we estimate the fair value of each of our reporting units using both a discounted cash flow valuation technique and a market-based approach. The impairment test incorporates estimates of future cash flows; allocations of certain assets, liabilities, and cash flows among reporting units; future growth rates; terminal value amounts; and the applicable weighted-average cost of capital used to discount those estimated cash flows. The estimates and projections used in the calculation of fair value are consistent with our current and long-range plans, including anticipated changes in market conditions, industry trends, growth rates, and planned capital expenditures. Changes in forecasted operations and other estimates and assumptions could impact the assessment of impairment in the future. At April 30, 2024, goodwill totaled $7.6 billion. Goodwill is substantially concentrated within the U.S. retail market segments and Sweet Baked Snacks segment. During 2024, no goodwill impairment was recognized as a result of the evaluations performed throughout the year. The estimated fair value exceeded the carrying value by greater than 10 percent for all of our reporting units with a goodwill balance as of the annual test date, with the exception of the Sweet Baked Snacks reporting unit, for which its fair value exceeded its carrying value by approximately 3 percent. A sensitivity analysis was performed for the Sweet Baked Snacks reporting unit, assuming a hypothetical 50-basis-point decrease in the expected long-term growth rate or a hypothetical 50-basis-point increase in the weighted average cost of capital, and both scenarios independently yielded an estimated fair value for the Sweet Baked Snacks reporting unit below carrying value. The carrying value of the goodwill within the Sweet Baked Snacks segment was $2.4 billion as of April 30, 2024, and remains susceptible to future impairment charges due to narrow differences between fair value and carrying value, which is attributable to the recent acquisition of Hostess Brands. Any significant adverse change in our near or long-term projections or macroeconomic conditions could result in future impairment charges which could be material. For additional information, see Note 7: Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Other indefinite-lived intangible assets, consisting entirely of trademarks, are also tested for impairment at least annually and more often if events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying values may be below their fair values. To test these assets for impairment, we estimate the fair value of each asset based on a discounted cash flow model using various inputs, including projected revenues, an assumed royalty rate, and a discount rate. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could impact the assessment of impairment in the future. At April 30, 2024, other indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled $4.3 billion. Trademarks that represent our leading brands comprise more than 95 percent of the total carrying value of other indefinite-lived intangible assets. As of April 30, 2024, the estimated fair value was substantially in excess of the carrying value for the majority of these leading brand trademarks, and in all instances, the estimated fair value exceeded the carrying value by greater than 10 percent, with the exception of the other indefinite-lived intangible assets within the Sweet Baked Snacks segment, as the carrying value approximates fair value due to the recent acquisition of Hostess Brands. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws. The forward-looking statements may include statements concerning our current expectations, estimates, assumptions, and beliefs concerning future events, conditions, plans, and strategies that are not historical fact. Any statement that is not historical in nature is a forward-looking statement and may be identified by the use of words and phrases such as “expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “intend,” “will,” “plan,” and similar phrases. Federal securities laws provide a safe harbor for forward-looking statements to encourage companies to provide prospective information. We are providing this cautionary statement in connection with the safe harbor provisions. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, as such statements are by nature subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors, many of which are outside of our control and could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements and from our historical results and experience. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those set forth under the caption “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as the following: • our ability to successfully integrate Hostess Brands’ operations and employees and to implement plans and achieve financial forecasts with respect to the Hostess Brands’ business; • our ability to realize the anticipated benefits, including synergies and cost savings, related to the Hostess Brands acquisition, including the possibility that the expected benefits will not be realized or will not be realized within the expected time period; 42 • disruption from the acquisition of Hostess Brands by diverting the attention of our management and making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships; • the negative effects of the acquisition of Hostess Brands on the market price of our common shares; • the amount of the costs, fees, expenses, and charges and the risk of litigation related to the acquisition of Hostess Brands; • the effect of the acquisition of Hostess Brands on our business relationships, operating results, ability to hire and retain key talent, and business generally; • disruptions or inefficiencies in our operations or supply chain, including any impact caused by product recalls, political instability, terrorism, geopolitical conflicts (including the ongoing conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and Israel and Hamas), extreme weather conditions, natural disasters, pandemics, work stoppages or labor shortages, or other calamities; • risks related to the availability of, and cost inflation in, supply chain inputs, including labor, raw materials, commodities, packaging, and transportation; • the impact of food security concerns involving either our products or our competitors’ products, including changes in consumer preference, consumer litigation, actions by the FDA or other agencies, and product recalls; • risks associated with derivative and purchasing strategies we employ to manage commodity pricing and interest rate risks; • the availability of reliable transportation on acceptable terms; • our ability to achieve cost savings related to our restructuring and cost management programs in the amounts and within the time frames currently anticipated; • our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to continue operating under our capital deployment model, including capital expenditures, debt repayment to meet our deleveraging objectives, dividend payments, and share repurchases; • a change in outlook or downgrade in our public credit ratings by a rating agency below investment grade; • our ability to implement and realize the full benefit of price changes, and the impact of the timing of the price changes to profits and cash flow in a particular period; • the success and cost of marketing and sales programs and strategies intended to promote growth in our business, including product innovation; • general competitive activity in the market, including competitors’ pricing practices and promotional spending levels; • our ability to attract and retain key talent; • the concentration of certain of our businesses with key customers and suppliers, including primary or single-source suppliers of certain key raw materials and finished goods, and our ability to manage and maintain key relationships; • impairments in the carrying value of goodwill, other intangible assets, or other long-lived assets or changes in the useful lives of other intangible assets or other long-lived assets; • the impact of new or changes to existing governmental laws and regulations and their application; • the outcome of tax examinations, changes in tax laws, and other tax matters; • a disruption, failure, or security breach of our or our suppliers’ IT systems, including, but not limited to, ransomware attacks; • foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations; and • risks related to other factors described under “Risk Factors” in other reports and statements we have filed with the SEC. Readers are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made, when evaluating the information presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We do not undertake any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect new events or circumstances subsequent to the filing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 43