********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The following discussion of risk factors known to us contains important information for the understanding of our “forward-looking statements,” which are discussed immediately following Item 7A. of this Form 10-K and elsewhere.  These risk factors should also be read in conjunction with Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included in this Form 10-K. We urge you to consider carefully the risks described below, which discuss the material factors that make an investment in our securities speculative or risky, as well as in other reports and materials that we file with the SEC and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K.  Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Business and Operational Risks Demand for our products and services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by our customers.  The current significant oil and gas industry downturn has resulted in reduced demand for oilfield services and lower expenditures by our customers, which has had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Demand for our products and services depends substantially on expenditures by our customers for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves.  These expenditures are generally dependent on our customers’ views of future oil and natural gas prices, as well as their ability to access capital.  These expenditures are also sensitive to our customers’ views of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. The continued low oil and gas prices have also caused a reduction in cash flows for our customers, which has had a significant adverse effect on the financial condition of some of our customers.  This has resulted in, and may continue to result in, lower capital expenditures, project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in payment of, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us.  These effects have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Historically, oil and natural gas prices have experienced significant volatility and can be affected by a variety of factors, including: 10 The oil and gas industry has historically been extremely cyclical.  However, there can be no assurance that the demand or pricing for oil and natural gas or for our products and services will follow historic patterns or recover meaningfully in the near or medium term. Continued or worsening conditions in the oil and gas industry generally may have a further material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly reduced demand for our services, and has had, and is likely to continue to have, a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, including actions taken by businesses and governments to contain the spread of the virus, have resulted in a significant and swift reduction in international and US economic activity.  In our industry, geopolitical events that increased the supply of low-priced oil to the global market occurred at the same time that demand weakened due to the worldwide effects of the pandemic, leading to a collapse in oil prices in March 2020.  These events together adversely affected the demand for oil and natural gas, as well as for our services and products, and caused significant volatility and disruption of the global financial markets.  Other effects of the pandemic have included, and may continue to include, adverse revenue and net income effects; disruptions to our operations, including suspension or deferral of drilling activities ; customer shutdowns of oil and gas exploration and production; downward revisions to customer budgets; limitations on access to sources of liquidity; employee impacts from illness, school closures and other community response measures; workforce reductions in response to activity declines; and temporary closures of our facilities or the facilities of our customers and suppliers.  This period of extreme economic disruption, low oil prices and reduced demand for our products and services has had, and is likely to continue to have, a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The extent to which our operating and financial results will continue to be affected by the COVID-19 pandemic will depend on various factors and consequences beyond our control, such as the duration and scope of the pandemic; additional actions by businesses and governments in response to the pandemic; and the speed and effectiveness of responses to combat the virus, including vaccine development and distribution.  COVID-19, and the volatile regional and global economic conditions stemming from the pandemic, could also aggravate our other risk factors described in this Form 10-K. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-US operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in the more than 120 countries in which we generate revenue. Our non-US operations accounted for approximately 81% of our consolidated revenue in 2020, 72% in 2019 and 68% in 2018.  In addition to the risks addressed elsewhere in this section, our operations in countries other than the United States are subject to various risks, including: 11 Severe weather, including extreme weather conditions associated with climate change, has in the past and may in the future adversely affect our operations and financial results. Our business has been, and in the future will be, affected by severe weather in areas where we operate, which could materially affect our operations and financial results.  Extreme weather conditions such as hurricanes, flooding and landslides have in the past resulted in, and may in the future result in, the evacuation of personnel, stoppage of services and activity disruptions at our facilities, in our supply chain, or at well-sites.  Particularly severe weather events affecting platforms or structures may result in a suspension of activities.  In addition, impacts of climate change, such as sea level rise, coastal storm surge, inland flooding from intense rainfall and hurricane-strength winds may damage our facilities.  Any such extreme weather-related events may result in increased operating costs or decreases in revenue which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Legal and Regulatory Risks Our operations require us to comply with numerous laws and regulations, violations of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition or cash flows. Our operations are subject to international, regional, national, and local laws and regulations in every place where we operate, relating to matters such as environmental protection, health and safety, labor and employment, import/export controls, currency exchange, bribery and corruption, data privacy and cybersecurity, intellectual property, immigration, and taxation.  These laws and regulations are complex, frequently change, and have tended to become more stringent over time.  In the event the scope of these laws and regulations expands in the future, the incremental cost of compliance could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Our international operations are subject to anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws and regulations, such as the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act and other similar laws.  We are also subject to trade control regulations and trade sanctions laws that restrict the movement of certain goods to, and certain operations in, various countries or with certain persons.  Our ability to transfer people, products and data among certain countries is subject to maintaining required licenses and complying with these laws and regulations. The internal controls, policies and procedures, and employee training and compliance programs we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies or from material violations of applicable laws and regulations.  Any determination that we have violated or are responsible for violations of anti-bribery, trade control, trade sanctions or anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.  Violations of international and US laws and regulations or the loss of any required licenses may result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies or restrictions on business conduct, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition.  In addition, any major violations could have a significant effect on our reputation and consequently on our ability to win future business and maintain existing customer and supplier relationships. Demand for our products and services could be reduced by existing and future legislation, regulations and public sentiment. Regulatory agencies and environmental advocacy groups in the European Union, the United States and other regions or countries have been focusing considerable attention on the emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases and their role in climate change.  There is also increased focus, including by governments and our customers, investors and other stakeholders, on these and other sustainability and energy transition matters.  Existing or future legislation and regulations related to greenhouse gas emissions and climate change, as well as initiatives by governments, non-governmental organizations, and companies to conserve energy or promote the use of alternative energy sources, and negative attitudes toward or perceptions of fossil fuel products and their relationship to the environment, may significantly curtail demand for and production of oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate, and thus reduce future demand for our products and services.  This may, in turn, adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  Our business, reputation and demand for our stock could be negatively affected if we do not (or are perceived to not) act responsibly with respect to sustainability matters. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities arising as a result of environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including those governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management, as well as the importation and use of hazardous materials, radioactive materials, chemicals and explosives.  We incur, and expect to continue to incur, significant capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations.  The technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, stringent and expensive to implement.  These laws sometimes provide for “strict liability” for remediation costs, damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety.  Strict liability can render us liable for damages without regard to our degree of care or fault.  Some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances, and, as a result, we could be liable for the actions of others. We use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations.  In addition, many of our current and former properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes.  Accordingly, we could become subject to material liabilities relating to the investigation 12 and cleanup of potentially contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. In addition, stricter enforcement or changing interpretations of existing laws and regulations, the enactment of new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition. We could be subject to substantial liability claims, including well incidents, which could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The technical complexities of our operations expose us to a wide range of significant health, safety and environmental risks.  Our operations involve production-related activities, radioactive materials, chemicals, explosives and other equipment and services that are deployed in challenging exploration, development and production environments.  Accidents or acts of malfeasance involving these services or equipment, or a failure of a product (including as a result of a cyberattack), could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, equipment or the environment, or suspension of operations, which could materially adversely affect us.  Any well incidents, including blowouts at a well site, may expose us to additional liabilities, which could be material.  Generally, we rely on contractual indemnities, releases, and limitations on liability with our customers and insurance to protect us from potential liability related to such events.  However, our insurance may not protect us against liability for certain kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption.  Moreover, we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate.  Any damages caused by our services or products that are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits or subject to substantial deductibles, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Intellectual Property and Technology Risks If we are unable to maintain technology leadership, this could adversely affect any competitive advantage we hold. The oilfield services industry is highly competitive.  Our business may be adversely affected if we fail to continue to develop and produce competitive technologies in response to changes in the market, customer requirements and technology trends (including trends in favor of emissions-reducing technologies), or if we fail to deliver such technologies to our customers in a timely and cost-competitive manner in the various markets we serve.  If we are unable to maintain technology leadership in our industry, our ability to maintain market share, defend, maintain or increase prices for our products and services, and negotiate acceptable contract terms with our customers could be adversely affected.  Furthermore, if our equipment or proprietary technologies become obsolete, the value of our intellectual property may be reduced, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Limitations on our ability to obtain, maintain, protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage we hold. There can be no assurance that the steps we take to obtain, maintain, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights will be adequate.  Some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide them, have been granted patent protection, have patent applications pending, or are trade secrets.  Our business may be adversely affected when our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications are denied, or our trade secrets are not adequately protected.  Patent protection on some types of technology, such as software or machine learning processes, may not be available in certain countries in which we operate.  Our competitors may also be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Third parties may claim that we have infringed upon, misappropriated or otherwise violated their intellectual property rights. The tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services and products may infringe upon, misappropriate or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others or be challenged on that basis.  Regardless of the merits, any such claims generally result in significant legal and other costs, including reputational harm, and may distract management from running our business.  Resolving such claims could increase our costs, including through royalty payments to acquire licenses, if available, from third parties and through the development of replacement technologies.  If a license to resolve a claim were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Failure to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede our operations. We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business.  Competition for the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as activity increases and technology evolves.  In periods of high utilization, it is often more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals.  This could increase our costs or have other material adverse effects on our operations. 13 Our operations are subject to cyber incidents that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are increasingly dependent on digital technologies and services to conduct our business.  We use these technologies for internal purposes, including data storage, processing and transmissions, as well as in our interactions with our business associates, such as customers and suppliers.  In addition, we develop software and other digital products and services that store, retrieve, manipulate and manage our customers’ information and data, external data, and our own data.  Our digital technologies and services, and those of our business associates, are subject to the risk of cyberattacks and, given the nature of such attacks, some incidents can remain undetected for a period of time despite efforts to detect and respond to them in a timely manner.  There can be no assurance that the systems we have designed to prevent or limit the effects of cyber incidents or attacks will be sufficient to prevent or detect material consequences arising from such incidents or attacks, or to avoid a material adverse impact on our systems after such incidents or attacks do occur.  We have experienced and will continue to experience varying degrees of cyber incidents in the normal conduct of our business, including attacks resulting from phishing emails and ransomware infections.  Even if we successfully defend our own digital technologies and services, we also rely on third-party business associates, with whom we may share data and services, to defend their digital technologies and services against attack. We could suffer significant damage to our reputation if a cyber incident or attack were to allow unauthorized access to or modification of our customers’ data, other external data, or our own data, or if the services we provide to our customers were disrupted, or if our digital products or services were reported to have or were perceived as having security vulnerabilities.  This could lead to fewer customers using our digital products and services, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, if our systems, or our third-party business associates’ systems, for protecting against cybersecurity risks prove to be insufficient, we could be adversely affected by, among other things, loss of or damage to intellectual property, proprietary or confidential information, or customer, supplier, or employee data; interruption of our business operations; increased legal and regulatory exposure and costs; and increased costs required to prevent, respond to, or mitigate cybersecurity attacks.  These risks could harm our reputation and our relationships with our employees, business associates and other third parties, and may result in claims against us.  The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, statements relating to our plans, strategies, objectives, expectations, intentions and resources.  Such forward-looking statements should be read in conjunction with our disclosures under “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Form 10-K. 2020 Executive Overview Global demand for oil dropped precipitously from January through April of 2020, in parallel with the expansion of the COVID-19 coronavirus outbreak, as governments around the world responded with lockdowns and travel decreased significantly.  Global stocks of crude and refined products increased as oil supply could not respond quickly enough to balance the market. As a result, Brent crude oil experienced its highest price of the year—$70 per barrel—in January, with a low of $9 per barrel in mid-April.  Collaboration between OPEC and non-OPEC suppliers, including Russia, led to extraordinary supply intervention, resulting in the removal of more than eight million barrels per day (“bbl/d”) of oil supply from the markets between April and June.  This eased pressure on oil storage capacity and allowed the Brent price to stabilize in the $40 range until gaining strength in December, where it closed at $52 per barrel. The OPEC-led supply alliance maintained production within an agreed quota and helped to maintain a relatively stable oil price, despite oil demand in the second half of 2020 being more than five million bbl/d lower than same period of 2019.  Demand for refined products, other than jet fuel, returned to within two million bbl/d of pre-crisis levels by end of 2020. Oil price volatility in the first half of the year, compounded by uncertainty over the pace of COVID-19 recovery, caused producers to lay down more than 40% of the world’s drilling rigs in just six months. This suggests that $40 oil is insufficient to stimulate meaningful drilling activity growth.  However, even with massive demand reduction, the drilling activity necessary to maintain supply is still significant. In the US, operators laid down nearly 70% of active rigs between the first and third quarters of 2020, before adding a modest number of rigs in the fourth quarter. As a result, US crude production fell by nearly two million bbl/d by the end of 2020.  However, the remaining rigs continued to drill in the highest quality reservoirs, which resulted in supply remaining flat over the second half of the year. Though global gas demand also suffered in response to the pandemic’s effect on economic activity, its use for power generation, heating, and as a chemical feedstock made it more resilient than oil demand as the pandemic spread.  Gas demand for 2020 was down only approximately 5% as compared to 2019. US Henry Hub natural gas price averaged $2.03 per million British thermal units (“mmbtu”) for the year, having also fallen in the first half of 2020.  Prices recovered in the second half on decreased tight-oil associated production in line with the reduction of active rigs.  International gas hub prices were more volatile. Against this backdrop, Schlumberger’s full-year 2020 revenue of $23.6 billion declined 28% year-on-year. North American revenue fell sharply by 48% to $5.5 billion.  This decrease was largely driven by weakness in the land market as operators reacted to oversupplied markets by making deep cuts to activity.  North America operators dropped drilling and pressure pumping activity quickly in the first quarter due to the effects of the pandemic on demand, adding a modest volume of completion activity toward the end of the year. International revenue was more resilient, declining only 19% year-on-year.  This decline was most prominent in Latin America, Europe, and Africa due to downward revisions to customer budgets and COVID-19 disruptions. Additionally, during the fourth quarter of 2020, Schlumberger completed two transactions: the contribution of its OneStim business in North America to Liberty Oilfield Services (“Liberty”) in exchange for a 37% stake in Liberty, and the divestiture of the North America low-flow rod-lift business in a cash transaction. These businesses accounted for approximately 25% of Schlumberger’s North America revenue in 2020.  Consequently, the percentage of Schlumberger’s revenue that it generates in the international markets will increase significantly going forward.  The combination of Schlumberger’s fit-for-basin strategy, digital technology innovation, and scale puts the company in the best position to leverage the anticipated shift of spending growth toward the international markets. From a macro perspective, oil prices have risen, buoyed by recent supply-led OPEC+ policy, the ongoing COVID-19 vaccine rollout, and multinational economic stimulus actions—driving optimism for a meaningful oil demand recovery throughout 2021.  We believe that this sets the stage for oil demand to recover to 2019 levels no later than 2023, or earlier as per recent industry analysts’ reports, reinforcing a multiyear cycle recovery as the global economy strengthens.  Absent a change to these macro assumptions, this will translate into meaningful activity increases both in North America and internationally. In North America, spending and activity momentum is expected to continue in the first half of 2021 towards maintenance levels, albeit moderated by capital discipline and industry consolidation. Internationally, following the seasonal effects of the first quarter of 2021, and as OPEC+ responds to strengthening oil demand, higher spending is expected from the second quarter onwards.  Accelerated 17 activity is not expected to extend beyond the short-cycle markets and will be broad, including offshore, as witnessed during the fourth quarter. The quality of Schlumberger’s results in the fourth quarter of 2020 validates the progress of our performance strategy and the reinvention of Schlumberger in this new chapter for the industry.  Building from the swift execution and scale of our cost-out program, we exited the year with quarterly margins reset to 2019 levels as the upcycle begins. Leveraging our high-graded and restructured business portfolio, we see a clear path to achieve double-digit margins in North America and visible international margin improvement in 2021.  Given the depth, diversity, and executional capability of our international business, we believe we are uniquely positioned to benefit as international spending accelerates in the near- and mid-term. By leveraging our new structure, Schlumberger is fully prepared to capitalize on the growth drivers of the future of our industry, particularly as we accelerate our digital growth ambition and lead in the production and recovery market.  Finally, to meet our long-term ambition to bring lower carbon and carbon-neutral energy sources and technology to market, we are visibly expanding our New Energy portfolio, to contribute to the transformation of a more resilient, sustainable, and investable energy services industry. Fourth Quarter 2020 Results Fourth-quarter revenue grew 5% sequentially, driven by strong activity and solid execution both in North America and in the international markets. International revenue of $4.3 billion grew 3% while North America revenue of $1.2 billion increased 13%.  Despite seasonality, revenue grew sequentially in all four Divisions for the first time since the third quarter of 2019. Sequentially, international revenue growth outpaced rig count and was led by Latin America and by a global rebound of activity in most offshore deepwater markets. In the Middle East & Asia, growth was mostly in China, India, and Oman while Saudi Arabia remained resilient. In Europe/CIS/Africa, activity increased significantly in the offshore markets of Africa and several countries in Europe, offset by the seasonal winter slowdown in Russia. In North America, offshore activity in the US Gulf of Mexico grew, and on land, increased horizontal drilling and pressure pumping activity contributed to the higher revenue. Digital & Integration Fourth-quarter revenue of $833 million, 83% of which came from the international markets, increased 13% sequentially. International revenue increased by 14% and North America revenue increased by 6% sequentially. The Digital & Integration revenue increase was primarily driven by APS projects. 18 Digital & Integration pretax operating margin of 32% expanded by 507 basis points (“bps”) sequentially. The margin expansion was primarily in the international markets and was largely driven by improved profitability across APS projects. Reservoir Performance Fourth-quarter revenue of $1.2 billion, 73% of which came from the international markets, increased 3% sequentially. International revenue declined 3% while North America revenue increased 23% sequentially. The revenue increase was primarily driven by higher OneStim activity in North America.  OneStim fourth-quarter revenue of $274 million increased 25% sequentially. This increase, however, was partially offset by seasonality in Russia and reduced activity in the Middle East & Asia. Reservoir Performance pretax operating margin of 8% decreased 84 bps sequentially driven by seasonality in Russia, despite improved North American activity. Well Construction Fourth-quarter revenue of $1.9 billion, 84% of which came from the international markets, increased 2% sequentially. International and North America revenue increased 1% and 7%, respectively. The revenue increase was due to higher activity in North America, Latin America, and the Middle East & Asia, partially offset by seasonality in Russia. Well Construction pretax operating margin of 10% improved by 42 bps sequentially. North America margin improved due to higher drilling activity on land while international margin was essentially flat. Production Systems Fourth-quarter revenue of $1.6 billion, 74% of which came from the international markets, increased 8% sequentially. International and North America revenue increased 7% and 11%, respectively, due to higher activity across all areas. Production Systems pretax operating margin of 9% increased by 82 bps sequentially due to a higher contribution from the long-cycle business of subsea, and improved profitability in surface production systems due to cost reduction measures and higher activity. Full-Year 2020 Results 19 Full-year 2020 revenue of $ 23.6 billion decreased 28 % year-on-year . North America revenue declined 48 % year-on-year reflecting the continued capital discipline of North America operators, who reduced drilling and hydraulic frac turing activity due to the pandemic . International revenue decreased 19 % year-on-year, due to COVID-19-related disruptions, the drop in offshore activity, and reduced customer discretionary spending. Digital & Integration Full-year 2020 revenue of $3.1 billion decreased 26% year-on-year primarily due to lower multiclient and software sales as customers reduced activity due to COVID-19 and cut discretionary spending. Year-on-year pretax operating margin increased 249 bps to 24% largely due to improved APS margins as a result of reduced amortization expense following the asset impairment charges that were recorded in the second quarter of 2020 and the effects of cost cutting efforts. Reservoir Performance Full-year 2020 revenue of $5.6 billion decreased 40% year-on-year.  A little more than half of this revenue decrease was attributable to the sharp drop in OneStim pressure pumping activity in North America land.  The remaining portion of the revenue decline resulted from COVID-19 disruptions that caused international activity to be cancelled or suspended. Year-on-year pretax operating margin decreased 435 bps to 6% due to the steep revenue decline. Well Construction Full-year 2020 revenue of $8.6 billion decreased 28% year-on-year primarily due to the activity decline in US land as the rig count decreased significantly, while COVID-19 disruptions caused drilling activities to be cancelled or suspended in several international markets. Year-on-year pretax operating margin only decreased 196 bps to 10% as the effects of the revenue decline were partially mitigated by prompt cost cutting measures. Production Systems Full-year 2020 revenue of $6.7 billion decreased 19% year-on-year primarily driven by lower sales of valves and surface systems in North America. Year-on-year pretax operating margin decreased 101 bps to 9% due to the revenue decline. Full-Year 2019 Results 20 Full-year 2019 revenue of $32.9 billion was essentially flat year-on-year with North America revenue decreasing 11% and international revenue increasing 7%.  The international results were underpinned by increased investment levels.  In contrast, the North America result reflected a slowing production growth rate on land as operators maintained capital discipline and reduced drilling and hydraulic fracturing activity. Digital & Integration Full-year 2019 revenue of $4.1 billion increased 9% year-on-year primarily driven by increased APS activity. Year-on-year pretax operating margin decreased 181 bps to 21% primarily as a result of a less favorable revenue mix. Reservoir Performance Full-year 2019 revenue of $9.3 billion decreased 7% year-on-year primarily driven by lower OneStim activity in North America as customers reduced spending due to higher cost of capital, lower borrowing capacity and expectations of better return from their shareholders. Year-on-year pretax operating margin decreased 97 bps to 11% primarily due to reduced profitability in OneStim in North America. Well Construction Full-year 2019 revenue of $11.9 billion increased 5% year-on-year primarily due to higher demand for drilling services, largely in the international markets. Year-on-year pretax operating margin decreased 93 bps to 12% despite higher revenue as margins were affected by competitive pricing and higher costs associated with a number of integrated drilling contracts internationally. Production Systems Full-year 2019 revenue of $8.2 billion was essentially flat year-on-year as lower revenue for OneSubsea and valves and process systems was offset by higher surface system and completion sales. Year-on-year pretax operating margin was essentially unchanged at 10.4%. Interest and Other Income Interest & other income consisted of the following: The increase in earnings of equity method investments in 2020 as compared to 2019 is primarily related to higher income associated with Schlumberger’s equity investments in rig- and seismic-related businesses, while the decrease in 2019 as compared to 2018 was primarily related to lower income from those same businesses. The decrease in interest income in 2019 compared to 2018 is primarily attributable to lower cash and short-term investment balances. 21 The unrealized gain on marketable securities in 2020 relates to an investment in a start-up company that Schlumberger previously invested in that completed an initial public offering during the fourth quarter of 2020 . As a result, Schlumberger recognized an unrealized gain of $39 million to increase the carrying value of this investment to its fair value of $43 million as of December 31, 2020 .  See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements . Interest Expense Interest expense of $563 million in 2020 decreased $46 million compared to 2019.  This decrease was primarily due to certain debt being refinanced with lower interest rate debt.  Interest expense of $609 million in 2019 increased $34 million compared to 2018.  This increase is primarily due to an increase in the weighted average debt balance during 2019 as compared to 2018. Other Research & engineering and General & administrative expenses, as a percentage of Revenue , were as follows: Income Taxes The Schlumberger effective tax rate is sensitive to the geographic mix of earnings.  When the percentage of pretax earnings generated outside of North America increases, the Schlumberger effective tax rate generally decreases.  Conversely, when the percentage of pretax earnings generated outside of North America decreases, the Schlumberger effective tax rate generally increases. The Schlumberger effective tax rate was 7% in 2020 as compared to 3% in 2019.  The charges and credits described in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements , reduced the effective tax rate by approximately 12 and 13 points in 2020 and 2019, respectively, as a significant portion of these charges were not tax effective.  Changes in the geographic mix of pretax earnings accounted for the remaining increase in the effective tax rate in 2020 as compared to 2019. The Schlumberger effective tax rate was 3% in 2019 as compared to 17% in 2018.  The lower effective tax rate was almost entirely due to the 2019 charges and credits described in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements , which primarily related to non-deductible goodwill. 22 Charges and Credits Schlumberger recorded significant charges and credits during 2020, 2019 and 2018.  These charges and credits, which are summarized below, are more fully described in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements . The following is a summary of the 2020 charges and credits. As a result of the first quarter 2020 impairment charges, commencing with the second quarter of 2020, depreciation and amortization expense was reduced by approximately $95 million on a quarterly basis.  Approximately $33 million of this quarterly reduction is reflected in the Digital & Integration Division and $12 million is reflected in the Reservoir Performance Division.  The remaining $50 million is reflected in the “Corporate & other” line item. As a result of the second quarter 2020 restructuring and impairment charges, commencing with the third quarter of 2020, depreciation and amortization expense was reduced by approximately $80 million and lease expense was reduced by $25 million on a quarterly basis.  Approximately $51 million of this quarterly reduction is reflected in the Digital & Integration Division and $31 million is reflected in the Reservoir Performance Division, with the remaining $23 million reflected among the Well Construction Division and Production Systems Division. As a result of the third quarter 2020 restructuring charges, commencing with the fourth quarter of 2020, depreciation and lease expense was reduced by $15 million on a quarterly basis.  This quarterly reduction is reflected among all of the Divisions. 23 The following is a summary of the 2019 charges and credits . A significant portion of the third-quarter impairment charges were recorded effective August 31, 2019.  Accordingly, the 2019 results reflect a $108 million reduction in depreciation and amortization expense for the last four months of 2019.  Approximately $64 million of this amount is reflected in the Reservoir Performance Division and $20 million is reflected in the Production Systems Division.  The remaining $24 million is reflected in the “Corporate & other” line item. The following is a summary of the 2018 charges and credits.  The $215 million gain on the sale of the marine seismic acquisition business is classified in Gains on sale of businesses in the Consolidated Statement of Income (Loss) , while the $356 million of charges are classified in Impairments & other . Liquidity and Capital Resources The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic have resulted in a significant and swift reduction in international and US economic activity.  These effects have adversely affected the demand for oil and natural gas, as well as for Schlumberger’s products and services, and caused significant volatility and disruption of the financial markets.  This period of extreme economic disruption, low oil prices and reduced demand for Schlumberger’s products and services has had, and is likely to continue to have, a material adverse impact on Schlumberger’s business, results of operations, financial condition and, at times, access to sources of liquidity. In view of the uncertainty of the depth and extent of the contraction in oil demand due to the COVID-19 pandemic combined with the weaker commodity price environment, Schlumberger turned its strategic focus to cash conservation and protecting its balance sheet.  As a result, in April 2020 Schlumberger announced a 75% reduction to its quarterly cash dividend.  The revised dividend supports Schlumberger’s value proposition through a balanced approach of shareholder distributions and organic investment, while providing flexibility to address the uncertain environment.  This decision reflects the Company’s focus on its capital stewardship program as well as its commitment to maintain both a strong liquidity position and a strong investment grade credit rating that provides privileged access to the financial markets. 24 Details of the components of liquidity as well as changes in liquidity follow: 25 Key liquidity events during 2020, 2019 and 2018 included: The following table summarizes the activity under this share repurchase program during 2020, 2019 and 2018: 26 Schlumberger expects to receive an income tax refund of approximately $0.5 billion in 2021.  This receivable is included in Other current assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2020. Schlumberger has a provision of $0.5 billion relating to severance recorded in its Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2020.  The majority of this balance is expected to be paid during the first half of 2021. As of December 31, 2020, Schlumberger had $3.0 billion of cash and short-term investments on hand.  Schlumberger had committed credit facility agreements with commercial banks aggregating $6.3 billion that support commercial paper programs, of which $5.9 billion was available and unused as of December 31, 2020.  Schlumberger also has a €1.54 billion committed revolving credit facility that expires in the second quarter of 2021 but can be extended at Schlumberger’s option for up to an additional year.  At December 31, 2020, no amounts have been drawn under this facility.  Schlumberger believes these amounts are sufficient to meet future business requirements for at least the next 12 months. The total outstanding commercial paper borrowings were $0.4 billion as of December 31, 2020 and $2.2 billion as of December 31, 2019. Summary of Contractual Obligations Refer to Note 17, Pension and Other Benefit Plans, of the Consolidated Financial Statements for details regarding Schlumberger’s pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. 27 As discussed in Note 13 , Income Taxes , of the Consolidated Financial Statements , included in the Schlumberger Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2020 is approximately $ 1.3 billion of liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions in the over 100 tax jurisdictions in which Schlumberger conducts business. Due to the uncertain and complex application of tax regulations, combined with the difficulty in predicting when tax audits throughout the world may be concluded, Schlumberger cannot make reliable estimates of the timing of cash outflows relating to these liabilities. Schlumberger has outstanding letters of credit/guarantees that relate to business performance bonds, custom/excise tax commitments, facility lease/rental obligations, etc.  These were entered into in the ordinary course of business and are customary practices in the various countries where Schlumberger operates. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires Schlumberger to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses.  The following accounting policies involve “critical accounting estimates” because they are particularly dependent on estimates and assumptions made by Schlumberger about matters that are inherently uncertain. Schlumberger bases its estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.  Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Schlumberger maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts in order to record accounts receivable at their net realizable value.  Judgment is involved in recording and making adjustments to this reserve.  Allowances have been recorded for receivables believed to be uncollectible, including amounts for the resolution of potential credit and other collection issues such as disputed invoices.  Adjustments to the allowance may be required in future periods depending on how such potential issues are resolved, or if the financial condition of Schlumberger’s customers were to deteriorate resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments. As a large multinational company with a long history of operating in a cyclical industry, Schlumberger has extensive experience in working with its customers during difficult times to manage its accounts receivable.  During weak economic environments or when there is an extended period of weakness in oil and gas prices, Schlumberger typically experiences delays in the payment of its receivables.  However, except for a $469 million accounts receivable write-off during the fourth quarter of 2017 as a result of the political and economic condition in Venezuela, Schlumberger has not had material write-offs due to uncollectible accounts receivable over the recent industry downturn.  Schlumberger generates revenue in more than 120 countries.  As of December 31, 2020, only five of those countries individually accounted for greater than 5% of Schlumberger’s net accounts receivable balance, of which only one (Mexico) accounted for greater than 10% of such receivables. Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Long-Lived Assets Schlumberger records the excess of purchase price over the fair value of the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed as goodwill.  The goodwill relating to each of Schlumberger’s reporting units is tested for impairment annually as well as when an event, or change in circumstances, indicates an impairment may have occurred. Under generally accepted accounting principles, Schlumberger has the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of one or more of its reporting units is greater than its carrying amount.  If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, Schlumberger determines it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is greater than its carrying amount, there is no need to perform any further testing.  However, if Schlumberger concludes otherwise, then it is required to perform a quantitative impairment test by calculating the fair value of the reporting unit and comparing the fair value with the carrying amount of the reporting unit.  If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded based on that difference. Schlumberger has the option to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in any period and proceed directly to performing the quantitative goodwill impairment test. During 2020 and 2019, Schlumberger recorded goodwill impairment charges of $3.1 billion and $8.8 billion, respectively.  Refer to Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details regarding the facts and circumstances that led to this impairment and how the fair value of each reporting unit was estimated, including the significant assumptions used and other details. Long-lived assets, including fixed assets, intangible assets and investments in APS projects, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.  In reviewing for impairment, the carrying value of such assets is compared to the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected from the use of the assets and their eventual 28 disposition. If such cash flows are not sufficient to support the asset’s recorded value, an impairment charge is recognized to reduce the carrying value of the long-lived asset to its estimated fair value. The determination of future cash flows as well as the estimated fair value of long-lived assets involves significant estimates on the part of management. If there is a material change in economic conditions or other circumstances influencing the estimate of future cash flows or fair value, Schlumberger could be required to recognize impairment charges in the future. Income Taxes Schlumberger conducts business in more than 100 tax jurisdictions, a number of which have tax laws that are not fully defined and are evolving.  Schlumberger’s tax filings are subject to regular audits by the tax authorities.  These audits may result in assessments for additional taxes that are resolved with the authorities or, potentially, through the courts.  Schlumberger recognizes the impact of a tax position in its financial statements if that position is more likely than not of being sustained on audit, based on the technical merits of the position.  Tax liabilities are recorded based on estimates of additional taxes that will be due upon the conclusion of these audits.  Estimates of these tax liabilities are made based upon prior experience and are updated in light of changes in facts and circumstances.  However, due to the uncertain and complex application of tax regulations, the ultimate resolution of audits may result in liabilities that could be materially different from these estimates.  In such an event, Schlumberger will record additional tax expense or tax benefit in the period in which such resolution occurs. Revenue Recognition for Certain Long-term Construction-type Contracts Schlumberger recognizes revenue for certain long-term construction-type contracts over time.  These contracts involve significant design and engineering efforts in order to satisfy custom designs for customer-specific applications.  Under this method, revenue is recognized as work progresses on each contract.  Progress is measured by the ratio of actual costs incurred to date on the project in relation to total estimated project costs.  Approximately 5% of Schlumberger’s revenue in each of 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, was recognized under this method. The estimate of total project costs has a significant impact on both the amount of revenue recognized as well as the related profit on a project.  Revenue and profits on contracts can also be significantly affected by change orders and claims.  Profits are recognized based on the estimated project profit multiplied by the percentage complete.  Due to the nature of these projects, adjustments to estimates of contract revenue and total contract costs are often required as work progresses.  Any expected losses on a project are recorded in full in the period in which they become probable. Multiclient Seismic Data Schlumberger capitalizes the costs associated with obtaining multiclient seismic data.  The carrying value of the multiclient seismic data library at December 31, 2020 and 2019 was $317 million and $568 million, respectively.  Such costs are charged to Cost of services based on the percentage of the total costs to the estimated total revenue that Schlumberger expects to receive from the sales of such data.  However, an individual survey generally will not carry a net book value greater than a 4-year, straight-line amortized value. The carrying value of surveys is reviewed for impairment annually as well as when an event or change in circumstance indicates an impairment may have occurred.  Adjustments to the carrying value are recorded when it is determined that estimated future revenues, which involve significant judgment on the part of Schlumberger, would not be sufficient to recover the carrying value of the surveys.  Significant adverse changes in Schlumberger’s estimated future cash flows could result in impairment charges in a future period.  For purposes of performing the annual impairment test of the multiclient library, surveys are primarily analyzed for impairment on a survey-by-survey basis. 29 Pension and Postretirement Benefits Schlumberger’s pension and postretirement benefit obligations are described in detail in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements .  The obligations and related costs are calculated using actuarial concepts, which include critical assumptions related to the discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets and medical cost trend rates.  These assumptions are important elements of expense and/or liability measurement and are updated on an annual basis, or upon the occurrence of significant events. The discount rate that Schlumberger uses reflects the prevailing market rate of a portfolio of high-quality debt instruments with maturities matching the expected timing of payment of the related benefit obligations.  The following summarizes the discount rates utilized by Schlumberger for its various pension and postretirement benefit plans: The expected rate of return for Schlumberger’s retirement benefit plans represents the average rate of return expected to be earned on plan assets over the period that benefits included in the benefit obligation are expected to be paid, with consideration given to the distribution of investments by asset class and historical rates of return for each individual asset class.  The weighted average expected rate of return on plan assets for the United States pension plans was 6.60% in both 2020 and 2019.  The weighted average expected rate of return on plan assets for the international pension plans was 6.71% in 2020 and 7.22% in 2019.  A lower expected rate of return would increase pension expense. Schlumberger’s medical cost trend rate assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook and an assessment of likely long-term trends.  The overall medical cost trend rate assumption utilized to determine the 2020 postretirement medical expense and the postretirement medical liability at December 31, 2020 was 7.25%, graded to 4.5% over the next eleven years. The following illustrates the sensitivity to changes in certain assumptions, holding all other assumptions constant, for Schlumberger’s United States and international pension plans: The following illustrates the sensitivity to changes in certain assumptions, holding all other assumptions constant, for Schlumberger’s United States postretirement medical plans: 30