********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The following discussion of risk factors known to us contains important information for the understanding of our “forward-looking statements,” which are discussed immediately following Item 7A. of this Form 10-K and elsewhere. These risk factors should also be read in conjunction with Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K. Please carefully consider the risks described below, which discuss the material factors that make an investment in our securities speculative or risky, other material included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, and other reports and materials that we file with the SEC. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial could also materially adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Business and Operational Risks Demand for our products and services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by our customers, which can change based on many factors, including fluctuations in oil and gas prices. Oil and gas industry downturns have resulted in reduced demand for oilfield products and services and lower expenditures by our customers, which has in the past had, and may in the future have, a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Demand for our products and services depends substantially on expenditures by our customers for the exploration, development and production of oil and gas reserves. These expenditures are generally dependent on our customers’ views of future demand for oil and gas and future oil and gas prices, as well as our customers’ ability to access capital. In addition, the transition of the global energy sector from a primarily fossil fuel-based system to a diverse system which includes renewable energy sources could affect our customers’ levels of expenditures. Actual and anticipated declines in oil and gas prices have in the past resulted in, and may in the future result in, lower capital expenditures, project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in payment of, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us. These effects have had, and may in the future have, a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Historically, oil and gas prices have experienced significant volatility and can be affected by a variety of factors, including: • changes in the supply of and demand for hydrocarbons, which are affected by general economic and business conditions; • the costs of exploring for, producing, and delivering oil and gas; • the ability or willingness of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and the expanded alliance known as OPEC+ to set and maintain production levels for oil; • the level of oil and gas exploration and production activity; • the level of excess production capacity; • the level of refining and storage capacity; • the level of oil and gas inventories; • access to potential resources; • political and economic uncertainty and geopolitical unrest; • governmental laws, policies, regulations, subsidies, and other actions, including initiatives to promote the use of renewable energy sources; • speculation as to the future price of oil and the speculative trading of oil and gas futures contracts; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; and • extreme weather conditions, natural disasters, and public health or similar issues, such as pandemics and epidemics. The oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for our products and services and downward pressure on the prices that we are able to charge. Sustained market uncertainty can also result in lower demand and pricing for our products and services. A significant industry downturn, sustained market uncertainty, or increased availability of economical alternative energy sources could result in a reduction in demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Disruptions in the political, regulatory, economic, and social environments of the countries in which we operate could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are a global technology company, and our non-US operations accounted for approximately 84% of our consolidated revenue in 2023 and 2022, and 85% in 2021. Geopolitical instability and unforeseen changes in any of the markets in which we operate could result in business disruptions or operational challenges that may adversely affect the demand for our products and services, or our reputation, our financial condition, and our results of operations and cash flows. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • uncertain or volatile political, social, and economic conditions; • exposure to expropriation, nationalization, deprivation or confiscation of our assets or the assets of our customers, or other   governmental actions; 10 • social unrest, acts of terrorism, war, or other armed conflict; • confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; • theft of, or lack of sufficient legal protection for, proprietary technology and other intellectual property; • deprivation of contract rights; • trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the European Union, the United States, the United Kingdom, China, or other regions or countries that could restrict or curtail our ability to operate in certain markets; • public health crises; • unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements, including changes in interpretation or enforcement of existing laws; • restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital; • currency exchange controls; • inflation; and • currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations. As an example of a risk resulting from our global operations, in March 2022 we decided to immediately suspend new investment and technology deployment to our Russia operations. In July 2023, we announced that we were halting shipments of products into Russia from all our facilities worldwide in response to the continued expansion of international sanctions. Russia represented approximately 5% of our worldwide revenue during 2023. The carrying value of our net assets in Russia was approximately $0.6 billion as of December 31, 2023. This consisted of $0.2 billion of receivables, $0.3 billion of fixed assets, $0.4 billion of other assets, and $0.3 billion of current liabilities. We continue to actively monitor the dynamic situation in Ukraine and applicable laws, sanctions and trade control restrictions resulting from the conflict. The extent to which our operations, financial results and cash flows may be affected by the ongoing conflict in Ukraine will depend on various factors, including the extent and duration of the conflict; the effects of the conflict on regional and global economic and geopolitical conditions; the effect of further laws, sanctions and trade control restrictions on our business, the global economy and global supply chains; and the impact of fluctuations in the exchange rate of the ruble. Continuation or escalation of the conflict may also exacerbate this and other risk factors identified in this Form 10-K, including cybersecurity, regulatory, and reputational risks. Failure to effectively and timely address the energy transition could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and cash flows. Our long-term success depends on our ability to effectively address the energy transition, which will require adapting our technology portfolio to changing customer preferences and government requirements, developing solutions to decarbonize oil and gas operations, and scaling innovative low-carbon and carbon-neutral technologies. If the energy transition landscape changes faster than anticipated or in a manner that we do not anticipate, demand for our products and services could be adversely affected. Furthermore, if we fail or are perceived to not effectively implement an energy transition strategy, or if investors or financial institutions shift funding away from companies in fossil fuel-related industries, our access to capital or the market for our securities could be negatively impacted. Our operations are subject to cyber incidents that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our success depends in part on our ability to provide effective cyber security protection in connection with our digital technologies and services as well as our internal digital infrastructure. We operate information technology networks and systems for internal purposes that incorporate third-party software and technologies. We also connect to and exchange data with external networks that may be operated by our customers, suppliers, alliance partners, or other third parties. We provide digital technologies that allow us or our customers to remotely perform wellsite and field operations. We also develop software and other digital products and services that store, retrieve, manipulate, and manage our customers’ information and data, external data, personal data, and our own data. Our digital technologies and services, as well as third-party products, services and technologies that we rely on (including emerging technologies, such as artificial intelligence programs), are subject to the risk of cyberattacks and, given the nature of such attacks, some incidents can remain undetected for a period of time despite efforts to detect and respond to them in a timely manner. Cyberattacks are expected to accelerate on a global basis in both frequency and magnitude as threat actors are becoming increasingly sophisticated in using techniques and tools (including artificial intelligence) that circumvent controls, evade detection and even remove forensic evidence of the infiltration. There can be no assurance that the systems we have designed to prevent or limit the effects of cyber incidents or attacks will be sufficient to prevent or detect material consequences arising from such incidents or attacks, or to avoid a material adverse impact on our systems after such incidents or attacks do occur. We have experienced and will continue to experience varying degrees of cyber incidents in the normal conduct of our business, including attacks resulting from social engineering such as phishing and ransomware infections. Even if we successfully defend our own digital technologies and services, we also rely on providers of third-party products, services, and networks, with whom we may share data and services, and who may be unable to effectively defend their digital technologies and services against attack. Unauthorized access to or modification of, or actions disabling our ability to obtain authorized access to, our customers’ data, other external data, personal data, or our own data, as a result of a cyber incident, attack or exploitation of a security vulnerability, or loss of control of our clients’ operations could result in significant damage to our reputation or disruption of the services we provide to our customers or of our customers’ businesses. In addition, allegations, reports, or concerns regarding vulnerabilities affecting our digital products or services could damage our reputation. This could lead to fewer customers using our digital products and services, which 11 could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and future prospects. In addition, if our systems or third-party products, services, and network systems for protecting against cybersecurity risks prove to be insufficient, we could be adversely affected by, among other things, loss of or damage to our intellectual property, proprietary or confidential information; loss of customer, supplier, or our employee data; breach of personal data; interruption of our business operations; disruption of our customers’ businesses; increased legal and regulatory exposure, including fines and remediation costs; and increased costs required to prevent, respond to, or mitigate cybersecurity attacks. These risks could harm our reputation and our relationships with our employees, our customers, our suppliers, our alliance partners and other third parties, and may result in claims against us. We operate in a highly competitive environment. If we are unable to maintain technology leadership, this could adversely affect any competitive advantage we hold. The energy industry is highly competitive and rapidly evolving. Our business may be adversely affected if we fail to continue developing and producing innovative technologies in response to changes in the market, including customer and government requirements, or if we fail to deliver such technologies to our customers in a timely and cost-competitive manner. If we are unable to maintain technology leadership in our industry, our ability to maintain market share, defend, maintain, or increase prices for our products and services, and negotiate acceptable contract terms with our customers could be adversely affected. Furthermore, competing or new technologies may accelerate the obsolescence of our products or services and reduce the value of our intellectual property. Limitations on our ability to obtain, maintain, protect, or enforce our intellectual property rights, including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage we hold. There can be no assurance that the steps we take to obtain, maintain, protect, and enforce our intellectual property rights will be adequate. Some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide them, have been granted patent protection, have patent applications pending, or are trade secrets. Our business may be adversely affected when our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications are denied, or our trade secrets are not adequately protected. Patent protection on some types of technology, such as software or machine learning processes, may not be available in certain countries in which we operate. Our competitors may also be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets. Third parties may claim that we have infringed upon or otherwise violated their intellectual property rights. The tools, techniques, methodologies, programs, and components we use to provide our services and products may infringe upon or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others or be challenged on that basis. Regardless of the merits, any such claims generally result in significant legal and other costs, including reputational harm, and may distract management from running our business. Resolving such claims could increase our costs, including through royalty payments to acquire licenses, if available, from third parties and through the development of replacement technologies. If a license to resolve a claim were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product. Legal and Regulatory Risks Our operations require us to comply with numerous laws and regulations, violations of which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our operations are subject to international, regional, national, and local laws and regulations in every place where we operate, relating to matters such as environmental protection, health and safety, labor and employment, human rights, import/export controls, currency exchange, bribery and corruption, data privacy and cybersecurity, intellectual property, immigration, and taxation. These laws and regulations are complex, frequently change, have tended to become more stringent over time, and could conflict among one another. In the event the scope of these laws and regulations expands in the future, the incremental cost of compliance could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Our operations are subject to anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act, and other similar laws. We are also subject to trade control regulations and trade sanctions laws that restrict the movement of certain goods to, and certain operations in, various countries or with certain persons. Our ability to transfer people, products, and data among certain countries is subject to maintaining required licenses and complying with these laws and regulations. The internal controls, policies and procedures, and employee training and compliance programs we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors, or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies or from material violations of applicable laws and regulations. Any determination that we have violated or are responsible for violations of applicable laws, including securities, environmental, trade control, trade sanctions, or anti-corruption laws, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Violations of international and US laws and regulations or the loss of any required licenses may result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies, or restrictions on business conduct, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, and financial condition. In addition, any major violations could have a significant effect on our reputation and consequently on our ability to win future business and maintain existing customer and supplier relationships. Existing or future laws, regulations, court orders or other public- or private-sector initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions or relating to climate change may reduce demand for our products and services. 12 Continuing political and social attention to the issue of climate change has resulted in both existing and proposed international agreements and national, regional, and local legislation and regulatory measures to limit GHG emissions and mitigate the effects of climate change. The implementation of these agreements, including the Paris Agreement, the Europe Climate Law, and other existing or future regulatory mandates, may adversely affect the demand for our products and services, impose taxes on us or our customers, require us or our customers to reduce GHG emissions from our technologies or operations, or accelerate the obsolescence of our products or services. In addition, increasing attention to the risks of climate change has resulted in an increased possibility of litigation or investigations brought by public and private entities against oil and gas companies in connection with their GHG emissions. As a result, we or our customers may become subject to court orders compelling a reduction of GHG emissions or requiring mitigation of the effects of climate change. There is also increased focus by our customers, investors and other stakeholders on climate change, sustainability, and energy transition matters. Actions to address these concerns or negative perceptions of our industry or fossil fuel products and their relationship to the environment have led to initiatives to conserve energy and promote the use of alternative energy sources, which may reduce the demand for and production of oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate, and thus reduce future demand for our products and services. In addition, initiatives by investors and financial institutions to limit funding to companies in fossil fuel-related industries may adversely affect our liquidity or access to capital. Any of these initiatives may, in turn, adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities arising as a result of environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We are subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including those governing air and GHG emissions, water discharges and waste management, as well as the importation and use of hazardous materials, radioactive materials, chemicals, and explosives. The technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, stringent, and expensive to implement. These laws sometimes provide for “strict liability” for remediation costs, damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. Strict liability can render us liable for damages without regard to our degree of care or fault. Some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances, and, as a result, we could be liable for the actions of others. We use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. In addition, many of our current and former properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes. Accordingly, we could become subject to material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of potentially contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as a result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. In addition, stricter enforcement or changing interpretations of existing laws and regulations, the enactment of new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination, or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, and financial condition. We could be subject to substantial liability claims, including as a result of well incidents, which could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The technical complexities of our operations expose us to a wide range of significant health, safety, and environmental risks. Our operations involve the use of radioactive materials, chemicals, explosives and other equipment and services that are deployed in challenging exploration, development, and production environments. Accidents or acts of malfeasance involving these services or equipment, or a failure of a product (including as a result of a cyberattack), could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, equipment or the environment, or suspension of operations, which could materially adversely affect us. Any well incidents, including blowouts at a well site or any loss of containment or well control, may expose us to additional liabilities, which could be material. Generally, we rely on contractual indemnities, releases, and limitations on liability with our customers and insurance to protect us from potential liability related to such events. However, our insurance may not protect us against liability for certain kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption. Moreover, we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. Any damages caused by our services or products that are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits or subject to substantial deductibles, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. General Risk Factors Our aspirations, goals, and initiatives related to sustainability and emissions reduction, and our public statements and disclosures regarding them, expose us to numerous risks. We have developed, and will continue to develop and set, goals, targets, and other objectives related to sustainability matters, including our net-zero emissions target and our energy transition strategy. Statements related to these goals, targets, and objectives reflect our current plans and aspirations and do not constitute a guarantee that they will be achieved. Our efforts to research, establish, accomplish, and accurately report on these goals, targets, and objectives expose us to numerous operational, reputational, financial, legal, and other risks. Our ability to achieve any stated goal, target, or objective, including with respect to emissions reduction, is subject to numerous factors and conditions, some of which are outside of our contro l. Our targets are based on empirical data and estimates that reflect our understanding of current best practices for measuring or estimating emissions or other metrics, but we anticipate that future innovations in both measurement technologies and estimation methodologies could cause us to revise our baseline as well as re-calculate progress toward our targets. 13 Our business faces increased scrutiny from certain investors and other stakeholders related to our sustainability activities, including the goals, targets, and objectives that we announce, and our methodologies and timelines for pursuing them. If our sustainability practices do not meet investor or other stakeholder expectations and standards, including any third-party ratings used by stakeholders, which continue to evolve, our reputation, our ability to attract or retain employees, our ability to access capital, and our attractiveness as an investment or business partner could be negatively affected. Similarly, our failure or perceived failure to pursue or fulfill our sustainability-focused goals, targets, and objectives, to comply with ethical, environmental, or other standards, regulations, or expectations, or to satisfy various reporting standards with respect to these matters, within the timelines we announce, or at all, could adversely affect our business or reputation, as well as expose us to government enforcement actions and private litigation. Failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could impede our operations. Our future success depends on our ability to recruit, train, and retain qualified personnel. We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. Competition for the personnel necessary for our businesses intensifies as activity increases, technology evolves and customer demands change. In periods of high utilization, it is often more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. This could increase our costs or have other material adverse effects on our operations. Severe weather events, including extreme weather conditions associated with climate change, have in the past and may in the future adversely affect our operations and financial results. Our business has been, and in the future will be, affected by severe weather events in areas where we operate, which could materially affect our operations and financial results. Extreme weather conditions such as hurricanes, flooding, landslides, and heat waves have in the past resulted in, and may in the future result in, the evacuation of personnel, stoppage of services and activity disruptions at our facilities, in our supply chain, or at well-sites, or result in disruptions to our customers’ operations. Particularly severe weather events affecting platforms or structures may result in a suspension of activities. Climate change may impact the frequency and/or intensity of such events. In addition, acute or chronic physical impacts of climate change, such as sea level rise, coastal storm surge, inland flooding from intense rainfall, and hurricane-strength winds may damage our facilities. Any such extreme weather events may result in increased operating costs or decreases in revenue. Public health emergencies, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, and resulting adverse economic conditions have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Public health emergencies, including the COVID-19 pandemic, have caused, and could again cause, a significant reduction in global economic activity, significantly weakening demand for oil and gas, and in turn, demand for our products and services. Other effects of  public health emergencies have included, and may continue to include, significant volatility and disruption of the global financial markets; adverse revenue and net income effects; disruptions to our operations, including suspension or deferral of drilling activities; customer shutdowns of oil and gas exploration and production; downward revisions to customer budgets; limitations on access to sources of liquidity; supply chain disruptions; limitations on access to raw materials; employee impacts from illness; and local and regional closures or lockdowns, including temporary closures of our facilities and the facilities of our customers and suppliers. The extent to which our operating and financial results will be and may continue to be affected by public health emergencies will depend on various factors beyond our control, such as the continued severity and duration of the public health emergencies, including any sustained geographic resurgence; the emergence of new variants and strains of a contagious disease or virus; and the success of actions to contain or mitigate the effects of the public health emergency. A public health emergency, and volatile regional and global economic conditions stemming from a public health emergency, could also aggravate our other risk factors described in this Form 10-K.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, statements relating to our plans, strategies, objectives, expectations, intentions, and resources. Such forward-looking statements should be read in conjunction with our disclosures under “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Form 10-K. This section of the Form 10-K generally discusses 2023 and 2022 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2023 and 2022.  Discussions of 2021 items and year-to-year comparison between 2022 and 2021 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of SLB’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022. 2023 Executive Overview 2023 was a remarkable year marked by widespread revenue growth, margin expansion, and exceptional cash flow. Year on year, revenue grew 18%, pretax segment operating margin increased 185 basis points (“bps”) to 20% and we delivered $6.6 billion of cash flow from operations and $4.0 billion of free cash flow—allowing us to reduce net debt by $1.4 billion and return $2.0 billion to shareholders this year through dividends and stock repurchases. Our strong full-year performance was fueled by substantial international growth, with approximately 90% of our international GeoUnits posting year-on-year increases, complemented by sustained performance in North America. International revenue grew 20% year on year by more than $4 billion. Notably, we achieved our highest-ever revenue in the Middle East, led by impressive growth in Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, and Egypt & East Mediterranean GeoUnits. In the offshore basins, we benefited from long-cycle developments, capacity expansions, and exploration and appraisal activities with remarkable growth in Brazil and Angola, and solid increases in the US Gulf of Mexico, Guyana, and Norway. In North America, while activity moderated as expected in the second half of the year, revenue increased 12% year on year, outpacing the rig count. This outperformance was driven by our technology-leveraged portfolio in both US land and the US Gulf of Mexico. On a divisional basis, our Core business—comprising Reservoir Performance, Well Construction, and Production Systems—accelerated, growing revenue 20% year on year and expanding pretax segment operating margin 277 bps. Digital & Integration revenue increased 4% year on year. This was led by digital, which continued strong growth momentum, delivering more than $2 billion in revenue. Our success in digital was driven by further adoption of Delfi technology and customers embracing our connected and autonomous drilling, data, and AI solutions. We also saw continued adoption of our Transition Technologies portfolio as customers look to enhance efficiency and reduce emissions. The imperative to operate more sustainably is translating into tangible investments by our customers, resulting in the portfolio generating more than $1 billion of revenue. As global energy demand continues to increase, international production is expected to play a key role in meeting supply through the end of the decade. Notably, we anticipate record investment levels in the Middle East extending beyond 2025, with significant expansion in Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Iraq, and Kuwait. Offshore remains another distinct attribute of this durable growth cycle, serving as an important source for production growth and capacity additions, and we expect strong activity to continue in Brazil, West Africa, the Eastern Mediterranean, the Middle East, and Southeast Asia. In the international environment, despite elevated geopolitical tensions in various regions, we do not anticipate a significant impact on the sector's overall activity, absent any escalation. Furthermore, we expect the long-cycle investments across the Middle East, global offshore, and gas resource plays to be largely decoupled from short-term commodity price fluctuations. In 2024, SLB expects to experience another year of strong growth driven by the international markets. Benefiting from these market dynamics, we foresee further growth led by Production Systems, strengthened by the additional subsea opportunities from our OneSubsea joint venture. Sustained momentum is expected in Reservoir Performance, accompanied by increased activity in Well Construction. Additionally, we expect continued customer adoption of our Digital business, particularly in our new technology platforms. Our performance and returns-focused strategy, combined with our differentiated market positioning and digital capabilities, will drive profitable growth and further margin expansion, setting a strong foundation for long-term outperformance. With confidence in the strength and longevity of the cycle and visibility into sustained strong cash flows, in January 2024, our Board of Directors approved a 10% increase to our quarterly dividend. Additionally, we plan to increase share repurchases in 2024, visibly enhancing returns to shareholders for the full year. 18 Fourth Quarter 2023 Results (1) Comprised principally of certain corporate expenses not allocated to the segments, stock-based compensation costs, amortization expense associated with certain intangible assets, certain centrally managed initiatives, and other nonoperating items. (2) Excludes interest income included in the segments’ income (fourth quarter 2023: $11 million; third quarter 2023: $2 million). (3) Excludes interest expense included in the segments’ income (fourth quarter 2023: $4 million; third quarter 2023: $3 million). (4) Charges and credits are described in detail in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements . Fourth-quarter revenue of $9.0 billion increased 8% sequentially with the acquired Aker subsea business accounting for approximately 70% of the growth, while the legacy portfolio continued its growth trajectory in the international markets. International revenue of $7.3 billion grew 10% sequentially, driven by Europe & Africa and the Middle East & Asia. Europe & Africa increased 16% sequentially driven by the acquired Aker subsea business, which accounted for most of the sequential revenue growth, primarily in Scandinavia. Revenue in the Middle East & Asia increased 11% sequentially driven by higher drilling, intervention, stimulation, and evaluation activity, both on land and offshore. North America revenue of $1.6 billion was flat sequentially as reduced drilling activity in US land and Canada was offset by higher offshore revenue in the US Gulf of Mexico. Compared to the same quarter last year, fourth-quarter 2023 international revenue outpaced North America, growing 18%, while North America was relatively flat. Excluding the acquired Aker subsea business, international revenue grew 10% year on year, marking the 10th consecutive quarter of double-digit growth. Fourth-quarter 2023 pretax segment operating income margin of 21% increased year on year, representing the 12th consecutive quarter of growth. Digital & Integration Digital & Integration revenue of $1.0 billion increased 7% sequentially due to increased digital revenue across all areas led by the Middle East & Asia and Europe & Africa. Digital & Integration pretax operating margin of 34% expanded 197 bps sequentially due to improved profitability in digital. Reservoir Performance Reservoir Performance revenue of $1.7 billion grew 3% sequentially primarily due to increased activity internationally, mainly in the Middle East and Africa. Reservoir Performance pretax operating margin of 21% expanded 88 bps sequentially and represents the Division’s highest level of pretax operating margin in this cycle. This increase was primarily driven by higher activity, pricing, and improved operating leverage. Well Construction Well Construction revenue of $3.4 billion was flat sequentially with international growth being offset by a decline in North America revenue. International revenue increased 2% driven primarily by strong growth in the Middle East & Asia and Africa. North America revenue decreased 7% on a lower US land rig count. Well Construction pretax operating margin of 22% increased 35 bps sequentially primarily driven by improved profitability from the increased activity in the Middle East & Asia and Africa. 19 Production Systems Production Systems revenue of $2.94 billion increased 24% sequentially. The acquired Aker subsea business accounted for most of the growth. Excluding the effects of this acquisition, revenue grew 4% sequentially due to strong international sales. Production Systems pretax operating margin expanded 153 bps sequentially to 15%, its highest level in this cycle. The improvement was driven primarily by higher sales of midstream, artificial lift, and subsea production systems. Full-Year 2023 Results (1) Comprised principally of certain corporate expenses not allocated to the segments, stock-based compensation costs, amortization expense associated with certain intangible assets, certain centrally managed initiatives, and other nonoperating items. (2) Excludes interest income included in the segments’ income (2023: $13 million; 2022: $72 million). (3) Excludes interest expense included in the segments’ income (2023: $14 million; 2022: $13 million) . (4) Charges and credits are described in detail in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements . Full-year 2023 revenue of $33.1 billion increased 18% year on year led by Well Construction and Production Systems. On a geographic basis, year-on-year revenue growth was broad-based with North America revenue increasing 12% due to strong land and offshore drilling and higher sales of production systems, while international revenue grew 20%. International growth was widespread across all areas, led by the Middle East & Asia, which grew 21% due to higher drilling and intervention activity. Europe & Africa grew 18% primarily from higher sales of production systems in Europe and increased activity in offshore Africa, while Latin America revenue increased 17% due to robust drilling activity and higher sales of production systems. Full-year 2023 pretax segment operating margin of 20% expanded by 185 bps as compared to 2022 driven by higher activity, improved pricing, and a more favorable activity mix. Digital & Integration Digital & Integration revenue of $3.9 billion increased 4% year on year, as strong growth in digital sales was largely offset by lower APS revenue and decreased exploration data licensing sales. The APS revenue decline resulted primarily from a temporary production interruption in the projects in Ecuador during the first quarter of 2023 due to a pipeline disruption and lower commodity prices that impacted the project in Canada. The lower exploration data licensing sales were driven by the absence of the $95 million of transfer fees recorded in the second quarter of 2022. Digital & Integration pretax operating margin contracted 397 bps to 32% primarily due to the absence of the $95 million of exploration data transfer fees and reduced profitability from APS projects. Reservoir Performance Reservoir Performance revenue of $6.6 billion increased 18% year on year due primarily to increased activity internationally. Reservoir Performance pretax operating margin expanded 338 bps to 19% primarily due to higher activity levels and improved pricing. Well Construction Well Construction revenue of $13.5 billion increased 18% year on year with double-digit growth across all areas. North America grew 17% while international revenue increased 19%. This growth was driven by drilling fluids and measurements—both on higher land and offshore activity—along with improved pricing. 20 Well Construction pretax operating margin expanded 243 bps to 22% with profitability improving across all geographic areas driven by the higher activity and improved pricing. Production Systems Production Systems revenue of $9.8 billion increased 25% driven by strong growth across all areas led by Latin America and the Middle East & Asia, as well as the impact of the Aker subsea business, which was acquired on October 2, 2023. Production Systems pretax operating margin expanded 315 bps to 13% mainly driven by higher subsea production system, artificial lift, and surface production system sales, as well as improved pricing, and the easing of supply chain constraints. Interest & Other Income, Net Interest & other income, net consisted of the following: On December 31, 2020, SLB contributed its onshore hydraulic fracturing business in the United States and Canada, including its pressure pumping, pumpdown perforating and Permian frac sand business, to Liberty Energy Inc. (“Liberty”) in exchange for an equity interest in Liberty. During 2023, SLB sold all of its remaining approximately 9 million shares of Liberty and recognized a gain of $36 million . During 2022, SLB sold 47.8 million of its shares of Liberty and recognized a gain of $325 million. Although SLB's functional currency in Argentina is the US dollar, a portion of its transactions are denominated in pesos. SLB uses Argentina’s official exchange rate to remeasure its Argentine peso-denominated net assets into US dollars. The Central Bank of Argentina maintains certain currency controls that limit SLB’s ability to access US dollars in Argentina and remit cash from its Argentine operations. A legal indirect foreign exchange mechanism exists in the form of capital market transactions known as Blue Chip Swaps, which effectively results in a parallel US dollar exchange rate. This parallel rate, which cannot be used as the basis to remeasure SLB’s net monetary assets in US dollars under US GAAP, was approximately 20% higher than Argentina’s official exchange rate at December 31, 2023 and 93% higher at December 31, 2022. During the fourth quarter of 2023, Argentina devalued its peso relative to the US dollar by approximately 55%. As a result, SLB recorded a $90 million devaluation charge, of which $61 million is classified in Cost of services in the C onsolidated Statement of Income , with the remaining $29 million classified in Cost of sales . SLB’s peso-denominated net assets in Argentina were approximately $75 million at December 31, 2023 ($40 million at December 31, 2022 and $270 million at September 30, 2022), primarily consisting of cash. Argentina represented less than 5% of SLB’s consolidated revenue in each of 2023 and 2022. SLB accounts for its investment in the Arabian Drilling Company (“ADC”), an onshore and offshore gas and oil rig drilling company in Saudi Arabia, under the equity method. During the fourth quarter of 2022, ADC completed an initial public offering (“IPO”). In connection with the IPO, SLB sold a portion of its interest in a secondary offering that resulted in SLB receiving net proceeds of $223 million. As a result of these transactions, SLB’s ownership interest in ADC decreased from 49% to approximately 34%. SLB recognized a gain of $107 million, representing the gain on the sale of a portion of its interest as well as the effect of the ownership dilution of its equity investment due to the IPO. During 2022, SLB sold certain real estate and recognized a gain of $43 million. During 2022, SLB repurchased $395 million of its 3.75% Senior Notes due 2024 and $409 million of its 4.00% Senior Notes due 2025 for $790 million, resulting in a gain of $11 million after considering the write-off of the related deferred financing fees and other costs. Interest Expense Interest expense of $503 million in 2023 increased $13 million compared to 2022. 21 Other Research & engineering and General & administrative expenses, as a percentage of Revenue , were as follows: Income Taxes The SLB effective tax rate is sensitive to the geographic mix of earnings. When the percentage of pretax earnings generated outside of North America increases, the SLB effective tax rate generally decreases. Conversely, when the percentage of pretax earnings generated outside of North America decreases, the SLB effective tax rate generally increases. The effective tax rate was 19% in 2023 as compared to 18% in 2022.  The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the charges and credits described in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements . These charges and credits reduced the effective tax rate in 2022 by approximately one percentage point. Charges and Credits SLB recorded charges and credits during 2023 and 2022. These charges and credits, which are summarized below, are more fully described in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements . The following is a summary of the 2023 charges and credits: The following is a summary of the 2022 charges and credits: 22 Liquidity and Capital Resources Details of the components of liquidity as well as changes in liquidity follow: (1) “ Net debt” represents gross debt less cash and short-term investments. Management believes that Net debt provides useful information to investors and management regarding the level of SLB’s indebtedness by reflecting cash and investments that could be used to repay debt. Net debt is a non-GAAP financial measure that should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, total debt. (2) Includes depreciation of fixed assets and amortization of intangible assets, exploration data costs and APS investments. (3) “Free cash flow” represents cash flow from operations less capital expenditures, APS investments and exploration data costs capitalized. Management believes that free cash flow is an important liquidity measure for the company and that it is useful to investors and management as a measure of our ability to generate cash. Once business needs and obligations are met, this cash can be used to reinvest in the company for future growth or to return to shareholders through dividend payments or share repurchases. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure that should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, cash flow from operations. Key liquidity events during 2023 and 2022 included: • Cash flow from operations of $6.6 billion in 2023 increased approximately $2.9 billion as compared to 2022. This increase was primarily due to a $1.4 billion increase in net income adjusted for the previously mentioned charges and credits and depreciation and amortization expense combined with the effect of working capital only consuming $0.2 billion of liquidity in 2023 as compared to $1.7 billion in 2022. This $1.5 billion improvement in working capital was largely attributable to strong collections of accounts receivable and a smaller increase in inventory in 2023 as compared to 2022. Inventory increased in 2022 as a result of the 23 significant activity growth that SLB was expecting in 2023. Additionally, SLB received a US federal tax refund of $85 million during the fourth quarter of 2023 relating to prior years. • In January 2023, SLB announced a 43% increase to its quarterly cash dividend from $0.175 per share of outstanding common stock to $0.25 per share, beginning with the dividend payable in April 2023. In April 2022, SLB announced a 40% increase to its quarterly cash dividend from $0.125 per share of outstanding common stock to $0.175 per share, beginning with the dividend payable in July 2022. Dividends paid during 2023 and 2022 were $1.3 billion and $0.8 billion, respectively. In January 2024, SLB announced a 10% increase to its quarterly cash dividend from $0.25 per share of outstanding common stock to $0.275 per share, beginning with the dividend payable in April 2024. • As of December 31, 2023, SLB had cumulatively repurchased $1.7 billion of its common stock under its $10 billion share repurchase program. SLB repurchased approximately 13.3 million shares of its common stock under this program during 2023, for a total purchase price of $694 million. SLB did not repurchase any of its common stock during 2022. • Capital investments (consisting of capital expenditures, APS investments, and exploration data capitalized) were $2.6 billion in 2023 and $2.3 billion in 2022. Capital investments during 2024 are expected to be approximately $2.6 billion. • During the first quarter of 2023, SLB sold all of its remaining approximately 9 million shares of Liberty and received net proceeds of $137 million. As a result, SLB recognized a gain of $36 million. During 2022, SLB sold 47.8 million of its shares of Liberty and received proceeds of $732 million. • During the second quarter of 2023, SLB issued $500 million of 4.50% Senior Notes due 2028 and $500 million of 4.85% Senior Notes due 2033. • During the fourth quarter of 2023, SLB repaid its $1.5 billion of 3.65% Senior Notes that were outstanding. • During the second quarter of 2022, SLB sold certain real estate and received proceeds of $120 million. • During the fourth quarter of 2022, SLB repurchased $395 million of its 3.75% Senior Notes due 2024 and $409 million of its 4.00% Senior Notes due 2025 for $790 million. • During the fourth quarter of 2022, SLB repaid $795 million of Senior Notes that matured. • During the fourth quarter of 2022, SLB sold a portion of its equity interest in ADC in a secondary offering that resulted in SLB receiving net proceeds of $223 million. As of December 31, 2023, SLB had $3.99 billion of cash and short-term investments and committed credit facility agreements with commercial banks aggregating $5.0 billion, all of which was available and unused. SLB believes these amounts, along with cash generated by ongoing operations, will be sufficient to meet future business requirements for the next 12 months and beyond. 24 The following table reflects the carrying amounts of SLB’s debt at December 31, 2023 by year of maturity: Interest payments on fixed rate debt obligations by year are as follows: See Note 14, Leases of the Consolidated Financial Statements for details regarding SLB’s lease obligations. SLB has outstanding letters of credit/guarantees that relate to business performance bonds, customs/excise tax commitments, facility lease/rental obligations, etc. These were entered into in the ordinary course of business and are customary practices in the various countries where SLB operates. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires SLB to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses. The following accounting policies involve “critical accounting estimates” because they are particularly dependent on estimates and assumptions made by SLB about matters that are inherently uncertain. SLB bases its estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts SLB maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts in order to record accounts receivable at their net realizable value. Judgment is involved in recording and making adjustments to this reserve. Allowances have been recorded for receivables believed to be uncollectible, including amounts for the resolution of potential credit and other collection issues such as disputed invoices. Adjustments to the allowance 25 may be required in future periods depending on how such potential issues are resolved, or if the financial condition of SLB’s customers were to deteriorate resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments. As a large multinational company with a long history of operating in a cyclical industry, SLB has extensive experience in working with its customers during difficult times to manage its accounts receivable. During weak economic environments or when there is an extended period of weakness in oil and gas prices, SLB typically experiences delays in the payment of its receivables. However, except for a $469 million accounts receivable write-off during 2017 as a result of the political and economic conditions in Venezuela, SLB has not historically had material write-offs due to uncollectible accounts receivable. SLB has a global footprint in more than 100 countries. As of December 31, 2023, three of those countries individually accounted for greater than 5% of SLB’s net accounts receivable balance, of which only two (the United States and Mexico) accounted for greater than 10% of such receivables. As of December 31, 2023, Mexico and the United States represented 13% and 11% respectively, of SLB’s net accounts receivable balance. SLB’s receivables from its primary customer in Mexico are not in dispute and SLB has not historically had any material write-offs due to uncollectible accounts receivable relating to this customer. Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Long-Lived Assets SLB records the excess of purchase price over the fair value of the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed as goodwill. The goodwill relating to each of SLB’s reporting units is tested for impairment annually as well as when an event, or change in circumstances, indicates an impairment may have occurred. Under generally accepted accounting principles, SLB has the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of one or more of its reporting units is greater than its carrying amount. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, SLB determines it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is greater than its carrying amount, there is no need to perform any further testing. However, if SLB concludes otherwise, then it is required to perform a quantitative impairment test by calculating the fair value of the reporting unit and comparing the fair value with the carrying amount of the reporting unit. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded based on that difference. SLB has the option to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in any period and proceed directly to performing the quantitative goodwill impairment test. SLB elected to perform the qualitative assessment described above for purposes of its annual goodwill impairment test in 2023. Based on this assessment, SLB concluded it was more likely than not that the fair value of each of its reporting units was significantly greater than its carrying amount. Accordingly, no further testing was required. Long-lived assets, including fixed assets, intangible assets, and investments in APS projects, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. In reviewing for impairment, the carrying value of such assets is compared to the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected from the use of the assets and their eventual disposition. If such cash flows are not sufficient to support the asset’s recorded value, an impairment charge is recognized to reduce the carrying value of the long-lived asset to its estimated fair value. The determination of future cash flows as well as the estimated fair value of long-lived assets involves significant estimates on the part of management. If there is a material change in economic conditions or other circumstances influencing the estimate of future cash flows or fair value, SLB could be required to recognize impairment charges in the future. Income Taxes SLB conducts business in more than 100 tax jurisdictions, a number of which have tax laws that are not fully defined and are evolving. SLB’s tax filings are subject to regular audits by the tax authorities. These audits may result in assessments for additional taxes that are resolved with the authorities or, potentially, through the courts. SLB recognizes the impact of a tax position in its financial statements if that position is more likely than not of being sustained on audit, based on the technical merits of the position. Tax liabilities are recorded based on estimates of additional taxes that will be due upon the conclusion of these audits. Estimates of these tax liabilities are judgmental and are made based upon prior experience, and are updated in light of changes in facts and circumstances. However, due to the uncertain and complex application of tax regulations, the ultimate resolution of audits may result in liabilities that could be materially different from these estimates. In such an event, SLB will record additional tax expense or tax benefit in the period in which such resolution occurs. Revenue Recognition for Certain Long-term Construction-type Contracts SLB recognizes revenue for certain long-term construction-type contracts over time. These contracts involve significant design and engineering efforts in order to satisfy custom designs for customer-specific applications. Under this method, revenue is recognized as work progresses on each contract. Progress is measured by the ratio of actual costs incurred to date on the project in relation to total estimated project costs. Approximately 6% of SLB’s revenue in 2023, 5% in 2022 and 6% in 2021, was recognized under this method. The estimate of total project costs has a significant impact on both the amount of revenue recognized as well as the related profit on a project. Revenue and profits on contracts can also be significantly affected by change orders and claims. Profits are recognized based on the estimated project profit multiplied by the percentage complete. Due to the nature of these projects, adjustments to estimates of contract revenue and total contract costs are often required as work progresses. Any expected losses on a project are recorded in full in the period in which they become probable. 26 Pension and Postretirement Benefits SLB’s pension and postretirement benefit obligations are described in detail in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements . The obligations and related costs are calculated using actuarial concepts, which include critical assumptions related to the discount rate and the expected rate of return on plan assets. These assumptions are important elements of expense and/or liability measurement and are updated on an annual basis, or upon the occurrence of significant events. The discount rate that SLB uses reflects the prevailing market rate of a portfolio of high-quality debt instruments with maturities matching the expected timing of payment of the related benefit obligations. The following summarizes the discount rates utilized by SLB for its various pension and postretirement benefit plans: • The discount rate utilized to determine the liability for SLB’s United States pension plans and postretirement medical plan was 5.25% at December 31, 2023 and 5.50% at December 31, 2022. • The weighted-average discount rate utilized to determine the liability for SLB’s international pension plans was 5.14% at December 31, 2023 and 5.41% at December 31, 2022. • The discount rate utilized to determine expense for SLB’s United States pension plans and postretirement medical plan was 5.50% in 2023 and 3.00% in 2022. • The weighted-average discount rate utilized to determine expense for SLB’s international pension plans was 5.41% in 2023 and 2.83% in 2022. The expected rate of return for SLB’s retirement benefit plans represents the long-term average rate of return expected to be earned on plan assets based on expectations regarding future rates of return for the portfolio considering the asset allocation and related historical rate of return. The average expected rate of return on plan assets for the United States pension plans was 6.00% in 2023 and 4.40% in 2022. The weighted average expected rate of return on plan assets for the international pension plans was 6.00% in 2023 and 5.05% in 2022. A higher expected rate of return decreases pension expense. The following illustrates the sensitivity to changes in certain assumptions, holding all other assumptions constant, for SLB’s United States and international pension plans: The following illustrates the sensitivity to changes in certain assumptions, holding all other assumptions constant, for SLB’s United States postretirement medical plans: 27