********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

A description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below. Some of these risks are highlighted in the following discussion, and in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Legal Proceedings, and Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. The occurrence of any of these risks or additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and stock price. These risks and uncertainties could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Investors should carefully consider all relevant risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock. Industry Risks Uncertainty in the global economy, and its potential impact on the semiconductor and electronics industries, may negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Uncertainty caused by the recent challenging global economic conditions, including due to the effects of the recent rise in inflation and interest rates and the continuing COVID-19 pandemic, could lead some of our customers to postpone their decision-making, decrease their spending and/or delay their payments to us. Such caution by customers could, among other things, limit our ability to maintain or increase our sales or recognize revenue from committed contracts. Economic conditions could continue to deteriorate in the future, and, in particular, the semiconductor and electronics industries could fail to grow, including as a result of the effects of, among other things, rising inflation and interest rates, a sustained global semiconductor shortage, supply chain disruptions, the COVID-19 pandemic, and any disruption of international trade relationships such as tariffs, export licenses or other government trade restrictions. Furthermore, China’s stated policy of becoming a global leader in the semiconductor industry may lead to increased competition and further disruption of international trade relationships, including, but not limited to, additional government trade restrictions. For more on risks related to government export and import restrictions such as the U.S. government’s Entity List and Export Regulations (as defined below), see “ Industry Risks – We are subject to governmental export and import requirements that could subject us to liability and restrict our ability to sell our products and services, which could impair our ability to compete in international markets .” Adverse economic conditions affect demand for devices that our products help create, such as the ICs incorporated in personal computers, smartphones, automobiles and servers. Longer-term reduced demand for these or other products could result in reduced demand for design solutions and significant decreases in our average selling prices and product sales over time. Future economic downturns could also adversely affect our business. In addition, if our customers or distributors build elevated inventory levels, we could experience a decrease in short-term and/or long-term demand for our products. If any of these events or disruptions were to occur, the demand for our products and services could be adversely affected along with our business, operating results and financial condition. Further, the negative impact of these events or disruptions may be deferred due to our business model. Further economic instability could also adversely affect the banking and financial services industry and result in credit downgrades of the banks we rely on for foreign currency forward contracts, credit and banking transactions, and deposit services, or cause them to default on their obligations. Additionally, the banking and financial services industries are subject to complex laws and are heavily regulated. There is uncertainty regarding how proposed, contemplated or future changes to the laws, policies and regulations governing our industry, the banking and financial services industry and the economy could affect our business, including rising global interest rates. A deterioration of conditions in worldwide credit markets could limit our ability to obtain external financing to fund our operations and capital expenditures. In addition, difficult economic conditions may also result in a higher rate of losses on our accounts receivable due to credit defaults. Any of the foregoing could cause adverse effects on our business, operating results and financial condition, and could cause our stock price to decline. The growth of our business depends primarily on the semiconductor and electronics industries. The growth of the EDA industry as a whole, our Semiconductor & System Design segment product sales, and, to some extent, our Software Integrity segment product sales, are dependent on the semiconductor and electronics industries. A substantial portion of our business and revenue depends upon the commencement of new design projects by semiconductor manufacturers, systems companies and their customers. The increasing complexity of designs of SoCs, ICs, electronic systems and customers’ concerns about managing costs have previously led to, and in the future could lead to, a decrease in design starts and design activity in general. For example, in response 16 to this increasing complexity, some customers may choose to focus on one discrete phase of the design process or opt for less advanced, but less risky, manufacturing processes that may not require the most advanced EDA products. Demand for our products and services could decrease and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if growth in the semiconductor and electronics industries slows or stalls, including due to rising inflation and global interest rates, a continued or worsening global supply chain disruption, or the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, as the EDA industry has matured, consolidation has resulted in stronger competition from companies better able to compete as sole source vendors. This increased competition may cause our revenue growth rate to decline and exert downward pressure on our operating margins, which may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Furthermore, the semiconductor and electronics industries have become increasingly complex ecosystems. Many of our customers outsource the manufacturing of their semiconductor designs to foundries. Our customers also frequently incorporate third-party IP, whether provided by us or other vendors, into their designs to improve the efficiency of their design process. We work closely with major foundries to ensure that our EDA, IP and manufacturing solutions are compatible with their manufacturing processes. Similarly, we work closely with other major providers of semiconductor IP, particularly microprocessor IP, to optimize our EDA tools for use with their IP designs and to assure that their IP and our own IP products work effectively together, as we may each provide for the design of separate components on the same chip. If we fail to optimize our EDA and IP solutions for use with major foundries’ manufacturing processes or major IP providers’ products, or if our access to such foundry processes or third-party IP products is hampered, then our solutions may become less desirable to our customers, resulting in an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We operate in highly competitive industries, and if we do not continue to meet our customers’ demand for innovative technology at lower costs, our products may not be competitive or may become obsolete. In our Semiconductor & System Design segment, we compete against EDA vendors that offer a variety of products and services, such as Cadence Design Systems, Inc. and Siemens EDA. We also compete with other EDA vendors, including new entrants to the marketplace, that offer products focused on one or more discrete phases of the IC design process. Moreover, our customers internally develop design tools and capabilities that compete with our products, including internal designs that compete with our IP products. In the area of IP products, we compete against a growing number of IP providers as well as our customers’ internally developed IP. In our Software Integrity segment, we compete with numerous other solution providers, many of which focus on specific aspects of software security or quality analysis. We also compete with frequent new entrants, which include start-up companies and more established software companies. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive, with new competitors entering these markets both domestically and internationally. For example, China has implemented national policies and investment funds to try to build independent EDA capabilities and compete internationally in the semiconductor industry. The demand for our products and services is dynamic and depends on a number of factors, including demand for our customers’ products, design starts and our customers’ budgetary constraints. Technology in these industries evolves rapidly and is characterized by frequent product introductions and improvements as well as changes in industry standards and customer requirements. For example, the adoption of cloud computing and artificial intelligence technologies can bring new demands and also challenges in terms of disruption to both business models and our existing technology offerings. Semiconductor device functionality requirements continually increase while feature widths decrease, substantially increasing the complexity, cost and risk of chip design and manufacturing. At the same time, our customers and potential customers continue to demand an overall lower total cost of design, which can lead to the consolidation of their purchases with one vendor. In order to succeed in this environment, we must successfully meet our customers’ technology requirements and increase the value of our products, while also striving to reduce their overall costs and our own operating costs. We compete principally on the basis of technology, product quality and features (including ease-of-use), license or usage terms, post-contract customer support, interoperability among products and price and payment terms. Specifically, we believe the following competitive factors affect our success: • Our ability to anticipate and lead critical development cycles and technological shifts, innovate rapidly and efficiently, improve our existing software and hardware products and successfully develop or acquire such new products; • Our ability to offer products that provide both a high level of integration into a comprehensive platform and a high level of individual product performance; 17 • Our ability to enhance the value of our offerings through more favorable terms such as expanded license usage, future purchase rights, price discounts and other differentiating rights, such as multiple tool copies, post-contract customer support, “re-mix” rights that allow customers to exchange the software they initially licensed for other Synopsys products and the ability to purchase pools of technology; • Our ability to manage an efficient supply chain to ensure availability of hardware products; • Our ability to compete on the basis of payment terms; and • Our ability to provide engineering and design consulting for our products. If we fail to successfully manage these competitive factors, fail to successfully balance the conflicting demands for innovative technology and lower overall costs, or fail to address new competitive forces, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. We are subject to governmental export and import requirements that could subject us to liability and restrict our ability to sell our products and services, which could impair our ability to compete in international markets. We are subject to export controls, laws and regulations that restrict selling, shipping or transmitting certain of our products and services and transferring certain of our technology outside the United States. These requirements also restrict domestic release of software and technology to certain foreign nationals. In addition, we are subject to customs and other import requirements that regulate imports that may be important for our business. If we fail to comply with the U.S. Export Administration Regulations or other U.S. or non-U.S. export requirements (collectively, the Export Regulations), we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties, including fines for the company and the possible loss of the ability to engage in exporting and other international transactions. Due to the nature of our business and technology, the Export Regulations may also subject us to governmental inquiries regarding transactions between us and certain foreign entities. For example, we have received administrative subpoenas from the U.S. Bureau of Industry and Security (the BIS) requesting production of information and documentation relating to transactions with certain Chinese entities. We believe that we are in full compliance with all applicable regulations and are working with the BIS to respond to its subpoenas. However, we cannot predict the outcome of the inquiries or their potential effect on our operations or financial condition. We believe that current Export Regulations do not materially impact our business at this time, but we cannot predict the impact that additional regulatory changes may have on our business in the future.  The United States has published significant changes to Export Regulations with respect to Russia and China, and we anticipate additional changes to the Export Regulations in the future. For example, the United States government has implemented controls on advanced computing ICs, computer commodities that contain such ICs, and certain semiconductor manufacturing items, as well as controls on transactions involving items for supercomputer and semiconductor manufacturing end-users. The new controls expand the scope of foreign-produced items subject to license requirements for certain entities on the U.S. government's Entity List. Future changes in the Export Regulations, including changes in the enforcement and scope of such regulations, may create delays in the introduction of our products or services in international markets or could prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products or services globally. In some cases, such changes could prevent the export or import of our products. Consolidation among our customers and within the industries in which we operate, as well as our dependence on a relatively small number of large customers, may negatively impact our operating results. A number of business combinations and strategic partnerships among our customers in the semiconductor and electronics industries have occurred over the last several years, and more could occur in the future. Consolidation among our customers could lead to fewer customers or the loss of customers, increased customer bargaining power or reduced customer spending on software and services. Further, we depend on a relatively small number of large customers, and on such customers continuing to renew licenses and purchase additional products from us, for a large portion of our revenues. Consolidation among our customers could also reduce demand for our products and services if customers streamline research and development or operations, or reduce or delay purchasing decisions. Reduced customer spending or the loss of customers, particularly our large customers, could adversely affect our business and financial condition. In addition, we and our competitors may acquire businesses and technologies to 18 complement and expand our respective product offerings. Consolidated competitors could have considerable financial resources and channel influence as well as broad geographic reach, which would enable them to be more competitive in product differentiation, pricing, marketing, services, support and more. If our competitors consolidate or acquire businesses and technologies that we do not offer, they may be able to offer a larger technology portfolio, additional support and service capability or lower prices, which could negatively impact our business and operating results. Business Operations Risks The global nature of our operations exposes us to increased risks and compliance obligations that may adversely affect our business. We derive roughly half of our revenue from sales outside the United States, and we expect our orders and revenue to continue to depend on sales to customers outside the U.S. We have also continually expanded our non-U.S. operations. This strategy requires us to recruit and retain qualified technical and managerial employees, manage multiple remote locations performing complex software development projects and ensure intellectual property protection outside of the U.S. Our international operations and sales subject us to a number of increased risks, including: • Ineffective or weaker legal protection of intellectual property rights; • Uncertain economic, legal and political conditions in China, Europe and other regions where we do business, including, for example, changes in China-Taiwan relations, the military conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the related sanctions and other penalties imposed on Russia by the United States, the European Union, the United Kingdom and other countries; • Economic recessions or uncertainty in financial markets, including the impact of rising inflation and global interest rates; • Government trade restrictions, including tariffs, export controls or other trade barriers, and changes to existing trade arrangements between various countries such as China; • Difficulties in adapting to cultural differences in the conduct of business, which may include business practices in which we are prohibited from engaging by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other anti-corruption laws; • Financial risks such as longer payment cycles, changes in currency exchange rates and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • Inadequate local infrastructure that could result in business disruptions; • Additional taxes, interest and potential penalties and uncertainty around changes in tax laws of various countries; and • Other factors beyond our control such as natural disasters, terrorism, civil unrest, war and infectious diseases and pandemics, including COVID-19 and its variants. Furthermore, if any of the foreign economies in which we do business deteriorate or if we fail to effectively manage our global operations, our business and results of operations will be harmed. There is inherent risk, based on the complex relationships between certain Asian countries such as China, where we derive a growing percentage of our revenue, and the United States, that political, diplomatic or military events could result in trade disruptions, including tariffs, trade embargoes, export restrictions and other trade barriers. A significant trade disruption, export restriction, or the establishment or increase of any trade barrier in any area where we do business could reduce customer demand and cause customers to search for substitute products and services, make our products and services more expensive or unavailable for customers, increase the cost of our products and services, have a negative impact on customer confidence and spending, make our products less competitive, or otherwise have a materially adverse impact on our future revenue and profits, our customers’ and suppliers’ businesses, and our results of operations. For example, the ongoing geopolitical and economic uncertainty between the U.S. and China, the unknown impact of current and future U.S. and Chinese trade regulations as described above, and other geopolitical risks with respect to China and Taiwan may cause disruptions in the markets and industries we serve and our supply chain, decrease demand from customers for products using our solutions or cause other disruptions which could, directly or indirectly, materially harm our 19 business, financial condition and results of operations. For more on risks related to government export and import restrictions such as the U.S. government’s Entity List and Export Regulations see “ Industry Risks – We are subject to governmental export and import requirements that could subject us to liability and restrict our ability to sell our products and services, which could impair our ability to compete in international markets .” In response to the U.S. adopting tariffs and trade barriers or taking other actions, other countries may also adopt tariffs and trade barriers that could limit our ability to offer our products and services. Current and potential customers who are concerned or affected by such tariffs or restrictions may respond by developing their own products or replacing our solutions, which would have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, government or customer efforts, attitudes, laws or policies regarding technology independence may lead to non-U.S. customers favoring their domestic technology solutions that could compete with or replace our products, which would also have an adverse effect on our business. In addition to tariffs and other trade barriers, our global operations are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations such as those related to anti-corruption, tax, corporate governance, imports and exports, financial and other disclosures, privacy and labor relations. These laws and regulations are complex and may have differing or conflicting legal standards, making compliance difficult and costly. In addition, there is uncertainty regarding how proposed, contemplated or future changes to these complex laws and regulations could affect our business. We may incur substantial expense in complying with the new obligations to be imposed by these laws and regulations, and we may be required to make significant changes in our business operations, all of which may adversely affect our revenues and our business overall. If we violate these laws and regulations, we could be subject to fines, penalties or criminal sanctions, and may be prohibited from conducting business in one or more countries. Although we have implemented policies and procedures to help ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, agents or partners will not violate such laws and regulations. Any violation individually or in the aggregate could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Our financial results are also affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. A weakening U.S. dollar relative to other currencies increases expenses of our foreign subsidiaries when they are translated into U.S. dollars in our consolidated statements of income. Likewise, a strengthening U.S. dollar relative to other currencies, including the renminbi or Yen, reduces revenue of our foreign subsidiaries upon translation and consolidation. Exchange rates are subject to significant and rapid fluctuations due to a number of factors, including interest rate changes and political and economic uncertainty. Therefore, we cannot predict the prospective impact of exchange rate fluctuations. Although we engage in foreign currency hedging activity, we may be unable to hedge all of our foreign currency risk, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has caused minor disruptions to our business operations to date, but could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition in the future. For example, we have previously experienced limited hardware supply chain and logistical challenges as well as a slowdown in customer commitments in our Software Integrity segment. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, governments and businesses imposed restrictions, which significantly curtailed global, regional and national economic activity and have caused substantial volatility and disruption in global financial markets. We are continuing to transition employees back into offices worldwide while maintaining compliance with applicable local, state and national requirements. Although we have been able to navigate workplace restrictions and limitations with minimal disruptions to our business operations to date, we cannot be certain that these measures will continue to be successful and we may need to further modify our business practices and real estate needs in response to the risks and negative impacts caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts our business operations in future periods will depend on multiple uncertain factors, including the duration and scope of the pandemic, its overall negative impact on the global economy and, in some cases, the regional and national economies of areas experiencing localized surges in COVID-19 cases, continued responses by governments and businesses to COVID-19 and its variants, acceptance and effectiveness of vaccines, the ability of our business partners and third-party providers to fulfill their responsibilities and commitments, the ability to secure adequate and timely supply of equipment and materials from suppliers for our hardware products, and the ability to develop and deliver our products. In addition, continued and worsening weak economic conditions may result in impairment in value of our tangible and intangible assets. The 20 impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks and uncertainties described in this Risk Factors section. Our operating results may fluctuate in the future, which may adversely affect our stock price. Our operating results are subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations, which may adversely affect our stock price. Our historical results should not be viewed as indicative of our future performance due to these periodic fluctuations. Many factors may cause our revenue or earnings to fluctuate, including: • Changes in demand for our products—especially products, such as hardware, generating upfront revenue—due to fluctuations in demand for our customers’ products and due to constraints in our customers’ budgets for research and development and EDA products and services; • Changes in demand for our products due to customers reducing their expenditures, whether as a cost-cutting measure or a result of their insolvency or bankruptcy, and whether due to inflationary pressures, rising global interest rates, a sustained global semiconductor shortage, the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic or other reasons; • Product competition in the EDA industry, which can change rapidly due to industry or customer consolidation and technological innovation; • Our ability to innovate and introduce new products and services or effectively integrate products and technologies that we acquire; • Failures or delays in completing sales due to our lengthy sales cycle, which often includes a substantial customer evaluation and approval process because of the complexity of our products and services; • Our ability to implement effective cost control measures; • Our dependence on a relatively small number of large customers, and on such customers continuing to renew licenses and purchase additional products from us, for a large portion of our revenue; • Changes to the amount, composition and valuation of, and any impairments to or write-offs of, our inventory; • Changes in the mix of our products sold, as increased sales of our products with lower gross margins, such as our hardware products, may reduce our overall margins; • Expenses related to our acquisition and integration of businesses and technologies; • Changes in tax rules, as well as changes to our effective tax rate, including the tax effects of infrequent or unusual transactions and tax audit settlements; • Delays, increased costs or quality issues resulting from our reliance on third parties to manufacture our hardware products, which includes a sole supplier for certain hardware components; • Natural variability in the timing of IP drawdowns, which can be difficult to predict; • General economic and political conditions that affect the semiconductor and electronics industries, such as disruptions to international trade relationships, including tariffs, export licenses, or other trade barriers affecting our or our suppliers’ products, as well as impacts due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic; and • Changes in accounting standards, which may impact the way we recognize our revenue and costs and impact our earnings. The timing of revenue recognition may also cause our revenue and earnings to fluctuate. The timing of revenue recognition is affected by factors that include: • Cancellations or changes in levels of orders or the mix between upfront products revenue and time-based products revenue; • Delay of one or more orders for a particular period, particularly orders generating upfront products revenue, such as hardware; 21 • Delay in the completion of professional services projects that require significant modification or customization and are accounted for using the percentage of completion method; • Delay in the completion and delivery of IP products in development as to which customers have paid for early access; • Customer contract amendments or renewals that provide discounts or defer revenue to later periods; and • The levels of our hardware and IP revenues, which are recognized upfront and are primarily dependent upon our ability to provide the latest technology and meet customer requirements. These factors, or any other factors or risks discussed herein, could negatively impact our revenue or earnings and cause our stock price to decline. Additionally, our results may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, or such analysts may change their recommendation regarding our stock, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our stock price has been, and may continue to be, volatile, which may make it more difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares at a time or a price that is favorable to them. Cybersecurity threats or other security breaches could compromise sensitive information belonging to us or our customers and could harm our business and our reputation, particularly that of our security testing solutions. We store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, and confidential employee information, in our data centers, on our networks or on the cloud. These systems may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or compromised due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions that could result in unauthorized disclosure or loss of sensitive information. Many employees continue to work remotely based on a hybrid work model, which magnifies the importance of maintaining the integrity of our remote access security measures. For example, we discovered unauthorized third-party access to our products and product license files hosted on our SolvNet Plus customer license and product delivery system in 2015. While we identified and remediated the incident, it is possible that our security measures may be circumvented again in the future, and any such breach could adversely impact our business, operations and reputation. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to networks, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. We may be unable to anticipate these techniques, react in a timely manner or implement adequate preventative measures. Furthermore, in the operation of our business we also use third-party vendors that have access to our network and store certain sensitive data, including confidential information about our employees, and these third parties are subject to their own cybersecurity threats. Our standard vendor terms and conditions include provisions requiring the use of appropriate security measures to prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of our data, as well as other safeguards. However, that is no guarantee that a breach will not still occur. In addition, if we select a vendor that uses cloud storage of information as part of their service or product offerings, or if we are selected as a vendor for our cloud-based solutions, our proprietary information could be misappropriated by third parties despite our attempts to validate the security of such services. Any security breach of our own or a third-party vendor’s systems could cause us to be non-compliant with applicable laws or regulations, subject us to legal claims or proceedings, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, any of which could adversely affect our business and our ability to sell our products and services. Our software products, hosted solutions, and software security and quality testing solutions may also be vulnerable to attacks, including phishing, exploits of our code or our system configurations, malicious code (such as viruses and worms), distributed denial-of-service attacks, sophisticated attacks conducted or sponsored by nation-states, advanced persistent threat intrusions, ransomware and other malware. Furthermore, the risk of state-supported and geopolitical-related cybersecurity incidents may increase due to geopolitical incidents, such as the Russia-Ukraine conflict. An attack could disrupt the proper functioning of our software, cause errors in the output of our customers’ work, allow unauthorized access to our or our customers’ proprietary information or cause other destructive outcomes. We also offer software security and quality testing solutions. If we fail to identify new and increasingly sophisticated methods of cyber attacks or fail to invest sufficient resources in research and development regarding new threat vectors, our security testing products and services may fail to detect vulnerabilities in our customers’ software code. An actual or perceived failure to identify security flaws may harm the perceived reliability of our security testing products and services, and could result in a loss of customers or sales, or an increased cost to remedy a problem. Furthermore, our growth and recent acquisitions in the software security and quality testing space may increase our 22 visibility as a security-focused company and may make us a more attractive target for attacks on our own information technology infrastructure. If any of the foregoing were to occur, we could experience negative publicity and our reputation could suffer, customers could stop buying our products, we could face lawsuits and potential liability, and our financial performance could be negatively impacted. If we fail to protect our proprietary technology, our business will be harmed. Our success depends in part upon protecting our proprietary technology. Our efforts to protect our technology may be costly and unsuccessful. We rely on agreements with customers, employees and other third-parties as well as intellectual property laws worldwide to protect our proprietary technology. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Additionally, despite our measures to prevent piracy, other parties may attempt to illegally copy or use our products, which could result in lost revenue if their efforts are successful. Some foreign countries do not currently provide effective legal protection for intellectual property and our ability to prevent the unauthorized use of our products in those countries is therefore limited. Our trade secrets may also be stolen, otherwise become known, or be independently developed by competitors. From time to time, we may need to commence litigation or other legal proceedings in order to: • Assert claims of infringement of our intellectual property; • Defend our products from piracy; • Protect our trade secrets or know-how; or • Determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the propriety rights of others. If we do not obtain or maintain appropriate patent, copyright or trade secret protection, for any reason, or cannot fully defend our intellectual property rights in certain jurisdictions, our business and operating results would be harmed. In addition, intellectual property litigation is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Legal fees related to such litigation will increase our operating expenses and may reduce our net income. We may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of the acquisitions we complete, or find suitable target businesses and technology to acquire, which could hurt our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products. Acquisitions and strategic investments are an important part of our growth strategy. We have completed a significant number of acquisitions in recent years. We expect to make additional acquisitions and strategic investments in the future, but we may not find suitable acquisition or investment targets, or we may not be able to consummate desired acquisitions or investments due to unfavorable credit markets, commercially unacceptable terms or other risks, which could harm our operating results. Acquisitions and strategic investments are difficult, time-consuming, and pose a number of risks, including: • Potential negative impact on our earnings per share; • Failure of acquired products to achieve projected sales; • Problems in integrating the acquired products with our products; • Difficulties entering into new markets in which we are not experienced or where competitors may have stronger positions; • Potential downward pressure on operating margins due to lower operating margins of acquired businesses, increased headcount costs, and other expenses associated with adding and supporting new products; • Difficulties in retaining and integrating key employees; • Substantial reductions of our cash resources and/or the incurrence of debt, which may be at higher than anticipated interest rates; • Failure to realize expected synergies or cost savings; • Difficulties in integrating or expanding sales, marketing and distribution functions and administrative systems, including information technology and human resources systems; 23 • Dilution of our current stockholders through the issuance of common stock as part of the merger consideration; • Difficulties in negotiating, governing and realizing value from strategic investments; • Assumption of unknown liabilities, including tax, litigation, cybersecurity and commercial-related risks, and the related expenses and diversion of resources; • Incurrence of costs and use of additional resources to remedy issues identified prior to or after an acquisition; • Disruption of ongoing business operations, including diversion of management’s attention and uncertainty for employees and customers, particularly during the post-acquisition integration process; • Potential negative impacts on our relationships with customers, distributors and business partners; • Exposure to new operational risks, regulations and business customs to the extent acquired businesses are located in regions where we are not currently conducting business; • The need to implement controls, processes and policies appropriate for a public company at acquired companies that may have previously lacked such controls, processes and policies in areas such as cybersecurity, information technology, privacy and more; • Negative impact on our net income resulting from acquisition or investment-related costs; and • Requirements imposed by government regulators in connection with their review of an acquisition, including required divestitures or restrictions on the conduct of our business or the acquired business. If we do not manage the foregoing risks, the acquisitions or strategic investments that we complete may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We may pursue new product and technology initiatives, and if we fail to successfully carry out these initiatives, we could be adversely impacted. As part of the evolution of our business, we have made substantial investments to develop new products and enhancements to existing products through our acquisitions and research and development efforts. If we are unable to anticipate technological changes in our industry by introducing new or enhanced products in a timely and cost-effective manner, or if we fail to introduce products that meet market demand, we may lose our competitive position, our products may become obsolete, and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Additionally, from time to time, we may invest in efforts to expand into adjacent markets, including, for example, software security and quality testing solutions. Although we believe these solutions are complementary to our EDA tools, we have less experience and a more limited operating history in offering software quality testing and security products and services, and our efforts in this area may not be successful. Our success in these and other new markets depends on a variety of factors, including the following: • Our ability to attract a new customer base, including in industries in which we have less experience; • Our successful development of new sales and marketing strategies to meet customer requirements; • Our ability to accurately predict, prepare for and promptly respond to technological developments in new fields, including, in the case of our software quality testing and security tools and services, identifying new security vulnerabilities in software code and ensuring support for a growing number of programming languages; • Our ability to compete with new and existing competitors in these new industries, many of which may have more financial resources, industry experience, brand recognition, relevant intellectual property rights or established customer relationships than we currently do, and could include free and open source solutions that provide similar software quality testing and security tools without fees; • Our ability to skillfully balance our investment in adjacent markets with investment in our existing products and services; 24 • Our ability to attract and retain employees with expertise in new fields; • Our ability to sell and support consulting services at profitable margins; and • Our ability to manage our revenue model in connection with hybrid sales of licensed products and consulting services. Difficulties in any of our new product development efforts or our efforts to enter adjacent markets, including as a result of delays or disruptions, new export control restrictions or the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We may have to invest more resources in research and development than anticipated, which could increase our operating expenses and negatively affect our operating results. We devote substantial resources to research and development. New competitors, technological advances in the semiconductor industry or by competitors, our acquisitions, our entry into new markets or other competitive factors may require us to invest significantly greater resources than we anticipate. If we are required to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated without a corresponding increase in revenue, our operating results could decline. If customers reduce or slow the need to upgrade or enhance their product offerings, our revenue and operating results may be adversely affected. Additionally, our periodic research and development expenses may be independent of our level of revenue, which could negatively impact our financial results. New products may not adequately address the changing needs of the marketplace. New software products may contain undetected errors, defects or vulnerabilities. The occurrence of any defects or errors in our products could result in lost or delayed market acceptance and sales of our products, delays in payment by customers, loss of customers or market share, product returns, damage to our reputation, diversion of our resources, increased service and warranty expenses or financial concessions, increased insurance costs and potential liability for damages. Finally, there can be no guarantee that our research and development investments will result in products that create additional revenue. Product errors or defects could expose us to liability and harm our reputation and we could lose market share. Software products frequently contain errors or defects, especially when first introduced, when new versions are released, or when integrated with technologies developed by acquired companies. Product errors, including those resulting from third-party suppliers, could affect the performance or interoperability of our products, could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products and could adversely affect market acceptance or perception of our products. In addition, any allegations of manufacturability issues resulting from use of our IP products could, even if untrue, adversely affect our reputation and our customers’ willingness to license IP products from us. Any such errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products or allegations of unsatisfactory performance could cause us to lose customers, increase our service costs, subject us to liability for damages and divert our resources from other tasks, any one of which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Our hardware products, which primarily consist of prototyping and emulation systems, subject us to distinct risks. The growth in sales of our hardware products subjects us to several risks, including: • Increased dependence on a sole supplier for certain hardware components, which may reduce our control over product quality and pricing and may lead to delays in production and delivery of our hardware products, should our supplier fail to deliver sufficient quantities of acceptable components in a timely fashion; • Increasingly variable revenue and less predictable revenue forecasts, due to fluctuations in hardware revenue, which is recognized upfront upon shipment, as opposed to most sales of software products for which revenue is recognized over time; • Potential reductions in overall margins, as the gross margin for our hardware products, is typically lower than those of our software products; • Longer sales cycles, which create risks of insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory and variations in inventory valuation, which can adversely affect our operating results; 25 • Decreases or delays in customer purchases in favor of next-generation releases, which may lead to excess or obsolete inventory or require us to discount our older hardware products; • Longer warranty periods than those of our software products, which may require us to replace hardware components under warranty, thus increasing our costs; and • Potential impacts on our supply chain, including due to the effects of increasing inflationary pressures and rising global interest rates, a sustained global semiconductor shortage and the COVID-19 pandemic. If we fail to timely recruit and/or retain senior management and key employees globally, our business may be harmed. We depend in large part upon the services of our senior management team to drive our future success, and certain team members depart our company from time to time. If we were to lose the services of any member of our senior management team without adequate notice, our business could be adversely affected. To be successful, we must also attract and retain key employees who join us organically and through acquisitions. There are a limited number of qualified engineers. Competition for these individuals and other qualified employees is intense and has increased globally, including in major markets such as Asia. Our employees are often recruited aggressively by our competitors and our customers worldwide. Any failure to recruit and retain key employees could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition, and our recruiting and retention efforts may be negatively impacted by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, efforts to recruit and retain qualified employees could be costly and negatively impact our operating expenses. We issue equity awards from employee equity plans as a key component of our overall compensation. We face pressure to limit the use of such equity-based compensation due to its dilutive effect on stockholders. If we are unable to grant attractive equity-based packages in the future, it could limit our ability to attract and retain key employees. From time to time, we are subject to claims that our products infringe on third-party intellectual property rights. We are from time to time subject to claims alleging our infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, including patent rights. Under our customer agreements and other license agreements, we agree in many cases to indemnify our customers if our products are alleged to infringe a third party’s intellectual property rights. Infringement claims can result in costly and time-consuming litigation, require us to enter into royalty arrangements, subject us to damages or injunctions restricting our sale of products, invalidate a patent or family of patents, require us to refund license fees to our customers or to forgo future payments, or require us to redesign certain of our products, any one of which could harm our business and operating res ults. For example, some customers have requested we defend and indemnify them against claims for patent infringement asserted in various district courts and at the U.S. International Trade Commission by Bell Semiconductor LLC (Bell Semic), a patent monetization entity, based on Bell Semic’s allegation that the customers’ use of one or more features of certain of our products infringes one or more of six patents held by Bell Semic. We have offered to defend some of our customers consistent with the terms of our End User License Agreement. We may not be able to continue to obtain licenses to third-party software and intellectual property on reasonable terms or at all, which may disrupt our business and harm our financial results. We license third-party software and other intellectual property for use in product research and development and, in several instances, for inclusion in our products. We also license third-party software, including the software of our competitors, to test the interoperability of our products with other industry products and in connection with our professional services. These licenses may need to be renegotiated or renewed from time to time, or we may need to obtain new licenses in the future. Third parties may stop adequately supporting or maintaining their technology, or they or their technology may be acquired by our competitors. If we are unable to obtain licenses to these third-party software and intellectual property on reasonable terms or at all, we may not be able to sell the affected products, our customers’ use of the products may be interrupted, or our product development processes and professional services offerings may be disrupted, which could in turn harm our financial results, our customers, and our reputation. The inclusion of third-party intellectual property in our products can also subject us and our customers to infringement claims. Although we seek to mitigate this risk contractually, we may not be able to sufficiently limit our 26 potential liability. Regardless of outcome, infringement claims may require us to use significant resources and may divert management’s attention from the operation of our business. Some of our products and technology, including those we acquire, may include software licensed under open source licenses. Some open source licenses could require us, under certain circumstances, to make available or grant licenses to any modifications or derivative works we create based on the open source software. Although we have tools and processes to monitor and restrict our use of open source software, the risks associated with open source usage may not be eliminated and may, if not properly addressed, result in unanticipated obligations that harm our business. In preparing our financial statements we make certain assumptions, judgments and estimates that affect amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements, which, if not accurate, may significantly impact our financial results. We make assumptions, judgments and estimates for a number of items, including the fair value of financial instruments, goodwill, long-lived assets and other intangible assets, the realizability of deferred tax assets, the recognition of revenue and the fair value of stock awards. We also make assumptions, judgments and estimates in determining the accruals for employee-related liabilities, including commissions and variable compensation, and in determining the accruals for uncertain tax positions, valuation allowances on deferred tax assets, allowances for credit losses, and legal contingencies. These assumptions, judgments and estimates are drawn from historical experience and various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances as of the date of the consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ materially from our estimates, and such differences could significantly impact our financial results. Liquidity requirements in our U.S. operations may require us to raise cash in uncertain capital markets, which could negatively affect our financial condition. As of October 31, 2022, approximately 48% of our worldwide cash and cash equivalents balance is held by our international subsidiaries. We intend to meet our U.S. cash spending needs primarily through our existing U.S. cash balances, ongoing U.S. cash flows, and available credit under our term loan and revolving credit facilities. Should our cash spending needs in the U.S. rise and exceed these liquidity sources, we may be required to incur additional debt at higher than anticipated interest rates or access other funding sources, which could negatively affect our results of operations, capital structure or the market price of our common stock. Legal and Regulatory Risks Our results could be adversely affected by a change in our effective tax rate as a result of tax law changes and related new or revised guidance and regulations, changes in our geographical earnings mix, unfavorable government reviews of our tax returns, material differences between our forecasted and actual annual effective tax rates, future changes to our tax structure, or by evolving enforcement practices. Our operations are subject to income and transaction taxes in the United States and in multiple foreign jurisdictions. Because we have a wide range of statutory tax rates in the multiple jurisdictions in which we operate, any changes in our geographical earnings mix, including those resulting from our intercompany transfer pricing or from changes in the rules governing transfer pricing, could materially impact our effective tax rate. Furthermore, a change in the tax law of the jurisdictions where we do business, including an increase in tax rates, an adverse change in the treatment of an item of income or expense, or limitations on our ability to utilize tax credits, could result in a material increase in our tax expense and impact our financial position and cash flows. For example, in response to the fiscal impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, the State of California enacted legislation on June 29, 2020 that suspends the use of certain corporate research and development tax credits for a three-year period beginning in our fiscal 2021, which resulted in an impact to our tax expense. On February 9, 2022, California Governor Newsom signed into law 2022 CA SB 113, which shortened the previously enacted suspension on the use of research and development tax credits to a two-year period covering our fiscal 2021 and 2022. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act) was enacted, which significantly changed prior U.S. tax law and includes numerous provisions that affect our business. The Tax Act includes certain provisions that began to affect our income in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, while other sections of the Tax Act and related regulations will begin to affect our business in the first quarter of fiscal 2023. There are various proposals in Congress to amend certain provisions of the Tax Act. The state of these proposals and other future legislation remains uncertain and, if enacted, may materially affect our financial position. 27 On August 16, 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (IR Act) was enacted in the United States. The IR Act includes a minimum tax rate of 15%, as well as tax credit incentives for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. The details of the computation of the tax and implementation of the incentives will be subject to regulations to be issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury. On August 9, 2022, the CHIPS and Science Act of 2022 (CHIPS Act) was enacted in the United States to provide certain financial incentives to the semiconductor industry, primarily for manufacturing activities within the United States. We are continuing to monitor the IR Act and CHIPS Act and related regulatory developments to evaluate their potential impact on our business and operating results. On October 8, 2021, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) announced the OECD/G20 Inclusive Framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (Framework) which agreed to a two-pillar solution to address tax challenges arising from digitalization of the economy. On December 20, 2021, the OECD released Pillar Two Model Rules defining the global minimum tax rules, which contemplate a minimum tax rate of 15%. The OECD continues to release additional guidance on these rules and the Framework calls for law enactment by OECD and G20 members to take effect in 2023 and 2024. These changes, when enacted by various countries in which we do business, may increase our taxes in these countries. Changes to these and other areas in relation to international tax reform, including future actions taken by foreign governments in response to the Tax Act, could increase uncertainty and may adversely affect our tax rate and cash flow in future years. Our income and non-income tax filings are subject to review or audit by the Internal Revenue Service and state, local and foreign taxing authorities. We exercise significant judgment in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and, in the ordinary course of our business, there may be transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We may also be liable for potential tax liabilities of businesses we acquire, including future taxes payable related to the transition tax on earnings from their foreign operations, if any, under the Tax Act. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination in an audit may be materially different than the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. An assessment of additional taxes because of an audit could adversely affect our income tax provision and net income in the periods for which that determination is made. For further discussion on our ongoing audit, see Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under the heading “Non-U.S. Examinations.” We maintain significant deferred tax assets related to certain tax credits. Our ability to use these credits is dependent upon having sufficient future taxable income in the relevant jurisdiction and in the case of foreign tax credits, how such credits are treated under current and potential future tax law. Changes to the Tax Act, other regulatory changes, and changes in our forecasts of future income could result in an adjustment to the deferred tax asset and a related charge to earnings that could materially affect our financial results. Our business is subject to evolving corporate governance and public disclosure regulations and expectations, including with respect to environmental, social and governance matters that could expose us to numerous risks. We are subject to changing rules and regulations promulgated by a number of governmental and self-regulatory organizations, including the SEC, the Nasdaq Stock Market and the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). These rules and regulations continue to evolve in scope and complexity and many new requirements have been created in response to laws enacted by Congress, making compliance difficult and uncertain. In addition, increasingly regulators, customers, investors, employees and other stakeholders are focusing on environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters and related disclosures. These changing rules, regulations and stakeholder expectations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and increased management time and attention spent complying with or meeting such regulations and expectations. For example, developing and acting on ESG initiatives, and collecting, measuring, and reporting ESG information and metrics can be costly, difficult and time consuming and is subject to evolving reporting standards, including the SEC’s proposed climate-related reporting requirements. We may also communicate certain initiatives and goals regarding environmental matters, diversity, responsible sourcing, social investments and other ESG matters in our SEC filings or in other public disclosures. These initiatives and goals could be difficult and expensive to implement, the technologies needed to implement them may not be cost effective and may not advance at a sufficient pace, and ensuring the accuracy, adequacy, or completeness of the disclosure of our ESG initiatives can be costly, difficult and time-consuming. Further, statements about our ESG initiatives and goals, and progress against those goals, may be based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing, internal controls and processes that continue to evolve, and assumptions that are subject to change. In addition, we could face scrutiny from certain stakeholders for the scope or nature of such initiatives or goals, or for any revisions to these goals. If our ESG-related data, processes and reporting are incomplete or inaccurate, or if we fail to achieve progress with respect to our ESG goals on a timely basis, or at all, our business, financial performance and growth could be adversely affected. 28 Changes in the U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP) could adversely affect our financial results and may require significant changes to our internal accounting systems and processes. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP. These principles are subject to interpretation by the FASB, the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles and guidance. The FASB periodically issues new accounting standards on a variety of topics, including, for example, revenue recognition and accounting for leases. These and other such standards generally result in different accounting principles, which may significantly impact our reported results or could result in variability of our financial results. We may be subject to litigation proceedings that could harm our business. We may be subject to legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer, employment, customer, supplier, competition and other issues on a global basis. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could include monetary damages or, in cases for which injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting us from manufacturing or selling one or more products. If we were to receive an unfavorable ruling on a matter, our business and results of operations could be materially harmed. Further information regarding certain of these matters is contained in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings . There are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of our controls and compliance programs. Regardless of how well designed and operated it is, a control system can provide only reasonable assurance that its objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. Moreover, although we have implemented compliance programs and compliance training for employees, such measures may not prevent our employees, contractors or agents from breaching or circumventing our policies or violating applicable laws and regulations. Failure of our control systems and compliance programs to prevent error, fraud or violations of law could have a material adverse impact on our business. General Risks Our investment portfolio may be impaired by any deterioration of capital markets. From time to time, our cash equivalent and short-term investment portfolio consists of investment-grade U.S. government agency securities, asset-backed securities, corporate debt securities, commercial paper, certificates of deposit, money market funds, municipal securities and other securities and bank deposits. Our investment portfolio carries both interest rate risk and credit risk and may be negatively impacted by deteriorating economic conditions and rising global interest rates. Fixed rate debt securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a credit downgrade or a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall or a credit downgrade occurs. Our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of investments held by us is judged to be other-than-temporary. In addition, we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in the issuer’s credit quality or changes in interest rates. Catastrophic events and the effects of climate change may disrupt our business and harm our operating results. Due to the global nature of our business, our operating results may be negatively impacted by catastrophic events and the effects of climate change throughout the world. We rely on a global network of infrastructure applications, enterprise applications and technology systems for our development, marketing, operational, support and sales activities. A disruption or failure of these systems in the event of a major earthquake, fire, extreme temperatures, drought, flood, telecommunications failure, cybersecurity attack, terrorist attack, epidemic or pandemic (including the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic), or other catastrophic events or climate change-related events could cause system interruptions, delays in our product development and loss of critical data and could prevent us from fulfilling our customers’ orders. In particular, our sales and infrastructure are vulnerable to regional or worldwide health conditions, including the effects of the outbreak of contagious diseases such as the COVID-19 pandemic. Moreover, our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, our data centers, and 29 certain other critical business operations are located in California, near major earthquake faults and sites of recent wildfires, which may become more frequent, along with other extreme weather events, due to climate change. A catastrophic event or other extreme weather event that results in the destruction or disruption of our data centers or our critical business or information technology systems would severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our operating results would be adversely affected.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Overview The following overview is qualified in its entirety by the more complete discussion contained in this Item 7, the risk factors set forth in Item 1A of this Form 10-K, and our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto set forth in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Please also see the cautionary language at the beginning of Part I of this Form 10-K regarding forward-looking statements. Business Summary Synopsys provides products and services used across the entire Silicon to Software spectrum, from engineers creating advanced semiconductors to product teams developing advanced electronic systems to software developers seeking to ensure the security and quality of their code. We are a global leader in electronic design automation (EDA) software that engineers use to design and test integrated circuits (ICs), also known as chips. We also offer semiconductor intellectual property (IP) products, which are pre-designed circuits that engineers use as components of larger chip designs rather than designing those circuits themselves. We provide software and hardware used to validate the electronic systems that incorporate chips and the software that runs on them. We also provide technical services and support to help our customers develop advanced chips and electronic systems. These products and services are part of our Semiconductor & System Design segment. 33 We are also a leading provider of software tools and services that improve the security, quality and compliance of software in a wide variety of industries, including electronics, financial services, automotive, medicine, energy and industrials. These tools and services are part of our Software Integrity segment. Our EDA and IP customers are generally semiconductor and electronics systems companies. Our solutions help these companies overcome the challenges of developing increasingly advanced electronics products while also helping them reduce their design and manufacturing costs. While our products are an important part of our customers’ development process, our sales could be affected based on their research and development budgets, and our customers' spending decisions may be affected by their business outlook and willingness to invest in new and increasingly complex chip designs. Our Software Integrity segment delivers products and services that enable software developers to test their code - while it is being written - for known security vulnerabilities and quality defects, as well as testing for open source security vulnerabilities and license compliance. Our Software Integrity customers are software developers across many industries, including, but also well beyond, the semiconductor and systems industries. Our Software Integrity products and services form a platform that helps our customers build security into the software development lifecycle and across the entire cyber supply chain. We have consistently grown our revenue since 2005, despite periods of global economic uncertainty. We achieved these results because of our solid execution, leading technologies and strong customer relationships, and because we generally recognize our revenue for software licenses over the arrangement period, which typically approximates three years. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion on our revenue recognition policy . The revenue we recognize in a particular period generally results from selling efforts in prior periods rather than the current period. As a result, decreases as well as increases in customer spending do not immediately affect our revenues in a significant way. Our growth strategy is based on maintaining and building on our leadership in our EDA products, expanding and proliferating our IP offerings, driving growth in the software security and quality market, and continuing to expand our product portfolio and our total addressable market. Our revenue growth from period to period is expected to vary based on the mix of our time based and upfront products. Based on our leading technologies, customer relationships, business model, diligent expense management, and acquisition strategy, we believe that we will continue to execute our strategies successfully. Recent Developments Developments in Export Control Regulations On October 7, 2022, the Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) of the U.S. Department of Commerce published changes to U.S. export control regulations (U.S. Export Regulations), including new restrictions on Chinese entities' ability to obtain advanced computing chips, develop and maintain supercomputers, and manufacture advanced semiconductors. Further, on October 14, 2022, a new rule went into effect imposing U.S. export controls on additional technologies, including electronic computer-aided design software specially designed for the development of ICs with Gate-All-Around Field-Effect Transistor structures. Based on our current understanding, we believe these regulations will not have a material impact on our business. We anticipate additional changes to U.S. Export Regulations in the future, but we cannot forecast the scope or timing of such changes. We will continue to monitor such developments, including potential additional trade restrictions, and other regulatory or policy changes by the U.S. and foreign governments. For more on risks related to government export and import restrictions such as the U.S. government’s Entity List and other U.S. Export Regulations, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, “ Industry Risks – We are subject to governmental export and import requirements that could subject us to liability and restrict our ability to sell our products and services, which could impair our ability to compete in international markets .” Impact of the Current Macroeconomic Environment and COVID-19 Uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment, including due to the effects of the recent rise in global inflation and interest rates, supply chain disruptions, geopolitical pressures, including the unknown impact of current and future U.S. and Chinese trade regulations, changes in China-Taiwan relations and the war in Ukraine, fluctuation in foreign exchange rates, and associated global economic conditions have resulted in volatility in credit, equity and foreign currency markets. 34 These uncertain macroeconomic conditions could lead some of our customers to postpone their decision-making, decrease their spending and/or delay their payments to us. For example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022, we experienced a minor impact from the current macroeconomic environment in our Software Integrity segment as customers applied elevated levels of scrutiny to purchasing decisions, which has, in some cases, caused some customers to elect shorter term contracts due to their own budget uncertainty. If these uncertain macroeconomic conditions persist, they may continue to have an adverse impact on certain aspects of our business. Additionally, the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has impacted worldwide economic activity and financial markets and significantly increased economic volatility and uncertainty. Despite this widespread volatility and uncertainty, the COVID-19 pandemic has caused only minor disruptions to our business operations with a limited impact on our operating results thus far. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts our business operations in future periods will depend on multiple uncertain factors, including the duration of the pandemic and its overall negative impact on the global economy generally and the semiconductor and electronics industries specifically. We have not identified trends that we expect will materially impact our future operating results at this time and continue to consider the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business operations. While our time-based business model provides stability to our business, operating results and overall financial position, the broader implications of these macroeconomic events, particularly in the long term, remain uncertain. Further, the negative impact of these events or disruptions may be deferred due to our business model. See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors for further discussion of the impact of global economic uncertainty and ongoing COVID-19 pandemic on our business, operations and financial condition. Business Segments Semiconductor & System Design. This segment includes our advanced silicon design, verification products and services, and semiconductor IP portfolio, which encompasses products and services that serve companies primarily in the semiconductor and electronics industries. EDA includes digital, custom and field programmable gate array (FPGA) IC design software, verification products, and manufacturing software products. Designers use these products to automate the highly complex IC design process and to reduce defects that could lead to expensive design or manufacturing re-spins or suboptimal end products. For IP, we are a leading provider of high-quality, silicon-proven IP solutions for system-on-chips (SoCs). This includes IP that has been optimized to address specific application requirements for the mobile, automotive, digital home, IoT, and cloud computing markets, enabling designers to quickly develop SoCs in these areas. Software Integrity. This segment includes a broad portfolio of products and services to intelligently address software risks across the customer’s portfolio and at all stages of the application lifecycle. The testing tools, services, and programs enable our customers to manage open source license compliance and detect, prioritize, and remediate security vulnerabilities and defects across their entire software development lifecycle. Our offerings include security and quality testing products, managed services, programs and professional services, and training. Fiscal Year End Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to October 31 and consists of 52 weeks, with the exception that approximately every five years, we have a 53-week year. When a 53-week year occurs, we include the additional week in the first quarter to realign fiscal quarters with calendar quarters. Fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020 were 52-week years ending on October 29, 2022, October 30, 2021, and October 31, 2020, respectively. Fiscal 2023 will be a 52-week year. For presentation purposes, this Form 10-K refers to the closest calendar month end. Critical Accounting Estimates Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. In preparing these financial statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and net income. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates based on historical experience and various other assumptions we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results may differ from these estimates. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our significant accounting policies. The accounting policies that most frequently require us to make assumptions, judgments and estimates, and therefore are critical to understanding our results of operations, are: 35 • Revenue recognition; and • Business combinations. Revenue Recognition Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. Arrangements with customers can involve multiple products and various license rights. Customers can negotiate for a broad portfolio of solutions, and favorable terms along with future purchase options to manage their overall costs. Analysis of the terms and conditions in these contracts and their effect on revenue recognition may require significant judgment. We have concluded that our EDA software licenses in Technology Subscription License (TSL) contracts are not distinct from our obligation to provide unspecified software updates to the licensed software throughout the license term, because those promises represent inputs to a single, combined performance obligation. Where unspecified additional software product rights are part of the contract with the customer, those rights are accounted for as part of the single performance obligation that includes the licenses, updates, and technical support, because such rights are provided during the same period of time and have the same time-based pattern of transfer to the customer. For our IP licensing arrangements, we have concluded that the licenses and support services are distinct from each other, and therefore treated as separate performance obligations. Revenues from IP licenses are recognized at a point in time upon transfer of control of the IP license, and support services are recognized over the support period as a stand ready obligation to the customer. We are required to estimate total consideration expected to be received from contracts with customers. In some circumstances, the consideration expected to be received is variable based on the specific terms of the contract or based on our expectations of the term of the contract. Generally, we have not experienced significant returns or refunds to customers. These estimates require significant judgment and the change in these estimates could have an effect on our results of operations during the periods involved. Business Combinations We allocate the purchase price of acquired companies to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their estimated fair values on the acquisition date with the exception of contract assets and contract liabilities (deferred revenue) which are recognized and measured on the acquisition date in accordance with our "Revenue Recognition" policy in Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, as if we had originated the contracts. The excess of the fair value of the purchase price over the fair values of these net tangible and intangible assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Accounting for business combinations requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions including our estimates for intangible assets. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made are reasonable, they are based in part on historical experience, market conditions and information obtained from management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain. Examples of critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets we have acquired or may acquire in the future include, but are not limited to: • future expected cash flows from software license sales, subscriptions, support agreements, consulting contracts and acquired developed technologies and patents; • historical and expected customer attrition rates and anticipated growth in revenue from acquired customers; • estimated obsolescence rates used in valuing technology related intangible assets; • the expected use of the acquired assets; and • discount rates used to discount expected future cash flows to present value, which are typically derived from a weighted-average cost of capital analysis and adjusted to reflect inherent risks. 36 The fair value of the definite-lived intangibles was determined using variations of the income approach. For acquired existing technology, the fair value was determined by applying the multi-period excess earnings method under the income approach, which involves isolating the net earnings attributable to the asset being measured based on present value of the incremental after-tax cash flows (excess earnings) attributable solely to the asset over its remaining useful life. The economic useful life was determined based on historical technology obsolescence patterns and prospective technology developments. For acquisitions completed in fiscal 2022, we assumed technological obsolescence ranging from 6 to 10 years. The present value of operating cash flows from the existing technology was determined using discount rates ranging from approximately 10% to 30%. Customer relationships represent the fair value of the existing relationships with the acquired company’s customers. Their fair value was determined using the distributor method of the income approach, a variation of the multi-period excess earnings method. The distributor method relies upon market-based distributor data to estimate the excess profits associated with the asset over its remaining useful life. The economic useful life was determined based on historical customer turnover rates. Projected income from existing customer relationships considered customer retention rates ranging from 92.5% to 97.5%. The present value of operating cash flows from existing customers was determined using discount rates ranging from approximately 10% to 15%. We believe that our estimates and assumptions related to the fair value of acquired intangible assets are reasonable, but significant judgment is involved. Results of Operations The discussion of our consolidated results of operations includes year-over-year comparisons of fiscal 2022 changes compared to fiscal 2021. For a discussion of the fiscal 2021 changes compared to fiscal 2020, see the discussion in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2021, filed on December 13, 2021. Fiscal 2022 Financial Performance Summary Results of operations for fiscal 2022, compared to fiscal 2021, reflected the following: • Revenues were $5.1 billion, an increase of $877.3 million or 21%, due to higher revenue resulting from growth across all products and geographies. • Total cost of revenue and operating expenses were $3.9 billion, an increase of $450.1 million or 13%, primarily due to increases of $379.2 million in employee-related costs resulting from headcount increases through organic growth and acquisitions. • Operating income was $1.2 billion, an increase of $427.2 million or 58%, as revenue growth exceeded the growth in costs and expenses. Revenue Our revenues are generated from two business segments: the Semiconductor & System Design segment and the Software Integrity segment. See Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about our reportable segments and revenue by geographic regions. Further disaggregation of the revenues into various products and services within these two segments is summarized as follows: Semiconductor & System Design Segment This segment is comprised of the following: • EDA software includes digital, custom and FPGA IC design software, verification products and obligations to provide unspecified updates and support services. EDA products and services are typically sold through Technology Subscription License (TSL) arrangements that grant customers the right to access and use all of the licensed products at the outset of an arrangement; software updates are generally made available throughout the entire term of the arrangement. The duration of our TSL contracts is generally 3 years, though it may vary for specific arrangements. We have concluded that the software licenses in TSL contracts are not distinct from the obligation to provide unspecified software updates to the licensed software throughout the license term, because the multiple software licenses and support represent inputs to a single, combined offering, and timely, relevant software 37 updates are integral to maintaining the utility of the software licenses. We recognize revenue for the combined performance obligation under TSL contracts ratably over the term of the license. • IP & System Integration includes our DesignWare® IP portfolio and system-level products and services. These arrangements generally have two performance obligations which consist of transferring of the licensed IP and providing related support, which includes rights to technical support and software updates that are provided over the support term and are transferred to the customer over time. Revenue allocated to the IP licenses is recognized at a point in time upon the later of the delivery date or the beginning of the license period, and revenue allocated to support is recognized over the support term. Royalties are recognized as revenue in the quarter in which the applicable customer sells its products that incorporate our IP. Payments for IP contracts are generally received upon delivery of the IP. Revenue related to the customization of certain IP is recognized as “Professional Services.” • In the case of arrangements involving the sale of hardware products, we generally have two performance obligations. The first performance obligation is to transfer the hardware product, which includes software integral to the functionality of the hardware product. The second performance obligation is to provide maintenance on the hardware and its embedded software, which includes rights to technical support, hardware repairs and software updates that are all provided over the same term and have the same time-based pattern of transfer to the customer. The portion of the transaction price allocated to the hardware product is generally recognized as revenue at the time of shipment because the customer obtains control of the product at that point in time. We have concluded that control generally transfers at that point in time because the customer has the ability to direct the use of the asset and an obligation to pay for the hardware. The portion of the transaction price allocated to the maintenance obligation is recognized as revenue ratably over the maintenance term. • Revenue from Professional Service contracts is recognized over time, generally using costs incurred or hours expended to measure progress. We have a history of reasonably estimating project status and the costs necessary to complete projects. A number of internal and external factors can affect these estimates, including labor rates, utilization and efficiency variances and specification and testing requirement changes. Software Integrity Segment • We sell Software Integrity products in arrangements that provide customers the right to software licenses, maintenance updates and technical support. Over the term of these arrangements, the customer expects us to provide integral maintenance updates to the software licenses, which help customers protect their own software from new critical quality defects and potential security vulnerabilities. The licenses and maintenance updates serve together to fulfill our commitment to the customer as both work together to provide functionality to the customer and represent a combined performance obligation. We recognize revenue for the combined performance obligation over the term of the arrangement. Our customer arrangements can involve multiple products and various license rights, and our customers negotiate with us over many aspects of these arrangements. For example, they generally request a broader portfolio of solutions, support and services and seek more favorable terms such as expanded license usage, future purchase rights and other unique rights at an overall lower total cost. No single factor typically drives our customers’ buying decisions, and we compete on all fronts to serve customers in highly competitive markets. Customers generally negotiate the total value of the arrangement rather than just unit pricing or volumes. Total Revenue Our revenues are subject to fluctuations, primarily due to customer requirements including the timing and value of contract renewals. For example, we experience fluctuations in our revenues due to factors such as the timing of IP product sales, consulting projects, Flexible Spending Account (FSA) drawdowns, royalties, and hardware sales. As 38 revenues from IP products sales and hardware sales are recognized upfront, customer demand and timing requirements for such IP products and hardware could result in increased variability of our total revenues. Contracted but unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied performance obligations as of October 31, 2022 were $ 7.1 billion. The amount and composition of unsatisfied performance obligations will fluctuate period to period. We do not believe the amount of unsatisfied performance obligations is indicative of future sales or revenue, or that such obligations at the end of any given period correlates with actual sales performance of a particular geography or particular products and services. F or more information regarding our revenue as of October 31, 2022, including our contract balances as of such date, see Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . For fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021, revenues increased due to the continued organic growth of our business in all product groups and geographies. For a discussion of revenue by geographic areas, see Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Time-Based Products Revenue The increase in time-based products revenue for fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 was primarily attributable to an increase in TSL license revenue and higher renewals from arrangements booked in prior periods. Upfront Products Revenue Changes in upfront products revenue are generally attributable to normal fluctuations in the extent and timing of customer requirements, which can drive the amount of upfront orders and revenue in any particular period. The increase in upfront products revenue for fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 was primarily due to an increase in the sale of IP products and hardware products driven by higher demand from customers. Upfront products revenue as a percentage of total revenue will likely fluctuate based on the timing of IP products and hardware sales. Such fluctuations will continue to be impacted by the timing of shipments or FSA drawdowns due to customer requirements. Maintenance and Service Revenue The increase in maintenance revenue for fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 was primarily due to an increase in the volume of hardware and IP arrangements that include maintenance. The increase in professional services and other revenue for fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 was primarily due to an increase in the volume of IP consulting projects . 39 Cost of Revenue We divide cost of revenue into three categories: cost of products revenue, cost of maintenance and service revenue, and amortization of intangible assets. Cost of products revenue. Cost of products revenue includes costs related to products sold and software licensed, hardware-related costs, allocated operating costs related to product support and distribution, royalties paid to third-party vendors, and the amortization of capitalized software development costs. Cost of maintenance and service revenue. Cost of maintenance and service revenue includes costs to deliver our maintenance and consulting services, such as hotline and on-site support, production services and documentation of maintenance updates. Amortization of intangible assets. Amortization of intangible assets, included in cost of revenue, includes the amortization of core/developed technology and certain contract rights intangible assets. The increase in cost of revenue for fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 was primarily due to $102.7 million in employee-related costs as a result of headcount increases from organic growth and acquisitions, $51.7 million in hardware-related costs, $18.4 million in amortization of technology-related intangible assets, $16.4 million in costs to fulfill IP consulting arrangements, and $12.7 million in facility costs. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $11.5 million in the fair value of our executive deferred compensation plan assets. Operating Expenses Research and Development The increase in research and development expenses for fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 was primarily due to higher employee-related costs of $199.1 million as a result of headcount increases as we continue to expand and enhance our product portfolio, increases of $19.2 million in facility costs, and $15.5 million in consultant and contractor costs. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $86.5 million in the fair value of our executive deferred compensation plan assets. Sales and Marketing The increase in sales and marketing expenses for fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 was primarily due to increases of $64.1 million in employee-related costs due to headcount increases and higher sales commissions, $12.0 million in travel and marketing costs due to an increased number of in-person meetings and events, and $3.0 million in facility costs. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $25.5 million in the fair value of our executive deferred compensation plan assets. 40 General and Administrative The increase in general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 was primarily due to increases of $30.8 million in legal, consulting and other professional fees, $18.6 million in maintenance and depreciation expenses, and $13.3 million in personnel-related costs due to headcount increases from hiring. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $16.9 million in the fair value of our executive deferred compensation plan assets and bad debt recoveries of $15.9 million. Change in Fair Value of Deferred Compensation The income or loss arising from the change in fair value of our non-qualified deferred compensation plan obligation is recorded in cost of sales and each functional operating expense, with the offsetting change in the fair value of the related assets recorded in other income (expense), net. These assets are classified as trading securities. There is no impact on our net income from the fair value changes in our deferred compensation plan obligation and related assets. Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization of intangible assets included within operating expenses consists of the amortization of trademarks, trade names, and customer relationships related to acquisitions. The decrease in amortization of intangible assets for fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 was primarily due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized in fiscal 2022, partially offset by amortization expense related to intangible assets acquired during fiscal 2022 . Restructuring Charges In the third quarter of fiscal 2021, our management approved, committed and initiated a restructuring plan (the 2021 Plan) as part of a business reorganization. Total charges under the 2021 Plan consisting primarily of severance, retirement benefits, and lease abandonment costs, were $45.5 million, of which $33.4 million was incurred in fiscal 2021 and $12.1 million was incurred in fiscal 2022 . The 2021 Plan was substantially completed in the first quarter of fiscal 2022. The following is a summary of our restructuring liabilities: See Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information . 41 Other Income (Expense), Net The decrease in other income (expense) for fiscal 2022 as compared to fiscal 2021 was primarily due to the decrease in the fair value of our executive deferred compensation plan assets. Segment Operating Results We do not allocate certain operating expenses managed at a consolidated level to our reportable segments. These unallocated expenses consist primarily of stock-based compensation expense, amortization of intangible assets,  changes in the fair value of deferred compensation plan, restructuring, litigation and acquisition-related costs. See Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Semiconductor & System Design Segment The increase in adjusted operating income for fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 was primarily due to an increase in revenue from arrangements booked in prior periods. Software Integrity Segment The increase in adjusted operating income for fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 was primarily due to an increase in revenue from arrangements booked in prior periods. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2022 is 12.3%, which included a tax benefit of $61.5 million of U.S. federal research tax credit, a foreign derived intangible income (FDII) deduction of $38.9 million, and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $88.8 million. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2021 was 6.1%, which included a tax benefit of $45.5 million of U.S. federal research tax credit, a FDII deduction of $31.2 million, and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $94.0 million. The Tax Act provides an exemption from federal income taxes for distributions from foreign subsidiaries made after December 31, 2017 that were not subject to the one-time transition tax. We have provided for foreign withholding taxes on undistributed earnings of certain of our foreign subsidiaries to the extent such earnings are no longer considered to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. 42 In 2017, the Hungarian Tax Authority (the HTA) assessed withholding taxes of approximately $25.0 million and interest and penalties of $11.0 million, against our Hungary subsidiary (Synopsys Hungary). Synopsys Hungary contested the assessment with the Hungarian Administrative Court (Administrative Court). In 2019, as required under Hungarian law, Synopsys Hungary paid the assessment and recorded a tax expense due to an unrecognized tax benefit of $17.4 million, which is net of estimated U.S. foreign tax credits. The Administrative Court found against Synopsys Hungary, and we appealed to the Hungarian Supreme Court. During 2021, the Hungarian Supreme Court heard our appeal and remanded the case to the Administrative Court for further proceedings. The Administrative Court once again ruled against Synopsys Hungary, and we filed another appeal with the Hungarian Supreme Court. The Hungarian Supreme Court heard our appeal on January 27, 2022, vacated the lower court's decision and remanded th e case back to the Administrative Court for further proceedings . Hearings with the Administrative Court were held on June 30, 2022 and September 22, 2022. In response to a request by the Administrative Court we filed an additional brief on November 23, 2022. We expect a hearing to be scheduled in early 2023. See Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the provision for income taxes, the impacts related to the Tax Act, and the Hungarian audit . Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are funds generated from our business operations and funds that may be drawn down under our revolving credit and term loan facilities. As of October 31, 2022 , we held $1.6 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. We also held $2.3 million in restricted cash primarily associated with deposits for office leases. Our cash equivalents consisted primarily of taxable money market mutual funds, time deposits and highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less. Our short-term investments include U.S. government and municipal obligations, investment-grade available-for-sale debt and asset backed securities. We believe that the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong, with our global excess cash, and our cash equivalents, invested in banks and securities with a weighted-average credit rating exceeding AA. As of October 31, 2022, approximately $755.1 million of our cash and cash equivalents were domiciled in various foreign jurisdictions. We have provided for foreign withholding taxes on the undistributed earnings of certain of our foreign subsidiaries to the extent such earnings are no longer considered to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and sources of liquidity will be sufficient to satisfy our cash requirements and capital return program over at least the next 12 months. We are currently not aware of any trends or demands, commitments, events or uncertainties that will result in, or that are reasonably likely to result in, our liquidity increasing or decreasing in any material way that will impact our capital needs during or beyond the next 12 months. Our future cash requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, the expansion of our sales and marketing activities, and the timing and extent of our spending to support our research and development efforts. We also may invest in or acquire businesses, applications or technologies, or may further expand our board-authorized stock repurchase program, which may require the use of significant cash resources and/or additional financing. Cash Flows Cash Provided by Operating Activities We expect cash from our operating activities to fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including the timing of our billings and collections, our operating results, and the timing and amount of tax and other liability payments. Cash provided by our operations is dependent primarily upon the payment terms of our license agreements. We generally receive cash from upfront arrangements much sooner than from time-based products revenue, in which the license fee is typically paid either quarterly or annually over the term of the license. 43 The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily attributable to higher net income and higher accounts receivable collection, partially offset by timing of customer billings and higher disbursements for operations, including vendor and tax payments. Cash Used in Investing Activities The increase in cash used in investing activities was primarily due to higher cash paid for acquisitions of $126.4 million and higher purchases of property and equipment of $42.8 million, partially offset by higher proceeds from the sales and maturities of short-term investments of $80.8 million and lower purchases of short-term investments of $64.5 million. Cash Used in Financing Activities The increase in cash used in financing activities was primarily due to higher stock repurchases of $311.9 million, higher debt repayments of $48.8 million and higher taxes paid for net share settlements of $35.1 million, partially offset by higher proceeds from issuance of common stock of $27.2 million. Credit and Term Loan Facilities On January 22, 2021, we entered into a Fourth Extension and Amendment Agreement (the Fourth Amendment), which amended and restated our previous credit agreement, dated as of November 28, 2016 (as amended and restated, the Credit Agreement). Our outstanding borrowings under the previous credit agreement, which as of January 22, 2021 consisted of term loans in the aggregate principal amount of $97.5 million , were carried over under the Credit Agreement and fully paid on November 26, 2021. The Fourth Amendment extended the termination date of the existing $650.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the Revolver) from November 28, 2021 to January 22, 2024, which could be further extended at our option. The Credit Agreement also provides an uncommitted incremental loan facility of up to $150.0 million in the aggregate principal amount. The Credit Agreement contains financial covenants requiring us to maintain a maximum consolidated leverage ratio and a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio, as well as other non-financial covenants. As of October 31, 2022 , we were in compliance with all financial covenants. There was no outstanding balance under the Revolver as of October 31, 2022 and October 31, 2021. We expect our borrowings, if any, under the Revolver will fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Borrowings bear interest at a floating rate based on a margin over our choice of market observable base rates as defined in the Credit Agreement. As of October 31, 2022 , the Revolver bore interest at LIBOR +1% . In addition, commitment fees are payable on the Revolver at rates between 0.125% and 0.200% per year based on our leverage ratio on the daily amount of the revolving commitment. In July 2018, we entered into a 12-year 220.0 million Renminbi (approximately $33.0 million) credit agreement with a lender in China to support our facilities expansion. Borrowings bear interest at a floating rate based on the 5-year Loan Prime Rate plus 0.74%. As of October 31, 2022, we had a $20.8 million outstanding balance under the agreement. Stock Repurchase Program Our Board of Directors (the Board) previously approved a stock repurchase program (the Program) with authorization to purchase up to $1.0 billion of our common stock in December 2021. The Board approved a replenishment of the Program up to $1.5 billion in September 2022. During the fiscal year 2022, we repurchased 3.6 million shares of common stock at an average price of $314.51 per share for an aggregate purchase price of $1.1 billion. As of October 31, 2022, $1.4 billion remained available for future stock repurchases. The pace of our repurchase activity will depend on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for acquisitions, our debt repayment obligations, our stock price, and economic and market conditions. The IR Act was enacted in the United States on August 16, 2022. The IR Act imposes a 1% excise tax on the fair market value of stock repurchases made by covered corporations after December 31, 2022. The total taxable value of shares repurchased is reduced by the fair market value of any newly issued shares during the taxable year. We are assessing the potential impact of the stock repurchase excise tax. Based on our preliminary assessment, we do not expect a material impact on our overall capital allocation strategy or our consolidated financial statements. Risks related to the IR Act are described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors . 44 Contractual and Other Obligations Our material cash requirements include the following contractual and other obligations. Leases We have operating lease arrangements for office space, data center, equipment and other corporate assets. As of October 31, 2022 , we had lease payment obligations, net of immaterial sublease income, of $569.3 million, with $54.5 million payable within 12 months. Purchase Obligations Purchase obligations represent an estimate of all open purchase orders and contractual obligations in the ordinary course of business for which we have not received the goods or services. As of October 31, 2022 , we had $661.1 million of purchase obligations, with $367.4 million payable within 12 months. Although open purchase orders are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to the delivery of goods or performance of services. Term Loan Refer to "Credit and Term Loan Facilities” under Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information. Long Term Accrued Income Taxes As of October 31, 2022 , we had $18.8 million of long-term accrued income taxes which represent uncertain tax benefits. Currently, a reasonably reliable estimate of timing of payments related to uncertain tax benefits in individual years beyond fiscal 2022 cannot be made due to uncertainties in timing of the commencement and settlement of potential tax audits.