********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Risk Factor Summary Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: Industry Risks • Uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment, and its potential impact on the semiconductor and electronics industries, may negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. • The growth of our business depends primarily on the semiconductor and electronics industries. • We operate in highly competitive industries, and if we do not continue to meet our customers’ demand for innovative technology at lower costs, our products may not be competitive or may become obsolete. • We are subject to governmental export and import requirements that could subject us to liability and restrict our ability to sell our products and services, which could impair our ability to compete in international markets. • Consolidation among our customers and within the industries in which we operate, as well as our dependence on a relatively small number of large customers, may negatively impact our operating results. Business Operations Risks • The global nature of our operations exposes us to increased risks and compliance obligations. • Our operating results may fluctuate in the future, which may adversely affect our stock price. • We may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of the transactions we complete, or find suitable target businesses and technology to acquire. • Cybersecurity threats or other security breaches could compromise sensitive information belonging to us or our customers and could harm our business and our reputation. • If we fail to protect our proprietary technology, our business will be harmed. • We may not be successful in our AI initiatives, which could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. • If we fail to timely recruit and/or retain senior management and key employees globally, our business may be harmed. • We may pursue new product and technology initiatives or expand into adjacent markets, and if we fail to successfully carry out these initiatives, we could be adversely impacted. • We may have to invest more resources in research and development than anticipated, which could increase our operating expenses and negatively affect our operating results. • Product errors or defects could expose us to liability and harm our reputation and we could lose market share. • Our hardware products, which primarily consist of prototyping and emulation systems, subject us to distinct risks. • From time to time, we are subject to claims that our products infringe on third-party intellectual property rights. • We may not be able to continue to obtain licenses to third-party software and intellectual property on reasonable terms or at all, which may disrupt our business and harm our financial results. • Liquidity requirements in our U.S. operations may require us to raise cash in uncertain capital markets, which could negatively affect our financial condition. Risks Related to the Ansys Merger • We may fail to complete the Ansys Merger or may not complete it on the terms described herein or in our other filings with the SEC. • The Ansys Merger is subject to the receipt of governmental approvals that may impose conditions that could have an adverse effect on us or, if not obtained, could prevent completion of the Ansys Merger. • Failure to realize the benefits expected from the Ansys Merger could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. • As a result of the Ansys Merger, we anticipate that the scope and size of our operations and business will substantially change and will result in certain incremental risks to us, including increased competition. We may not realize the full expected benefits of the Ansys Merger. • Our significant debt may limit our financial flexibility following the Ansys Merger. 14 • The covenants contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness following the Ansys Merger may impose restrictions on us and certain of our subsidiaries that may affect our ability to operate our businesses. Legal and Regulatory Risks • Changes in tax laws and regulations or interpretations thereof, or any change in the application of existing laws and regulations may adversely affect our effective tax rates and financial results. • Our business is subject to evolving corporate governance and public disclosure regulations and expectations that could expose us to numerous risks. • We may be subject to litigation proceedings that could harm our business. General Risks • Catastrophic events and the effects of climate change, pandemics or other unexpected events may disrupt our business and harm our operating results. Factors that May Affect Future Results Descriptions of risks associated with our business are set forth below. Some of these risks are highlighted in the following discussion and in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , Legal Proceedings , Controls and Procedures and Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk of this Annual Report. The occurrence of any of these risks or additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and stock price. These risks and uncertainties could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. Investors should carefully consider all relevant risks before investing in our common stock. Industry Risks Uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment, and its potential impact on the semiconductor and electronics industries, may negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment, including the effects of, among other things, sustained global inflationary pressures and elevated interest rates, potential economic slowdowns or recessions, supply chain disruptions, geopolitical pressures, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and associated global economic conditions, have resulted in volatility in credit, equity and foreign currency markets. This uncertain macroeconomic environment could lead some of our customers to postpone their decision-making, decrease their spending and/or delay their payments to us. Such caution by customers could, among other things, limit our ability to maintain or increase our sales or recognize revenue from committed contracts. If these macroeconomic uncertainties persist and economic conditions continue to deteriorate, then the semiconductor and electronics industries could fail to grow. Additionally, uncertain macroeconomic conditions could also have the effect of increasing other risks and uncertainties facing our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Such risks that may be heightened by uncertain macroeconomic conditions include China’s stated policy of becoming a global leader in the semiconductor industry, which may lead to increased competition or further disruption of international trade relationships, including, but not limited to, additional government trade restrictions. For more on risks related to government export and import restrictions, see “ We are subject to governmental export and import requirements that could subject us to liability and restrict our ability to sell our products and services, which could impair our ability to compete in international markets. ” Adverse economic conditions affect demand for devices that our products help create, such as the ICs incorporated in personal computers, smartphones, automobiles, servers and more. Longer-term reduced demand for these or other products could result in reduced demand for design solutions and significant decreases in our average selling prices and product sales over time. Future economic downturns could also adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, if our customers or distributors build elevated inventory levels, we could experience a decrease in demand for our products. If any of these events or disruptions were to occur, the demand for our products and services could be adversely affected along with our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, due to our business model, the negative impact of these events or disruptions may not be immediately realized. 15 Further economic uncertainty could also adversely affect the banking and financial services industry and result in bank failures or credit downgrades of the banks we rely on for foreign currency forward contracts, credit and banking transactions, and deposit services, or cause them to default on their obligations. Additionally, the banking and financial services industries are subject to complex laws and are heavily regulated. There is uncertainty regarding how proposed, contemplated or future changes to the laws, policies and regulations governing the banking and financial services industry could affect our business. A deterioration of conditions in worldwide credit markets could limit our ability to obtain external financing to fund our operations, capital expenditures or pending acquisitions, such as the Ansys Merger. In addition, difficult economic conditions may also result in a higher rate of losses on our accounts receivable due to credit defaults. Any of the foregoing could cause adverse effects on our business, operating results and financial condition, and could cause our stock price to decline. The growth of our business depends primarily on the semiconductor and electronics industries. The growth of the EDA industry as a whole and our sales in our Design Automation and Design IP segments are primarily dependent on the semiconductor and electronics industries. A substantial portion of our business and revenue depends upon the commencement of new design projects by semiconductor manufacturers, systems companies and their customers. The increasing complexity of designs of SoCs, ICs, electronic systems and customers’ concerns about managing costs have previously led to, and in the future could lead to, a decrease in design starts and design activity in general. For example, in response to this increasing complexity, some customers have chosen to focus on one discrete phase of the design process or opt for less advanced, but less risky, manufacturing processes that may not require the most advanced EDA products. If growth in the semiconductor and electronics industries slows or stalls, including, among other things, due to sustained global inflationary pressures and elevated interest rates, a continued or worsening global supply chain disruption, geopolitical pressures or economic slowdowns or recessions then demand for our products and services could decrease and our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Additionally, as the EDA industry has matured, stronger competition has emerged from companies better able to compete as sole source vendors. This increased competition could cause our revenue growth rate to decline and exert downward pressure on our operating margins, which would have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Furthermore, the semiconductor and electronics industries have become increasingly complex and interconnected ecosystems. Many of our customers outsource the manufacturing of their semiconductor designs to foundries. Our customers also frequently incorporate third-party IP, whether provided by us or other vendors, into their designs to improve the efficiency of their design process. We work closely with major foundries to ensure that our EDA, IP and manufacturing solutions are compatible with their manufacturing processes. Similarly, we work closely with other major providers of semiconductor IP, particularly microprocessor IP, to optimize our EDA tools for use with their IP designs and to ensure that their IP and our own IP products work effectively together, as we may each provide for the design of separate components on the same chip. If we fail to optimize our EDA and IP solutions for use with major foundries’ manufacturing processes or major IP providers’ products, or if our access to such foundry processes or third-party IP products is hampered, then our solutions may become less desirable to our customers, resulting in an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We operate in highly competitive industries, and if we do not continue to meet our customers’ demand for innovative technology at lower costs, our products may not be competitive or may become obsolete. In our Design Automation segment, we compete against EDA vendors that offer a variety of products and services, such as Cadence Design Systems, Inc. and Siemens EDA. We also compete with other EDA vendors, including new entrants to the marketplace, that offer products focused on one or more discrete phases of the IC design process. Moreover, some of our customers internally develop design tools and capabilities that compete with our products. In our Design IP segment, we compete against a growing number of silicon IP providers as well as our customers’ internally developed IP. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive, with new competitors entering these markets both domestically and internationally. For example, China has implemented national policies favoring Chinese companies and has formed government-backed investment funds as it seeks to build independent EDA capabilities and compete internationally in the semiconductor industry. The demand for our products and services is dynamic and depends on a number of factors, including, among other things, demand for our customers’ products, design starts and our customers’ budgetary constraints. Technology in these industries evolves rapidly and is characterized by frequent product introductions and improvements as well as changes in industry standards and customer requirements. For example, the adoption of cloud computing and AI technologies may bring new demands and also challenges in terms of disruption to both our business models and existing technology offerings. Our efforts in 16 developing such new technology solutions, including, for example, our current efforts in creating cloud computing and AI solutions, may not succeed. Semiconductor device functionality requirements continually increase while feature widths decrease, which substantially increases the complexity, cost and risk of chip design and manufacturing. At the same time, our customers and potential customers continue to demand a lower total cost of design, which can lead to the consolidation of their purchases from one vendor. In order to succeed in this environment, we must successfully meet our customers’ technology requirements and increase the value of our products, while also striving to reduce their overall costs and our own operating costs. We compete principally on the basis of technology, product quality and features, license or usage terms, post-contract customer support, interoperability among products, and price and payment terms. Specifically, we believe the following competitive factors affect our success: • Our ability to anticipate and lead critical development cycles and technological shifts, innovate rapidly and efficiently, improve our existing software and hardware products, and successfully develop or acquire such new products; • Our ability to offer products that provide both a high level of integration into a comprehensive platform and a high level of individual product performance; • Our ability to enhance the value of our offerings through more favorable terms; • Our ability to manage an efficient supply chain to ensure hardware product availability; • Our ability to compete on the basis of payment terms; and • Our ability to provide engineering and design consulting for our products. If we fail to successfully manage any of these competitive factors, fail to successfully balance the conflicting demands for innovative technology and lower overall costs, or fail to address new competitive forces, our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. We are subject to governmental export and import requirements that could subject us to liability and restrict our ability to sell our products and services, which could impair our ability to compete in international markets. We are subject to export controls, laws and regulations that restrict selling, shipping or transmitting certain of our products and services and transferring certain of our technology outside the United States. These requirements also restrict domestic release of software and technology to certain foreign nationals. In addition, we are subject to customs and other import requirements that regulate imports that may be important for our business. Any failure to comply with the U.S. Export Administration Regulations or other U.S. or non-U.S. export requirements (collectively, the Export Regulations) could subject us to substantial civil and criminal penalties, including fines and the possible loss of the ability to engage in exporting and other international transactions. Due to the nature of our business and technology, governmental agencies from time to time review certain transactions for compliance with applicable Export Regulations. For example, we have received administrative subpoenas from the U.S. Bureau of Industry and Security (the BIS) requesting production of information and documentation relating to transactions with certain Chinese entities. We believe that the Export Regulations do not materially impact our business at this time, but we cannot predict the impact that additional regulatory changes may have on our business in the future. The United States has published significant changes to the Export Regulations with respect to China and Russia, and we anticipate additional changes to the Export Regulations in the future. For example, the United States government has implemented controls on advanced computing ICs, computer commodities that contain such ICs, and certain semiconductor manufacturing items, as well as controls on transactions involving items for supercomputer and semiconductor manufacturing end-users. These controls expand the scope of foreign-produced items subject to license requirements for certain entities on the U.S. government's Entity List. Future changes to the Export Regulations, including changes in the enforcement and scope of such regulations, may create delays in the introduction of our products or services in international markets or could prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products or services globally. In some cases, such changes could prevent the export or import of our products. 17 Consolidation among our customers and within the industries in which we operate, as well as our dependence on a relatively small number of large customers, may negatively impact our operating results. A number of business combinations and strategic partnerships among our customers in the semiconductor and electronics industries have occurred over the last several years, and more could occur in the future. Consolidation among our customers could lead to fewer customers or the loss of customers, increased customer bargaining power or reduced customer spending on products and services. Further, we depend on a relatively small number of large customers, and on such customers continuing to renew licenses and purchase additional products from us, for a large portion of our revenues. Consolidation among our customers, particularly our large customers, could also reduce demand for our products and services if customers streamline research and development or operations, or reduce or delay purchasing decisions. Our customers operate in highly competitive industries due to, among other factors, continued pressure from current and new competitors and technological change in their industries. Failure by our customers to successfully manage these competitive factors could adversely affect their business, operating results and financial condition, which could result in reduced spending on our products or services. Reduced customer spending or the loss of customers, particularly our large customers, could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we and our competitors may acquire businesses and technologies to complement and expand our respective product offerings. Consolidated competitors could have considerable financial resources and channel influence as well as broad geographic reach, which may enable them to be more competitive in, among other things, product differentiation, breadth of technology portfolio, pricing, marketing, services or support. Such consolidations or acquisitions could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Business Operations Risks The global nature of our operations exposes us to increased risks and compliance obligations. We derive roughly half of our revenue from sales outside the United States, and we expect our orders and revenue to continue to depend on sales to customers outside the U.S. We have also continually expanded our non-U.S. operations. This strategy requires us to recruit and retain qualified technical and managerial employees, manage multiple remote locations performing complex software development projects, and ensure intellectual property protection outside of the U.S. Our international operations and sales subject us to a number of increased risks, including, among others: • Economic slowdowns, recessions or uncertainty in financial markets, including, among other things, the impact of sustained global inflationary pressures and elevated interest rates; • Uncertain economic, legal and political conditions in China, Europe, the Middle East and other regions where we do business, including, for example, changes in China-Taiwan relations, regional or global military conflicts, and related sanctions and financial penalties imposed on participants in such conflicts; • Government trade restrictions, including tariffs, export controls or other trade barriers, and changes to existing trade arrangements, including the unknown impact of current and future U.S. and Chinese trade regulations; • Ineffective or weaker legal protection of intellectual property rights; • Difficulties in adapting to cultural differences in the conduct of business, which may include business practices in which we are prohibited from engaging by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other anti-corruption laws; and • Financial risks such as longer payment cycles, changes in currency exchange rates and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable. Furthermore, if any of the foreign economies in which we do business deteriorate or if we fail to effectively manage our global operations, our business and operating results will be harmed. There is inherent risk, based on the complex relationships between certain Asian countries such as China, where we derive a growing percentage of our revenue, and the United States, that political, diplomatic or military events could result in trade disruptions, including tariffs, trade embargoes, export restrictions and other trade barriers. A significant trade disruption, export restriction, or the establishment or increase of any trade barrier in any area where we do business could reduce customer demand and cause customers to search for substitute products and services, make our products and services more expensive or unavailable for customers, increase the cost of our products and services, have a negative impact on customer confidence and spending, make our products less competitive, or otherwise have an adverse impact on our backlog, future revenue and profits and our customers’ and suppliers’ business, operating results and financial 18 condition. For example and as described above, the ongoing geopolitical and economic uncertainty between the U.S. and China, the unknown impact of current and future U.S. and Chinese trade regulations, and other geopolitical risks with respect to China and Taiwan may cause disruptions in the markets and industries we serve and our supply chain, decreased demand from customers for products using our solutions or other disruptions, which could, directly or indirectly, materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. For more on risks related to government export and import restrictions see “ We are subject to governmental export and import requirements that could subject us to liability and restrict our ability to sell our products and services, which could impair our ability to compete in international markets. ” In response to the U.S. adopting tariffs and trade barriers or taking other actions, other countries may also adopt tariffs and trade barriers that could limit our ability to offer our products and services. Current and potential customers who are concerned or affected by such tariffs or restrictions may respond by developing their own products or replacing our solutions, which would have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, government or customer efforts, attitudes, laws or policies regarding technology independence may lead to non-U.S. customers favoring their domestic technology solutions that could compete with or replace our products, which would also have an adverse effect on our business. In addition to tariffs and other trade barriers, our global operations are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations such as those related to anti-corruption, tax, corporate governance, imports and exports, financial and other disclosures, privacy and labor relations. These laws and regulations are complex and may have differing or conflicting legal standards, making compliance difficult and costly. In addition, there is uncertainty regarding how proposed, contemplated or future changes to these complex laws and regulations could affect our business. We may incur substantial expense in complying with the new obligations to be imposed by these laws and regulations, and we may be required to make significant changes in our business operations, all of which may adversely affect our revenues and our business overall. If we violate these laws and regulations, we could be subject to fines, penalties or criminal sanctions, and may be prohibited from conducting business in one or more countries. Any violation individually or in the aggregate could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Our financial results are also affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. A weakening U.S. dollar relative to other currencies increases expenses of our foreign subsidiaries when they are translated into U.S. dollars in our consolidated statements of income. Likewise, a strengthening U.S. dollar relative to other currencies, including the renminbi or Yen, reduces revenue of our foreign subsidiaries upon translation and consolidation. Exchange rates are subject to significant and rapid fluctuations due to a number of factors, including interest rate changes and political and economic uncertainty. Therefore, we cannot predict the prospective impact of exchange rate fluctuations. We may be unable to hedge all of our foreign currency risk, which could have a negative impact on our operating results. Our operating results may fluctuate in the future, which may adversely affect our stock price. Our operating results are subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations, which may adversely affect our stock price. Our historical results should not be viewed as indicative of our future performance due to these periodic fluctuations. Many factors have in the past and may in the future cause our backlog, revenue or earnings to fluctuate, including, among other things: • Changes in demand for our products and services—especially products, such as hardware, generating upfront revenue—due to fluctuations in demand for our customers’ products and due to constraints in our customers’ budgets for research and development as well as EDA and IP products and services; • Changes in demand for our products due to customers reducing their expenditures, which may be a result of customer cost-cutting measures or insolvency or bankruptcy, sustained global inflationary pressures and elevated interest rates or other reasons; • Product competition in the EDA, IP or semiconductor industries, which can change rapidly due to industry or customer consolidation and technological innovation; • Our ability to innovate and introduce new products and services or effectively integrate products and technologies that we acquire; • Failures or delays in completing sales due to our lengthy sales cycle, which often includes a substantial customer evaluation and approval process because of the complexity of our products and services; • Our ability to implement effective cost control measures; 19 • Our dependence on a relatively small number of large customers, and on such customers continuing to renew licenses and purchase additional products from us, for a large portion of our revenue; • Changes to the amount, composition and valuation of, and any impairments to or write-offs of, our assets or strategic investments; • Changes in the mix of our products sold, as increased sales of our products with lower gross margins, such as our hardware products, may reduce our overall margins; • Expenses related to our acquisition and integration of businesses and technologies, including our expenses related to the Ansys Merger; • Changes in tax rules, as well as changes to our effective tax rate, including the tax effects of infrequent or unusual transactions and tax audit settlements; • Delays, increased costs or quality issues resulting from our reliance on third parties to manufacture our hardware products, which includes a sole supplier for certain hardware components; • Natural variability in the timing of IP drawdowns, which can be difficult to predict; • General economic and political conditions that affect the semiconductor and electronics industries, such as disruptions to international trade relationships, including tariffs, changes in Export Regulations, or other trade barriers affecting our or our suppliers’ products; and • Changes in accounting standards, which may impact the way we recognize our revenue and costs and impact our earnings. The timing of revenue recognition may also cause our revenue and earnings to fluctuate. The timing of revenue recognition is affected by factors including: • Cancellations or changes in levels of orders or the mix between upfront products revenue and time-based products revenue; • Delay of one or more orders for a particular period, particularly orders generating upfront products revenue, such as hardware; • Delay in the completion of professional services projects that require significant modification or customization and are accounted for using the percentage of completion method; • Delay in the completion and delivery of IP products in development as to which customers have paid for early access; • Customer contract amendments or renewals that provide discounts or defer revenue to later periods; and • The levels of our hardware and IP revenues, which are generally recognized upfront and are primarily dependent upon our ability to provide the latest technology and meet customer requirements. These factors, or any other factors or risks discussed herein, could negatively impact our backlog, revenue or earnings and cause our stock price to decline. Additionally, our results may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, or such analysts may change their recommendation regarding our stock, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our stock price has been, and may continue to be, volatile, which may make it more difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares at a time or a price that is favorable to them. We may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of the transactions we complete, or find suitable target businesses and technology to acquire. Acquisitions and strategic investments are an important part of our growth strategy. We have completed a significant number of acquisitions in recent years and are currently anticipating the closing of the Ansys Merger in the first half of calendar year 2025. We expect to make additional acquisitions and strategic investments in the future, but we may not find suitable acquisition or investment targets, or we may not be able to consummate desired acquisitions or investments due to, among other things, financial constraints, unfavorable credit markets, commercially unacceptable terms, failure to obtain regulatory approvals, competitive bid dynamics or other risks, which could harm our operating results. Any acquisitions and strategic investments we may undertake, including the Ansys Merger, are difficult, time-consuming, and pose a number of risks, including, but not limited to: • Potential negative impact on our net income resulting from acquisition or investment-related costs or on our earnings per share; • Failure of acquired products to achieve projected sales; • Problems in integrating the acquired products with our products; 20 • Difficulties entering into new markets in which we are inexperienced or our competitors have stronger positions; • Potential downward pressure on operating margins due to lower operating margins of acquired businesses, increased headcount costs, and other expenses associated with adding and supporting new products; • Difficulties in retaining and integrating key employees; • Substantial reductions of our cash resources and/or the incurrence of debt, which may be at higher than anticipated interest rates; • Failure to realize expected synergies or cost savings; • Difficulties in integrating or expanding sales, marketing and distribution functions and administrative systems, including IT and human resources systems; • Dilution of our current stockholders through the issuance of common stock as a part of transaction consideration; • Difficulties in negotiating, governing and realizing value from strategic investments; • Assumption of unknown liabilities, including tax, litigation, cybersecurity and commercial-related risks, and the related expenses and diversion of resources; • Incurrence of costs and use of additional resources to remedy issues identified prior to or after an acquisition; • Disruption of ongoing business operations, including diversion of management’s attention and uncertainty for employees and customers, particularly during the post-acquisition integration process; • Potential negative impacts on our relationships with customers, distributors and business partners; • Exposure to new operational risks, regulations and business customs to the extent acquired businesses are located in regions where we are not currently conducting business; • The need to implement controls, processes and policies appropriate for a public company at acquired companies that may have previously lacked such controls, processes and policies in areas such as cybersecurity, IT, privacy and more; and • Requirements imposed by government regulators in connection with their review of an acquisition, including required divestitures or restrictions on the conduct of our business or the acquired business. In addition, current and future changes to the U.S. and foreign regulatory approval processes and requirements related to acquisitions, including the Ansys Merger, may cause approvals to take longer than anticipated, not be forthcoming or contain burdensome conditions, which may prevent our planned transactions or jeopardize, delay or reduce the anticipated benefits of such transactions, and impede the execution of our business strategy. We have also divested and may in the future divest certain product lines or technologies that no longer fit our long-term strategies. Divestitures may adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition if we are unable to achieve the anticipated benefits or cost savings from such divestitures, or if we are unable to offset impacts from the loss of revenue associated with the divested product lines or technologies. For example, if we sell or otherwise dispose of certain product lines or assets, we may be unable to do so on satisfactory terms within our anticipated timeframe or at all. Further, whether such divestitures are ultimately consummated or not, their pendency could have a number of negative effects on our current business, including disrupting our regular operations, diverting the attention of our workforce and management team and increasing undesired workforce turnover. It could also disrupt existing business relationships, make it harder to develop new business relationships, or otherwise negatively impact the way that we operate our business. If we do not manage the foregoing risks, the transactions that we complete or are unable to complete, including the Ansys Merger and the Optical Solutions Divestiture (as defined below), may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Cybersecurity threats or other security breaches could compromise sensitive information belonging to us or our customers and could harm our business and our reputation. We store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, and personal information, in our data centers, on our networks or on the cloud. In addition, our operations depend upon our information technology (IT) systems. We maintain a variety of information security policies, procedures, and controls to protect our business and proprietary information, prevent data loss and other security breaches and incidents, keep our IT systems operational and reduce the impact of a security breach or 21 incident, but these security measures cannot provide and have not provided absolute security. In the normal course of business, our systems are and have been the target of malicious cyberattack attempts and have been and may be subject to compromise due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions that have and could result in unauthorized disclosure or loss of sensitive information. To date, we have not identified material cyber security incidents or incurred any material expenses with any incidents. However, any breach or compromise could adversely impact our business and operations, expose us or our customers to litigation, investigations, loss of data, increase costs, or result in loss of customer confidence and damage to our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business and our ability to sell our products and services. Industry incidences of cyberattacks and other cybersecurity breaches have increased and are likely to continue to increase. We are using an increasing number of third-party software solutions, including cloud-based solutions, which increase potential threat vectors, such as by exploitation of misconfigurations or vulnerabilities.  We also use third-party vendors that provide software or hardware, have access to our network, and/or store sensitive data, and these third parties are subject to their own cybersecurity threats. Our standard vendor terms and conditions include provisions requiring the use of appropriate security measures to prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of our data, as well as other safeguards. Despite these measures, there is no guarantee that a compromise of our third-party vendors will not occur and in turn result in a compromise of our own IT systems or data. In addition, if we select a vendor that uses cloud storage as part of their service or product offerings, or if we are selected as a vendor for our cloud-based solutions, our proprietary information could be misappropriated by third parties despite our attempts to validate the security of such services.  Many employees continue to work remotely based on a hybrid work model, which magnifies the importance of maintaining the integrity of our remote access security measures. We also periodically acquire new businesses with less mature security programs, and it takes time to align their security practices to meet our information security policies, procedures and controls. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to networks or to sabotage systems of companies such as ours change frequently, increasingly leverage technologies such as AI, and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. We may be unable to anticipate these emerging techniques, react in a timely manner, or implement adequate preventative measures, or we may not have sufficient logging available to fully investigate the incident. Our security measures vary in maturity across the business and may be and have been circumvented. For example, we have identified instances where employees have used non-approved applications for business purposes, some of which do not meet our security standards. In addition, we discovered unauthorized third-party access to our products and product license files hosted on our SolvNet Plus customer license and product delivery system in 2015. Any security breach of our own or a third-party vendor’s systems could cause us to be non-compliant with applicable laws or regulations, subject us to legal claims or proceedings, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, any of which could adversely affect our business and our ability to sell our products and services. Our software products and hosted solutions are also targeted by hackers and may be compromised by, among other things, phishing, exploits of our code or our system configurations, malicious code such as viruses and worms, distributed denial-of-service attacks, sophisticated attacks conducted or sponsored by nation-states, advanced persistent threat intrusions, ransomware and other malware. We leverage many security best practices throughout the software development lifecycle, but our security development practices vary in maturity across the business and may not be effective against all cybersecurity threats. Furthermore, due to geopolitical incidents, including regional military conflicts, state-supported and geopolitical-related cybersecurity incidents against companies such as ours may increase. Attacks on our products could potentially disrupt the proper functioning of our software, cause errors in the output of our customers’ work, allow unauthorized access to our or our customers’ proprietary information or cause other destructive outcomes. If we fail to protect our proprietary technology, our business will be harmed. Our success depends in part upon protecting our proprietary technology. Our efforts to protect our technology may be costly and unsuccessful. We rely on agreements with customers, employees and other third parties as well as intellectual property laws worldwide to protect our proprietary technology. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Additionally, despite our measures to prevent piracy, other parties may attempt to illegally copy or use our products, which could result in lost revenue if their efforts are successful. Some foreign countries do not currently provide effective legal protection for intellectual property and our ability to prevent the unauthorized use of our products in those countries is therefore limited. Our trade secrets may also be stolen, otherwise become known, or be independently developed by competitors. 22 From time to time, we may need to commence litigation or other legal proceedings in order to assert claims of infringement of our intellectual property, defend our products from piracy, protect our trade secrets or know-how, or determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the propriety rights of others. If we do not obtain or maintain appropriate patent, copyright or trade secret protection for any reason, or cannot fully defend our intellectual property rights in certain jurisdictions, our business and operating results would be harmed. In addition, intellectual property litigation is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Legal fees related to such litigation will increase our operating expenses and may reduce our net income. We may not be successful in our AI initiatives, which could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. We have incorporated, and are continuing to develop and deploy, AI into our products and the operations of our business. While these AI initiatives can present significant benefits, the AI landscape is rapidly evolving and may create risks and challenges for our business. If we fail to develop and timely offer products with AI features, if such products fail to meet our customers’ demands, if these products fail to operate as expected, or if our competitors incorporate AI into their products more quickly or more successfully than we do, we may experience brand or reputational harm and lose our competitive position, our products may become obsolete, and our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected. While AI technology may drive future growth in our business, worldwide markets for AI-enabled products may not develop in the manner or time periods we anticipate, or at all. If domestic or global economies worsen, overall spending on the development of AI-related products may decrease, which would adversely impact demand for our products in these markets. Even if the demand for AI-enabled products develops in the manner or in the time periods we anticipate, if we do not have timely, competitively priced, market-accepted products available to meet our customers’ needs to develop products for the AI markets, we may miss a significant opportunity and our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, because the markets for AI-related products are still emerging, demand for these products may be unpredictable and may vary significantly from one period to another. The technologies underlying AI and its uses are expected to be subject to new laws and regulations or new applications of existing laws and regulations, including in the areas of intellectual property, privacy, data protection and cybersecurity, among others. In addition, unfavorable developments with evolving laws and regulations affecting AI-related products may limit global adoption, impede our strategy and negatively impact our long-term expectations in this area. For example, there is significant uncertainty in the U.S. courts as to how AI technologies affect IP ownership, including copyright protections, and the use of AI-related technology in the development of our products or implementation of AI features in our products could expose us or our customers to claims of copyright infringement or misappropriation. We may not be able to anticipate how to respond to or comply with these rapidly evolving frameworks, and we may need to expend resources to adjust our offerings in certain jurisdictions if the legal frameworks are inconsistent across jurisdictions. The cost of complying with such frameworks could be significant and may increase our operating expenses. Because AI technology is highly complex and rapidly developing, it is not possible to predict all legal, operational or technological risks that may arise relating to the use of AI. If we fail to timely recruit and/or retain senior management and key employees globally, our business may be harmed. We depend in large part upon the services of our senior management team and key employees to drive our future success, and certain of these personnel depart our company from time to time, with the frequency and number of such departures varying widely. For example, we have in the past experienced significant changes to our executive leadership team due to planned succession and other departures. The departure of key employees could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including, among other things, adversely affecting the timeliness of our product releases, the successful implementation and completion of our initiatives, the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, and our business, operating results and financial condition. To be successful, we must also attract senior management and key employees who join us organically and through acquisitions, such as the Ansys Merger. There are a limited number of qualified engineers. Competition for these individuals and other qualified employees is intense and has increased globally, including in major markets such as Asia. Our employees are often recruited aggressively by our competitors and our customers worldwide. Any failure to recruit and/or retain senior management and key employees could harm our business, operating results and 23 financial condition. Additionally, efforts to recruit such employees could be costly and negatively impact our operating expenses. We issue equity awards from employee equity plans as a key component of our overall compensation. We face pressure to limit the use of such equity-based compensation due to dilutive effects on stockholders. If we are unable to offer attractive compensation packages in the future, it could limit our ability to attract and retain senior management and key employees. We may pursue new product and technology initiatives or expand into adjacent markets, and if we fail to successfully carry out these initiatives, we could be adversely impacted. As part of the evolution of our business, we have made substantial investments to develop new products and enhancements to existing products through our acquisitions and research and development efforts. If we are unable to anticipate technological changes in our industry by introducing new or enhanced products in a timely and cost-effective manner, or if we fail to introduce products that meet market demand, we may lose our competitive position, our products may become obsolete, and our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected. Additionally, we have in the past and may in the future invest in efforts to expand into adjacent markets. These efforts may not be successful due to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to: • Attract a new customer base, including in industries in which we have less experience; • Successfully develop new sales and marketing strategies to meet customer requirements; • Accurately predict, prepare for and promptly respond to technological developments in new fields; • Compete with new and existing competitors, many of which may have more financial resources, industry experience, brand recognition, relevant intellectual property rights or established customer relationships than we do; • Balance our investment in adjacent markets with investment in our existing products and services; and • Attract and retain employees with expertise in new fields. Difficulties in any of our new product development efforts or our efforts to enter adjacent markets, including as a result of delays or disruptions, or export control restrictions, could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may have to invest more resources in research and development than anticipated, which could increase our operating expenses and negatively affect our operating results. We devote substantial resources to research and development. We may be required to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated due to certain competitive factors, including, among others, the emergence of new competitors, technological advances in the semiconductor industry or by competitors, our acquisitions or our entry into new markets. If we are required to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated without a corresponding increase in revenue, our operating results could decline. If customers reduce or slow the need to upgrade or enhance their product offerings, our revenue and operating results may be adversely affected. Additionally, our periodic research and development expenses may be independent of our level of revenue, which could negatively impact our financial results. New products may not adequately address the changing needs of the marketplace. New software products may contain undetected errors, defects or vulnerabilities. The occurrence of any defects or errors in our products could result in lost or delayed market acceptance and sales of our products, delays in payment by customers, loss of customers or market share, product returns, damage to our reputation, diversion of our resources, increased service and warranty expenses or financial concessions, increased insurance costs and potential liability for damages. Finally, there can be no guarantee that our research and development investments will result in products that create additional revenue. Product errors or defects could expose us to liability and harm our reputation and we could lose market share. Software products frequently contain errors or defects, especially when first introduced, when new versions are released, or when integrated with technologies developed by acquired companies. Product errors, including those resulting from third-party suppliers, could affect the performance or interoperability of our products, could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products and could adversely affect market acceptance or perception of our products. In addition, any allegations of manufacturability issues resulting from use of our IP 24 products could, even if untrue, adversely affect our reputation and our customers’ willingness to license IP products from us. Any such errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products or allegations of unsatisfactory performance could cause us to lose customers, increase our service costs, subject us to liability for damages and divert our resources from other tasks, any one of which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our hardware products, which primarily consist of prototyping and emulation systems, subject us to distinct risks. The growth in sales of our hardware products subjects us to risks, including, but not limited to: • Increased dependence on a sole supplier for certain hardware components, which may reduce our control over product quality and pricing and may lead to delays in production and delivery of our hardware products, should our supplier fail to deliver sufficient quantities of acceptable components in a timely fashion; • Increasingly variable revenue and less predictable revenue forecasts, due to fluctuations in hardware revenue, which is recognized upfront upon shipment, as opposed to most sales of software products for which revenue is recognized over time; • Potential reductions in overall margins, as the gross margin for our hardware products, is typically lower than those of our software products; • Longer sales cycles, which create risks of insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory and variations in inventory valuation, which can adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition; • Decreases or delays in customer purchases in favor of next-generation releases or competitive products, which may lead to excess or obsolete inventory or require us to discount our older hardware products; • Longer warranty periods than those of our software products, which may require us to replace hardware components under warranty, thus increasing our costs; and • Potential impacts on our supply chain, including the effects of sustained global inflationary pressures and elevated interest rates, or global semiconductor shortages. From time to time, we are subject to claims that our products infringe on third-party intellectual property rights. We are from time to time subject to claims alleging our infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, including patent rights. Under our customer agreements and other license agreements, we agree in many cases to indemnify our customers if our products are alleged to infringe on a third party’s intellectual property rights. Infringement claims have in the past and could in the future result in costly and time-consuming litigation, require us to enter into royalty arrangements, subject us to damages or injunctions restricting our sale of products, invalidate a patent or family of patents, require us to refund license fees to our customers or to forgo future payments, or require us to redesign certain of our products, any one of which could harm our business and operating results. We may not be able to continue to obtain licenses to third-party software and intellectual property on reasonable terms or at all, which may disrupt our business and harm our financial results. We license third-party software and other intellectual property for use in product research and development and, in several instances, for inclusion in our products. We also license third-party software, including the software of our competitors, to test the interoperability of our products with other industry products and in connection with our professional services. These licenses may need to be renegotiated or renewed from time to time, or we may need to obtain new licenses in the future. Third parties may stop adequately supporting or maintaining their technology, or they or their technology may be acquired by our competitors. If we are unable to obtain licenses to these third-party software and intellectual property on reasonable terms or at all, we may not be able to sell the affected products, our customers’ use of the products may be interrupted, or our product development processes and professional services offerings may be disrupted, which could in turn harm our financial results, our customers, and our reputation. The inclusion of third-party intellectual property in our products can also subject us and our customers to infringement claims. We may not be able to sufficiently limit our potential liability contractually. Regardless of outcome, infringement claims may require us to use significant resources and may divert management’s attention from the operation of our business. 25 Some of our products and technology, including those we acquire, have in the past and may in the future include software licensed under open source licenses. Some open source licenses could require us, under certain circumstances, to make available or grant licenses to any modifications or derivative works we create based on the open source software. The risks associated with open source usage may not be eliminated despite our best efforts and may, if not properly addressed, result in unanticipated obligations that harm our business. Liquidity requirements in our U.S. operations may require us to raise cash in uncertain capital markets, which could negatively affect our financial condition. We expect that the pending Ansys Merger is likely to result in a material increase in our debt and liquidity needs that will impact our capital needs. We anticipate that the funds needed to fund the cash portion of the Ansys Merger consideration and to pay related transaction fees and expenses will be derived from a combination of available cash on hand and third-party debt financing. As of October 31, 2024, approximately 24% of our worldwide cash and cash equivalents balance is held by our international subsidiaries. We intend to fund the Ansys Merger, pay related transaction fees and expenses and meet our U.S. cash spending needs primarily through our existing U.S. cash balances, ongoing U.S. cash flows and third-party debt financing, which will include a combination of available credit under our Term Loan Agreement, Revolving Credit Agreement, the Bridge Commitment and/or one or more issuances of senior unsecured notes. Our ability to obtain any such new debt financing will depend on, among other factors, prevailing market conditions and other factors beyond our control. We may be required to incur debt at higher than anticipated interest rates, access other funding sources or repatriate cash, any of which could negatively affect our operating results, capital structure or the market price of our common stock. Risks Related to the Ansys Merger We may fail to complete the Ansys Merger or may not complete it on the terms described herein or in our other filings with the SEC. It is currently anticipated that we will complete the Ansys Merger in the first half of calendar year 2025. The Ansys Merger is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of customary closing conditions, including, among other things, the clearance of the Ansys Merger under certain antitrust and foreign investment regimes, and the continued effectiveness of the registration statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-277912) filed by us on March 14, 2024 and declared effective by the SEC on April 17, 2024 . As a result, the possible timing and likelihood of completion are uncertain and, accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Ansys Merger will be completed on the anticipated schedule, if at all. Any delay in completing the acquisition could cause us not to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits when expected, if at all. If the Ansys Merger is not completed, we could be subject to a number of risks that may adversely affect our business and operating results, including, among other things: • our stock price could decline to the extent it reflects an assumption that we will complete the Ansys Merger; • our incurrence of significant acquisition costs that we would be unable to recoup; • under certain specified circumstances we could be required to pay Ansys a termination fee of $1.5 billion; and • negative publicity and other negative impacts resulting from failure to complete the Ansys Merger. The Ansys Merger is subject to the receipt of governmental approvals that may impose conditions that could have an adverse effect on us or, if not obtained, could prevent completion of the Ansys Merger. Completion of the Ansys Merger is conditioned upon the receipt of governmental approvals, including certain antitrust and foreign investment approvals. There can be no assurance that these approvals will be obtained and that the other conditions to completing the Ansys Merger will be satisfied. In addition, the governmental authorities from which these approvals are required may impose conditions on the completion of the Ansys Merger or require changes to the terms of the Ansys Merger or agreements to be entered into in connection with the Ansys Merger. For example, following the determination that the sale of our Optical Solutions Group is a necessary step towards obtaining governmental approval of and successfully closing the Ansys Merger, we recently signed a definitive agreement for the sale of our Optical Solutions Group to Keysight Technologies, Inc. (the Optical Solutions Divestiture). For risks relating to the divestiture of certain product lines or technologies, see “ We may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of the transactions we complete, or find suitable target businesses and technology to acquire .” Such conditions or changes and the process of obtaining these approvals, or delay in the consummation of any necessary divestitures or other sales transactions, could have the effect of delaying or 26 impeding completion of the Ansys Merger or of imposing additional costs or limitations on us following completion of the Ansys Merger, any of which might have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Failure to realize the benefits expected from the Ansys Merger could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The anticipated benefits we expect from the Ansys Merger are based on projections and assumptions about our combined business with Ansys, which may not materialize as expected or which may prove to be inaccurate. Our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected if we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits from the Ansys Merger on a timely basis, if at all, including, among other things, realizing the anticipated cost and revenue synergies from the Ansys Merger in the anticipated amounts or within the anticipated timeframes or cost expectations, if at all. Achieving the benefits of the Ansys Merger will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the business and operations of Ansys successfully and efficiently with our business. The challenges involved in this integration, which may be complex and time-consuming, include, among others, the following: • avoiding business disruptions, preserving customer and other important relationships of Ansys and attracting new business and operational relationships; • coordinating and integrating independent research and development and engineering teams across technologies and product platforms to enhance product development while reducing costs; • integrating financial forecasting and controls, procedures and reporting cycles; • consolidating and integrating corporate, IT, cybersecurity, finance and administrative infrastructures; • coordinating branding, sales and marketing efforts to effectively position the combined company’s capabilities and the direction of product development; • integrating Ansys’ systems, operations and product lines; • meeting obligations that we will have to counterparties of Ansys that arise as a result of the change in control of Ansys; and • integrating employees and related HR systems and benefits, maintaining employee productivity and retaining key employees. If we do not successfully manage these issues and the other challenges inherent in integrating an acquired business, then we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of the Ansys Merger on our anticipated timeframe, if at all, and our business, revenue, expenses, operating results, financial condition and stock price could be materially adversely affected. The successful completion of the Ansys Merger and the integration of the Ansys business has required and will continue to require significant management attention both before and after the completion of the Ansys Merger, and may divert the attention of management from our normal business operations. As a result of the Ansys Merger, we anticipate that the scope and size of our operations and business will substantially change and will result in certain incremental risks to us, including increased competition. We may not realize the full expected benefits of the Ansys Merger . We anticipate that the Ansys Merger will substantially expand the scope and size of our business by adding substantial assets and operations to our existing business. The anticipated future growth of our business will impose significant added responsibilities on management, including, among other things, the need to identify, recruit, train and integrate additional employees. Our senior management’s attention may be diverted from the management of our business and its daily operations to the completion of the Ansys Merger and the integration of the assets acquired in the Ansys Merger. Further, the Ansys Merger could also create uncertainty for our or Ansys' employees and customers, particularly during the post-acquisition integration process. It could also disrupt existing business relationships, make it more difficult to develop new business relationships, or otherwise negatively impact the way that we operate our business. We also anticipate that the Ansys Merger will result in increased competition. Ansys operates in a highly competitive industry, and is facing increasing competition for its products and services, in particular in simulation and analysis. Additionally, both Ansys and Synopsys compete with companies that increasingly provide integrated EDA and simulation and analysis offerings. These competitive pressures may result in decreased sales volumes, price reductions and/or increased operating costs, and could result in lower revenues, margins and net income for the combined company. These impacts could also result in our failure to realize expected synergies or cost savings as a result of the Ansys Merger. For more on risks relating to competition in the EDA industry and other industries, see 27 “ The growth of our business depends primarily on the semiconductor and electronics industries ” and “ We operate in highly competitive industries, and if we do not continue to meet our customers’ demand for innovative technology at lower costs, our products may not be competitive or may become obsolete .” Our ability to manage our business and growth will require us to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. We may also encounter risks, costs and expenses associated with any undisclosed or other unanticipated liabilities and use more cash and other financial resources on integration and implementation activities than we expect. We may not be able to integrate the Ansys business into our existing operations on our anticipated timelines or realize the full expected economic benefits of the Ansys Merger, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the completion of the Ansys Merger may heighten the potential adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition described elsewhere in the Risk Factors in this Annual Report. Our significant debt may limit our financial flexibility following the Ansys Merger. We expect to incur a substantial amount of debt in connection with the Ansys Merger and have entered into the Bridge Commitment Letter and the Term Loan Agreement for the purpose of financing a portion of the cash consideration to be paid in the Ansys Merger and paying related fees and expenses in connection with the Ansys Merger and the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. We expect to use a portion of the proceeds from the facilities to repay Ansys’ existing credit facility substantially concurrently with the completion of the Ansys Merger. Our ability to obtain any such new debt financing will depend on, among other factors, prevailing market conditions and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain new debt financing on terms acceptable to us or at all, and any such failure could materially adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Our obligation to complete the Ansys Merger is not conditioned upon the receipt of any financing. Following the Ansys Merger, the substantial indebtedness incurred in connection with the Ansys Merger could have adverse effects on our business, operating results and financial condition, including, among other things: • increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with less indebtedness; • increasing our interest expense and potentially requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash to fund our business needs; • limiting our ability to return equity through our stock repurchase program or pay dividends to our stockholders; and • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds in the future to fund growth, acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness following the Ansys Merger will depend on, among other factors, our financial position and performance as well as prevailing market conditions and other factors beyond our control. Our combined business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures and meet other liquidity needs. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital or debt refinancing on terms that may be onerous. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations, which, if not cured or waived, could accelerate the repayment obligations under all of our outstanding debt, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. In addition, the level and quality of our earnings, operations, business and management, among other things, will impact the determination of our credit ratings by credit rating agencies. A decrease in the ratings assigned to us may negatively impact our access to the debt capital markets and increase our cost of borrowing. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any future required financing on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the current credit worthiness or prospective credit rating of the combined company. Any actual or anticipated changes, or adverse conditions in the debt capital markets, could: 28 • adversely affect the trading price of, or market for, our debt securities; • increase interest expense under our credit facilities; • increase the cost of, and adversely affect our ability to refinance, our existing debt; and • adversely affect our ability to raise additional debt. The covenants contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness following the Ansys Merger may impose restrictions on us and certain of our subsidiaries that may affect our ability to operate our businesses. The agreements that will govern our indebtedness following the Ansys Merger, including any indebtedness to be incurred pursuant to the Bridge Commitment Letter (or any indebtedness that may refinance or replace the Bridge Commitment as set forth in the Bridge Commitment Letter) and the Term Loan Agreement, will contain various affirmative and negative covenants. Such covenants may, subject to certain significant exceptions, restrict our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries after the Ansys Merger to, among other things, engage in mergers, consolidations and acquisitions, grant liens and incur debt at subsidiaries. In addition, such agreements also contain financial covenants that will require us to maintain certain financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these provisions after the Ansys Merger may be affected by events beyond our control. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could accelerate repayment obligations under all of our outstanding debt, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Legal and Regulatory Risks Changes in tax laws and regulations or interpretations thereof, or any change in the application of existing laws and regulations may adversely affect our effective tax rates and financial results. Our operations are subject to taxation in the U.S. and in multiple foreign jurisdictions. Tax laws in these jurisdictions are subject to change as new laws or regulations are passed or new interpretations are made available. Changes in tax law, regulations or interpretation could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense and our financial position and cash flows. For additional detail on developments in tax laws and regulations applicable to us, see Note 18. Income Taxes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report under the heading "Legislative Developments." We have a wide range of statutory tax rates in the multiple jurisdictions in which we operate. Changes in our geographical earnings mix, including those resulting from our intercompany transfer pricing or from changes in the rules governing transfer pricing, could materially impact our effective tax rate. In addition, we maintain significant deferred tax assets related to certain tax credits and capitalized research and development expenditures. Our ability to use these deferred tax assets is dependent upon having sufficient future taxable income in the relevant jurisdiction. Changes to tax laws and regulations, and changes in our forecasts of future income could result in an adjustment to the deferred tax asset and a related charge to earnings that could materially affect our financial results. Our income and non-income tax filings are subject to review or audit by the Internal Revenue Service and state, local and foreign taxing authorities. We exercise significant judgment in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and, in the ordinary course of our business, there may be transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We may also be liable for potential tax liabilities of businesses we acquire. The final determination in an audit may be materially different than the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. An assessment of additional taxes  could adversely affect tax expense and materially affect our financial results. For further discussion on our ongoing audits, see Note 18. Income Taxes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report under the heading "Non-U.S. Examinations." Our business is subject to evolving corporate governance and public disclosure regulations and expectations that could expose us to numerous risks. We are subject to changing rules and regulations promulgated by a number of governmental and self-regulatory organizations, including, among others, the SEC, the Nasdaq Stock Market, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, states and the international governing bodies such as the European Union. These rules and regulations continue to evolve in scope and complexity making compliance difficult and uncertain. Changing rules, regulations as well as customer, employee and stakeholder expectations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and increased management time and attention spent complying 29 with or meeting such regulations and expectations. For example, developing and acting on evolving ESG reporting standards, including the SEC’s climate-related reporting requirements, California’s climate-related disclosure laws, and the European Union's Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive as well as customer requirements may be costly, difficult and time consuming. We may also communicate certain initiatives and goals regarding environmental matters, diversity, responsible sourcing, social investments and other ESG matters in our public disclosures. These initiatives and goals could be difficult and expensive to implement, the technologies needed to implement them may not be cost effective and may not advance at a sufficient pace, and ensuring the accuracy, adequacy, or completeness of the disclosure of our ESG initiatives can be costly, difficult and time consuming. Further, statements about our ESG initiatives and goals, and progress against those goals, may be based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing, internal controls and processes that continue to evolve, and assumptions that are subject to change. We could also face scrutiny from certain stakeholders for the scope or nature of such initiatives or goals, or for any revisions to these goals. If our ESG-related data, processes and reporting are incomplete or inaccurate, or if we fail to achieve progress with respect to our ESG goals on a timely basis, or at all, our business, financial performance and growth could be adversely affected. We may be subject to litigation proceedings that could harm our business. We may be subject to legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer, employment, customer, supplier, competition and other issues on a global basis. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could include monetary damages or, in cases for which injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting us from manufacturing or selling one or more products. If we were to receive an unfavorable ruling on a matter, our business and operating results could be materially harmed. Further information regarding certain of these matters is contained in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings of this Annual Report. General Risks Catastrophic events and the effects of climate change, pandemics or other unexpected events may disrupt our business and harm our operating results. Due to the global nature of our business, our operating results may be negatively impacted by catastrophic events and the effects of climate change, pandemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, or other unexpected events throughout the world. We rely on a global network of infrastructure applications, enterprise applications and technology systems for our development, marketing, operational, support and sales activities. A disruption or failure of these systems in the event of a major earthquake, fire, extreme temperatures, drought, flood, telecommunications failure, cybersecurity attack, terrorist attack, epidemic or pandemic, or other catastrophic or climate change-related events could cause system interruptions, delays in our product development and loss of critical data and could prevent us from fulfilling our customers’ orders. In particular, our sales and infrastructure are vulnerable to regional or worldwide health conditions, including the effects of the outbreak of contagious diseases, such as the government-imposed restrictions that curtailed global economic activity and caused substantial volatility in global financial markets during the COVID-19 pandemic. Moreover, our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, our data centers, and certain other critical business operations are located in California, near major earthquake faults and sites of recent wildfires, which may become more frequent, along with other extreme weather events, due to climate change. A catastrophic event or other extreme weather event that results in the destruction or disruption of our data centers or our critical business or IT systems would severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our operating results would be adversely affected. 30

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Overview The following overview is qualified in its entirety by the more complete discussion contained in this Item 7, the risk factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K, and our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto set forth in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Please also see the cautionary language at the beginning of Part I of this Annual Report regarding forward-looking statements. Unless otherwise noted, this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations relates solely to our continuing operations and does not include the operations of our Software Integrity business. See “Software Integrity Divestiture” below and Note 3. Discontinued Operations of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for additional information about the Software Integrity Divestiture. Fiscal 2024 Financial Performance Summary For fiscal 2024, our results reflect continued, strong execution and the resiliency of our business, including 15% revenue growth compared to fiscal 2023, primarily due to revenue growth across all products and geographies. We have seen our customer set continue to expand as more companies in more industries define and optimize system performance at the silicon level. We also continue to see our total cost of revenue and operating expenses increase as we invest in our workforce and grow our research and development capabilities. The following table sets forth some of our key consolidated financial information for each of our last three fiscal years: Fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 financial performance summary • Revenues were $6.1 billion, an increase of $809.4 million or 15%, primarily due to revenue growth across all products and geographies. • Total cost of revenue and operating expenses was $4.8 billion, an increase of $726.9 million or 18%, primarily due to an increase of $325.8 million in employee-related costs resulting from headcount increases through organic growth and acquisitions. • Operating income was $1.4 billion, an increase of $82.5 million or 6%. • Net income from discontinued operations was $821.7 million, an increase of $818.9 million, primarily due to the gain on Software Integrity Divestiture. Fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 financial performance summary • Revenues were $5.3 billion, an increase of $702.3 million or 15%, primarily due to revenue growth across all products and geographies. • Total cost of revenue and operating expenses was $4.0 billion, an increase of $577.8 million or 17%, primarily due to an increase of $246.7 million in employee-related costs resulting from headcount increases through organic growth and acquisitions. • Operating income was $1.3 billion, an increase of $124.5 million or 11%. 36 Business Summary Synopsys delivers trusted and comprehensive silicon to systems design solutions, from EDA, including system verification and validation solutions, to silicon IP. We partner closely with semiconductor and systems customers across a wide range of industries to maximize their engineering and research and development capacity. We are catalyzing the era of pervasive intelligence, powering innovation today that ignites the ingenuity of tomorrow. For more information about our business segments and product groups, see Part I, Item 1 Business of this Annual Report. We have consistently grown our revenue since 2005, despite periods of global economic uncertainty. We achieved these results because of our solid execution, leading technologies and strong customer relationships, and because we generally recognize our revenue for software licenses over the arrangement period, which typically approximates three years. See Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Polices and Basis of Presentation of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for a discussion on our revenue recognition policy . The revenue we recognize in a particular period generally results from selling efforts in prior periods rather than the current period. As a result, decreases as well as increases in customer spending do not immediately affect our revenue in a significant way. Our growth strategy is based on maintaining and building on our leadership in our Design Automation products, expanding and proliferating our Design IP offerings and continuing to expand our product portfolio and our total addressable market. Our revenue growth from period to period is expected to vary based on the mix of our time based and upfront products. Based on our leading technologies, customer relationships, business model, diligent expense management, and acquisition strategy, we believe that we will continue to execute our strategies successfully. Pending Acquisition of Ansys On January 15, 2024, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) to acquire all of the outstanding shares of Ansys, a provider of broad engineering simulation and analysis software and services, in a cash-and-stock transaction (the Ansys Merger) that values Ansys at approximately $35.0 billion, based on the closing price of Synopsys common stock on December 21, 2023. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, at the effective time of the Ansys Merger (the Effective Time), each share of Ansys common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time (with certain exceptions set forth in the Merger Agreement) will be converted into the right to receive 0.3450 (the Exchange Ratio) of a share of Synopsys common stock and $197.00 in cash, without interest. The Exchange Ratio is expected to result in Ansys equityholders and Synopsys equityholders owning approximately 16.5% and 83.5%, respectively, of the combined company on a pro forma basis following the Effective Time. The Merger Agreement also provides for Synopsys’ assumption of certain outstanding Ansys options and other unvested Ansys equity awards held by continuing Ansys employees. If the stock consideration to be issued by Synopsys in connection with the Ansys Merger exceeds 19.9999% of the shares of Synopsys common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time, the Exchange Ratio will be reduced to the minimum extent necessary to ensure that the aggregate number of shares of Synopsys common stock to be issued in connection with the Ansys Merger does not exceed such threshold, and the cash consideration will be correspondingly increased to offset such adjustment. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, at the Effective Time, two members of the board of directors of Ansys selected by mutual agreement of Synopsys and Ansys will become members of the Board of Directors of Synopsys. If the closing occurs less than six months prior to the next annual meeting of Synopsys’ stockholders, Synopsys will nominate such directors for election at such meeting. On March 19, 2024, Synopsys and Ansys mutually agreed to designate Dr. Ajei Gopal, the current President and Chief Executive Officer of Ansys, to become a member of the Synopsys Board of Directors at the Effective Time, subject to the completion of Synopsys’ director nomination process and satisfaction of all applicable eligibility requirements established by Synopsys’ Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee. Ansys and Synopsys have not yet determined or agreed on the remaining member of the Ansys board of directors to be appointed to the Synopsys Board of Directors. The Ansys Merger was approved by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Ansys common stock on May 22, 2024 and is anticipated to close in the first half of calendar year 2025. The Ansys Merger is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of customary closing conditions, including, among other things, the clearance of the Ansys Merger under certain antitrust and foreign investment regimes, and the continued effectiveness of the registration statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-277912) filed by us on March 14, 2024 and declared effective by the SEC on April 17, 2024 . Following the determination that it was a necessary step towards obtaining governmental approval of and successfully closing the Ansys Merger, on September 3, 2024, we signed a definitive agreement for the sale of 37 our Optical Solutions Group to Keysight Technologies, Inc. (the Optical Solutions Divestiture). The Optical Solutions Divestiture is subject to customary closing conditions, including review by regulatory authorities, and the successful closing of the Ansys Merger. We and Ansys each have termination rights under the Merger Agreement. A fee of $1.5 billion may be payable by us to Ansys, or a fee of $950.0 million may be payable by Ansys to us, upon termination of the Merger Agreement under specified circumstances, each as more fully described in the Merger Agreement. The receipt of financing by us is not a condition to complete the Ansys Merger. In connection with the execution of the Merger Agreement, we entered into a commitment letter on January 15, 2024 (the Bridge Commitment Letter) with certain financial institutions that committed to provide, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, a senior unsecured bridge facility (the Bridge Commitment). On October 3, 2024, we reduced the Bridge Commitment by $1.1 billion to $10.6 billion following the closing of the Software Integrity Divestiture (as defined below). The Bridge Commitment currently provides for an aggregate principal amount of up to $10.6 billion. On February 13, 2024, we entered into a term loan facility credit agreement (the Term Loan Agreement), which provides us with the ability to borrow up to $4.3 billion at the closing of the Ansys Merger, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions for similar facilities, for the purpose of financing a portion of the cash consideration to be paid in the Ansys Merger and paying related fees and expenses in connection with the Ansys Merger and the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. See Note 11. Bridge Commitment Letter, Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facilities of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for more information on the Bridge Commitment and the Term Loan Agreement. For more on risks related to the Ansys Merger, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors , “ Risks Related to the Ansys Merger " of this Annual Report. Impact of the Current Macroeconomic and Geopolitical Environment Uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment, including the effects of, among other things, sustained global inflationary pressures and elevated interest rates, potential economic slowdowns or recessions, supply chain disruptions, geopolitical pressures, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, and associated global economic conditions, have resulted in volatility in credit, equity and foreign currency markets. In fiscal 2024, while we saw continued strength in the artificial intelligence and high-performance computing sectors, certain industries such as industrial, automotive and consumer electronics are recovering more slowly from recent macroeconomic uncertainty. We expect growth across our geographies in fiscal 2025; however, we are expecting a challenging near-term growth environment, including in China, due to macroeconomic factors as well as, to a lesser degree, Entity List and other global trade restrictions. For more on the anticipated impact of export control regulations, see the discussion below and in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Annual Report. The current uncertain macroeconomic environment could lead some of our customers to postpone their decision-making, decrease their spending and/or delay their payments to us. For more on risks related to the current macroeconomic and geopolitical environment, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors , “ Uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment, and its potential impact on the semiconductor and electronics industries, may negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition ” of this Annual Report. We are also actively monitoring geopolitical pressures around the world, including, among others, changes in China-Taiwan relations, the conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East and other regional or global military conflicts. Any significant disruption caused by these or other geopolitical pressures or conflicts could materially affect our employees, business, operating results, financial condition or customers in those regions of the world. For example, Synopsys has employees, operations, customers and strategic partners in the Middle East. While we are actively monitoring this conflict, at this time, it has not had a material impact on our business, operating results or financial condition to date. While our time-based model provides stability to our business, operating results and overall financial position, the broader implications of these macroeconomic or geopolitical events, particularly in the long term, remain uncertain. Further, the negative impact of these events or disruptions may be deferred due to our business model. See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Annual Report for further discussion of the impact of global economic and geopolitical uncertainty on our business, operations and financial condition. 38 Developments in Export Control Regulations The Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) of the U.S. Department of Commerce published changes to U.S. export control regulations (U.S. Export Regulations), including, among other things, the inclusion of certain Chinese technology companies on the Entity List, restrictions on the export of electronic computer-aided design software specially designed for the development of ICs with Gate-All-Around Field-Effect Transistor structures, and certain other restrictions to China’s access to certain semiconductor and advanced computing technology. We currently believe U.S. Export Regulations will not have a material impact on our business. We anticipate additional changes to U.S. Export Regulations in the future, but we cannot forecast the scope or timing of such changes, nor the impact on our business. We will continue to monitor such developments, including potential additional trade restrictions, and other regulatory or policy changes by the U.S. and foreign governments. For more on risks related to government export and import restrictions such as the U.S. government’s Entity List and other U.S. Export Regulations, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors , “ We are subject to governmental export and import requirements that could subject us to liability and restrict our ability to sell our products and services, which could impair our ability to compete in international markets .” Software Integrity Divestiture On May 5, 2024, we entered into an Equity Purchase Agreement (the Purchase Agreement), by and between Synopsys and Sapphire Software Buyer, Inc. (Buyer), an entity controlled by funds affiliated with Clearlake Capital Group, L.P. and Francisco Partners (together, the Sponsors). On September 30, 2024, we completed the previously announced sale of our Software Integrity business to entities controlled by funds affiliated with the Sponsors (the Software Integrity Divestiture). We previously determined that the Software Integrity business met the criteria to be disclosed as discontinued operations in the second quarter of fiscal 2024. See Note 3. Discontinued Operations of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for additional information on discontinued operations. Business Segments Design Automation. This segment includes our advanced silicon design, verification products and services and system integration products. This segment also includes digital, custom and field programmable gate array (FPGA) integrated circuit (IC) design software, verification software and hardware products, system integration products and services, and manufacturing software products. Designers use our EDA products to accelerate and automate the chip design process, reduce errors and enable more powerful and robust designs, with improved productivity for faster time to market. Design IP. This segment includes our interface, foundation, security, and embedded processor IP, IP subsystems, and IP implementation services that serve companies primarily in the semiconductor and electronics industries. We are a leading provider of high-quality, silicon-proven IP solutions for system-on-chips (SoCs). This includes IP that has been optimized to address specific application requirements for the mobile, automotive, digital home, Internet of Things and AI/data center markets, enabling designers to quickly develop SoCs in these areas. Fiscal Year End Historically, our fiscal years have been 52- or 53-week periods ending on the Saturday nearest to October 31. Fiscal 2024 was a 53-week year ending on November 2, 2024, which impacted our revenue, expenses and operating results. Fiscal 2023 and 2022 were 52-week years and ended on October 28, 2023, and October 29, 2022, respectively. The extra week in fiscal 2024 resulted in approximately $70.5 million of additional revenue, and approximately $61.0 million of additional expenses, including approximately $11.0 million in stock-based compensation costs. The financial impact of one extra week included the amounts associated with the discontinued operations. We have changed our fiscal year end from the Saturday nearest to October 31 and consisting of 52 or 53 fiscal weeks to a fiscal year end of October 31 each year. The fiscal year change becomes effective with our fiscal year 2025, which began on November 3, 2024. Our fiscal quarters will end on January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31 of each year. For presentation purposes, this Annual Report refers to the closest calendar month end. 39 Critical Accounting Estimates Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In preparing these financial statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and net income. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results may differ from these estimates. See Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Basis of Presentation of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for further information on our significant accounting policies. The accounting policies that most frequently require us to make assumptions, judgments and estimates, and therefore are critical to understanding our results of operations, are: • Revenue recognition; and • Business combinations. Revenue Recognition Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. Arrangements with customers can involve multiple products and various license rights. Customers can negotiate for a broad portfolio of solutions, and favorable terms along with future purchase options to manage their overall costs. Analysis of the terms and conditions in these contracts and their effect on revenue recognition may require significant judgment. We have concluded that our EDA software licenses in Technology Subscription License (TSL) contracts are not distinct from our obligation to provide unspecified software updates to the licensed software throughout the license term, because those promises represent inputs to a single, combined performance obligation. Where unspecified additional software product rights are part of the contract with the customer, those rights are accounted for as part of the single performance obligation that includes the licenses, updates, and technical support, because such rights are provided during the same period of time and have the same time-based pattern of transfer to the customer. For our IP licensing arrangements, we have concluded that the licenses and support services are distinct from each other, and therefore treated as separate performance obligations. Revenues from IP licenses are recognized at a point in time upon transfer of control of the IP license, and support services are recognized over the support period as a stand ready obligation to the customer. We are required to estimate total consideration expected to be received from contracts with customers. In some circumstances, the consideration expected to be received is variable based on the specific terms of the contract or based on our expectations of the term of the contract. Generally, we have not experienced significant returns or refunds to customers. These estimates require significant judgment and the change in these estimates could have an effect on our results of operations during the periods involved. Business Combinations We allocate the purchase price of acquired companies to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their estimated fair values on the acquisition date with the exception of contract assets and contract liabilities (deferred revenue) which are recognized and measured on the acquisition date in accordance with our "Revenue Recognition" policy in Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Basis of Presentation of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report , as if we had originated the contracts. The excess of the purchase price over the fair values of these net tangible and intangible assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Accounting for business combinations requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions including our estimates for intangible assets. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made are reasonable, they are based in part on historical experience, market conditions and information obtained from management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain. Examples of critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets we have acquired or may acquire in the future include, but are not limited to: • future expected cash flows from software license sales, subscriptions, support agreements, consulting contracts and acquired developed technologies and patents; 40 • historical and expected customer attrition rates and anticipated growth in revenue from acquired customers; • estimated obsolescence rates used in valuing technology related intangible assets; • the expected use of the acquired assets; and • discount rates used to discount expected future cash flows to present value, which are typically derived from a weighted-average cost of capital analysis and adjusted to reflect inherent risks. The fair value of the definite-lived intangibles was determined using variations of the income approach. For acquisitions completed in fiscal 2024, the fair value for acquired existing technology was determined by applying the relief from royalty method under the income approach. The relief from royalty method applies a royalty rate to projected income to quantify the benefit of owning the intangible asset rather than paying a royalty for use of the asset. The economic useful life was determined based on historical technology obsolescence patterns and prospective technology developments. We assumed royalty rates ranging from 35% to 40%. The present value of operating cash flows from the existing technology was determined using discount rates ranging from approximately 11% to 14%. Customer relationships represent the fair value of the existing relationships with the acquired company’s customers. Their fair value was determined using the multi-period excess earnings method under the income approach, which involves isolating the net earnings attributable to the asset being measured based on the present value of the incremental after-tax cash flows (excess earnings) attributable solely to the asset over its remaining useful life. The economic useful life was determined based on historical customer turnover rates. Projected income from existing customer relationships considered customer retention rates ranging from 55% to 95%. The present value of operating cash flows from existing customers was determined using discount rates ranging from approximately 11% to 14%. We believe that our estimates and assumptions related to the fair value of acquired intangible assets are reasonable, but significant judgment is involved. Results of Operations Revenue Our revenues are generated from two business segments: the Design Automation segment and the Design IP segment. See Note 20. Segment Disclosure of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for more information about our reportable segments and revenue by geographic regions. Further disaggregation of the revenues into various products and services within these two segments is summarized as follows: Design Automation Segment • EDA solutions include digital, custom and FPGA IC design software, verification software and hardware products, system integration products and services, and obligations to provide unspecified updates and support services. EDA products and services are typically sold through TSL arrangements that grant customers the right to access and use all of the licensed products at the outset of an arrangement; software updates are generally made available throughout the entire term of the arrangement. The duration of our TSL contracts is generally three years, though it may vary for specific arrangements. We have concluded that the software licenses in TSL contracts are not distinct from the obligation to provide unspecified software updates to the licensed software throughout the license term, because the multiple software licenses and support represent inputs to a single, combined offering, and timely, relevant software updates are integral to maintaining the utility of the software licenses. We recognize revenue for the combined performance obligation under TSL contracts ratably over the term of the license. • In the case of arrangements involving the sale of hardware products, we generally have two performance obligations. The first performance obligation is to transfer the hardware product, which includes software integral to the functionality of the hardware product. The second performance obligation is to provide maintenance on the hardware and its embedded software, which includes rights to technical support, hardware repairs and software updates that are all provided over the same term 41 and have the same time-based pattern of transfer to the customer. The portion of the transaction price allocated to the hardware product is generally recognized as revenue at the time of shipment because the customer obtains control of the product at that point in time. We have concluded that control generally transfers at that point in time because the customer has the ability to direct the use of the asset and an obligation to pay for the hardware. The portion of the transaction price allocated to the maintenance obligation is recognized as revenue ratably over the maintenance term. • Revenue from Professional Service contracts is recognized over time, generally using costs incurred or hours expended to measure progress. We have a history of reasonably estimating project status and the costs necessary to complete projects. A number of internal and external factors can affect these estimates, including labor rates, utilization and efficiency variances and specification and testing requirement changes. Design IP Segment • Design IP includes our interface, foundation, security, and embedded processor IP, IP subsystems, and IP implementation services. These arrangements generally have two performance obligations which consist of transferring of the licensed IP and providing related support, which includes rights to technical support and software updates that are provided over the support term and are transferred to the customer over time. Revenue allocated to the IP licenses is recognized at a point in time upon the later of the delivery date or the beginning of the license period, and revenue allocated to support is recognized over the support term. Royalties are recognized as revenue in the quarter in which the applicable customer sells its products that incorporate our IP. Payments for IP contracts are generally received upon delivery of the IP. Revenue related to the customization of certain IP is recognized over time, generally using costs incurred or hours expended to measure progress. Our customer arrangements can involve multiple products and various license rights, and our customers negotiate with us over many aspects of these arrangements. For example, they generally request a broader portfolio of solutions, support and services and seek more favorable terms such as expanded license usage, future purchase rights and other unique rights at an overall lower total cost. No single factor typically drives our customers’ buying decisions, and we compete on all fronts to serve customers in highly competitive markets. Customers generally negotiate the total value of the arrangement rather than just unit pricing or volumes. Total Revenue Our revenues are subject to fluctuations, primarily due to customer requirements including the timing and value of contract renewals. For example, we experience fluctuations in our revenues due to factors such as the timing of IP product sales, Flexible Spending Account (FSA) drawdowns, royalties, and hardware products sales. As revenues from IP products sales and hardware products sales are recognized upfront, customer demand and timing requirements for such IP products and hardware products could result in increased variability of our total revenues. Contracted but unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied performance obligations (backlog) as of October 31, 2024 were approximately $8.1 billion, which includes $1.2 billion in non-cancellable FSA commitments from customers where actual product selection and quantities of specific products or services are to be determined by customers at a later date. We have elected to exclude future sales-based royalty payments from the remaining performance obligations. Approximately 41% of the backlog as of October 31, 2024, excluding non-cancellable FSA, is expected to be recognized as revenue over the next 12 months, with the remainder recognized thereafter. The majority of the remaining backlog is expected to be recognized in the following three years . The backlog was approximately $8.1 billion as of October 31, 2023, which included $1.4 billion in non-cancellable FSA commitments from customers. The amount and composition of unsatisfied performance obligations will fluctuate period to period. We do not believe the amount of unsatisfied performance obligations is indicative of future sales or revenue, or that such obligations at the end of any given period correlates with actual sales performance of a particular geography or 42 particular products and services. F or more information regarding our revenue as of October 31, 2024, including our contract balances as of such date, see Note 6. Revenue of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report. For fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022, revenues increased due to the continued organic growth of our business in all product groups and geographies. For a discussion of revenue by geographic areas, see Note 20. Segment Disclosure of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report . Time-Based Products Revenue The increase in time-based products revenue for fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 and for fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 was primarily attributable to an increase in TSL license revenue from arrangements booked in prior periods. The increase for fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 also included the impact of the extra week in fiscal 2024. Upfront Products Revenue Changes in upfront products revenue are generally attributable to normal fluctuations in the extent and timing of customer requirements, which can drive the amount of upfront orders and revenue in any particular period. The increase in upfront products revenue for fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 and for fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 was primarily due to an increase in the sale of IP and hardware products driven by higher demand from customers. Upfront products revenue as a percentage of total revenue will likely fluctuate based on the timing of IP and hardware product sales. Such fluctuations will continue to be impacted by the timing of shipments and FSA drawdowns due to customer requirements. Maintenance and Service Revenue The increase in maintenance revenue for fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 and for fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 was primarily due to an increase in the volume of arrangements that include maintenance. The increase in professional service and other revenue for fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 and for fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 was primarily due to the timing of IP customization projects . 43 Cost of Revenue We divide cost of revenue into three categories: cost of products revenue, cost of maintenance and service revenue, and amortization of acquired intangible assets. Cost of products revenue. Cost of products revenue includes costs related to products sold and software licensed, hardware-related costs including inventory provisions, allocated operating costs related to product support and distribution, royalties paid to third-party vendors, and the amortization of capitalized software development costs. Cost of maintenance and service revenue. Cost of maintenance and service revenue includes costs to deliver our maintenance services, such as hotline and on-site support, production services and documentation of maintenance updates. Amortization of acquired intangible assets. Amortization of acquired intangible assets, included in cost of revenue, consists of the amortization and impairment charges of core/developed technology and certain contract rights intangible assets related to acquisitions. The increase in cost of revenue for fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 was primarily due to increases of $62.7 million in amortization of acquired technology-related intangible assets, which included an impairment charge of $53.5 million due to a decline in estimated fair value resulting from the reductions in the expected future cash flows associated with certain core/developed technology intangible assets as further discussed in Note 7. Goodwill and Intangible Assets of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report, $53.5 million in costs to fulfill IP consulting arrangements, $47.4 million in employee-related costs as a result of headcount increases from hiring, $43.4 million in hardware-related costs including inventory provisions, $3.4 million in the change in the fair value of our executive deferred compensation plan assets, and $3.2 million in maintenance and depreciation expenses. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $2.1 million in facility costs. The increase in cost of revenue for fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 was primarily due to increases of $53.4 million in hardware-related costs including inventory provisions, $45.8 million in employee-related costs as a result of headcount increases from hiring, $13.1 million in facility costs, $7.8 million in costs to fulfill IP consulting arrangements, and $6.0 million in the change in the fair value of our executive deferred compensation plan assets. Operating Expenses Research and Development The increase in research and development expenses for fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 was primarily due to higher employee-related costs of $148.2 million as a result of headcount increases as we continue to expand and 44 enhance our product portfolio, increases of $36.5 million in the change in the fair value of our executive deferred compensation plan assets, $20.6 million in facility costs, $6.7 million in depreciation expenses, and $2.4 million in consultant and contractor costs. The increase in research and development expenses for fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 was primarily due to higher employee-related costs of $135.1 million as a result of headcount increases as we continue to expand and enhance our product portfolio, increases of $57.2 million in the change in fair value of our executive deferred compensation plan assets, $31.0 million in facility costs, and $21.2 million in consultant and contractor costs. Sales and Marketing The increase in sales and marketing expenses for fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 was primarily due to increases of $90.9 million in employee-related costs due to headcount increases, $19.6 million in the change in the fair value of our executive deferred compensation plan assets, and $7.0 million in travel and marketing costs due to an increased number of in-person meetings and events. The increase in sales and marketing expenses for fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 was primarily due to increases of $41.0 million in employee-related costs due to headcount increases and higher sales commissions, $13.2 million in the change in the fair value of our executive deferred compensation plan assets, $10.4 million in travel and marketing costs due to an increased number of in-person meetings and events, and $8.4 million in facility costs. General and Administrative The increase in general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 was primarily due to increases of $135.2 million in legal, consulting and other professional fees mainly in connection with the Ansys Merger, $39.3 million in personnel-related costs due to headcount increases from hiring, $24.2 million in maintenance and depreciation expenses, and $5.7 million in the change in the fair value of our executive deferred compensation plan assets. The increase in general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 was primarily due to increases of $24.8 million in personnel-related costs due to headcount increases from hiring, $16.1 million in maintenance and depreciation expenses, $15.9 million in legal, consulting and other professional fees, and $11.8 million in the change in the fair value of our executive deferred compensation plan assets. These increases were partially offset by bad debt recoveries of $15.9 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2022. Change in Fair Value of Deferred Compensation The income or loss arising from the change in the fair value of our non-qualified deferred compensation plan obligation is recorded in cost of sales and each functional operating expense, with the offsetting change in the fair value of the related assets recorded in interest and other income (expense), net. There is no impact on our net income from the fair value changes in our deferred compensation plan obligation and related assets. 45 Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets Amortization of acquired intangible assets included in operating expenses consists of the amortization of trademarks, trade names, and customer relationships intangible assets related to acquisitions. The increase in amortization of acquired intangible assets for fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 was primarily due to amortization expense related to intangible assets acquired during fiscal 2024, partially offset by certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized during fiscal 2024 . The decrease in amortization of acquired intangible assets for fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 was primarily due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized during fiscal 2023, partially offset by amortization expense related to intangible assets acquired during fiscal 2023 . Restructuring Charges In the first quarter of fiscal 2023, we initiated a restructuring plan for involuntary employee terminations as part of a business reorganization (the 2023 Plan). The 2023 Plan was substantially completed in the third quarter of fiscal 2023, and total charges under the 2023 Plan consisting primarily of severance costs and facility exit costs were $77.0 million, of which $23.9 million were related to discontinued operations. The following is a summary of our restructuring liabilities: See Note 21. Restructuring Charges of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for additional information . 46 Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net The increase in interest and other income (expense) for fiscal 2024 as compared to fiscal 2023 was primarily due to the increase in the fair value of our executive deferred compensation plan assets and the impact of gain recognized from the sale of strategic investments. The increase in interest and other income (expense) for fiscal 2023 as compared to fiscal 2022 was primarily due to the increase in the fair value of our executive deferred compensation plan assets. Segment Operating Results We do not allocate certain operating expenses managed at a consolidated level to our reportable segments. These unallocated expenses consist primarily of amortization of acquired intangible assets, stock-based compensation expense, changes in the fair value of deferred compensation plan, restructuring charges, and acquisition/divestiture related items. See Note 20. Segment Disclosure of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for more information. Design Automation Segment The increase in adjusted operating income for fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 and for fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 was primarily due to an increase in revenue from arrangements booked in prior periods. Design IP Segment The increase in adjusted operating income for fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 and for fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 was primarily due to an increase in the revenue of IP products driven by timing of customer demands. 47 Income Taxes Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2024 is 6.6%, which included $70.1 million of U.S. federal research tax credit benefit, $104.8 million of foreign derived intangible income (FDII) deduction benefit, and $43.4 million of net excess tax benefit from stock-based compensation. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2023 was 6.9%, which included $60.5 million of U.S. federal research tax credit benefit, $80.0 million of FDII deduction benefit, and $40.0 million of net excess tax benefit from stock-based compensation. See Note 18. Income Taxes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for further discussion of the provision for income taxes . Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are funds generated from our business operations and funds that may be drawn down under our revolving credit and term loan facilities. As of October 31, 2024 , we held $4.1 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. We also held $2.2 million in restricted cash primarily associated with deposits for office leases and employee loan programs. Our cash equivalents consisted primarily of taxable money market mutual funds, time deposits and highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less. Our short-term investments include U.S. government and municipal obligations, investment-grade available-for-sale debt and asset backed securities with an overall weighted-average credit rating of approximately AA. As of October 31, 2024, approximately $916.9 million of our cash and cash equivalents were domiciled in various foreign jurisdictions. We have provided for foreign withholding taxes on the undistributed earnings of certain of our foreign subsidiaries to the extent such earnings are no longer considered to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. We expect that the pending Ansys Merger is likely to result in a material increase in our debt and liquidity needs that will impact our capital needs during the next twelve months and beyond. We intend to fund our anticipated $19 billion cash consideration payment through a combination of cash and debt, and have a fully-committed debt financing in place for $14.9 billion (including $10.6 billion under the Bridge Commitment). Net cash proceeds received from certain debt and equity issuances or the sale of certain businesses and assets, including the Software Integrity Divestiture, as well as term loan commitments under certain qualifying term loan facilities, will result in mandatory commitment reductions under the Bridge Commitment. On October 3, 2024, we reduced the Bridge Commitment by $1.1 billion to $10.6 billion following the closing of the Software Integrity Divestiture. See Note 11. Bridge Commitment Letter, Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facilities of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for further discussion. Effective fiscal 2023, our research and development expenditures were required to be capitalized and amortized under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act instead of being deducted when incurred for US tax purposes, which significantly increases our federal cash tax liability. Additionally, as a result of the IRS tax relief for the California winter storms, the due date for our fiscal 2023 federal tax payment was November 16, 2023 and as such, we deferred our fiscal 2023 federal cash tax payments until the first quarter of fiscal 2024. This resulted in a significant increase to our cash outflows beginning in fiscal 2024. See Note 18. Income Taxes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for further discussion. 48 Cash Flows Our consolidated statements of cash flows include cash flows related to the Software Integrity business. Significant non-cash items and capital expenditures of discontinued operations related to our Software Integrity business are presented separately in Note 3. Discontinued Operations of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. For a discussion of fiscal 2023 changes compared to fiscal 2022, see the discussion in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2023, filed on December 12, 2023. Cash Provided by Operating Activities We expect cash from our operating activities to fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including the timing of our billings and collections, our operating results, and the timing and amount of tax and other liability payments. Cash provided by our operations is dependent primarily upon the payment terms of our license agreements. We generally receive cash from upfront arrangements much sooner than from time-based products revenue, in which the license fee is typically paid either quarterly or annually over the term of the license. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to higher federal tax payments of $471.0 million, which included $187.0 million of fiscal 2023 federal tax payments that were paid in fiscal 2024 as a result of payment deadline extensions due to IRS tax relief for the California winter storms. Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities was $1.2 billion for fiscal 2024 compared to net cash used in investing activities of $482.1 million for fiscal 2023. The increase in cash provided by investing activities was primarily driven by net cash proceeds of $1.4 billion from the Software Integrity Divestiture, lower cash paid for acquisitions of $140.7 million, lower purchases of property and equipment of $66.5 million and higher proceeds from the sales and maturities of investments of $55.7 million. Cash Used in Financing Activities The decrease in cash used in financing activities was primarily due to lower stock repurchases of $1.2 billion, as we have suspended the Program in connection with the pending Ansys Merger until we reduce our expected debt levels, partially offset by higher taxes paid for net share settlements of $96.1 million, the payment of costs related to the Bridge Commitment and the Term Loan of $72.3 million in connection with the Ansys Merger, and lower proceeds from issuance of common stock of $20.8 million. Bridge Commitment Letter, Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facilities On January 15, 2024, we entered into the Bridge Commitment Letter with certain financial institutions that committed to provide, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, the Bridge Commitment. The Bridge Commitment currently provides for an aggregate principal amount of up to $10.6 billion. The proceeds of any borrowing under the Bridge Commitment will be used for the purpose of financing a portion of the cash consideration to be paid in the Ansys Merger and paying related fees and expenses in connection with the Ansys Merger and the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. The commitments to provide the Bridge Commitment may be terminated in whole or reduced in part, at our discretion. In addition, the Bridge Commitment Letter provides that net cash proceeds received from certain debt and equity issuances or the sale of certain businesses and assets, including the Software Integrity Divestiture, as well as term loan commitments under certain qualifying term loan facilities, will result in mandatory commitment reductions under the Bridge Commitment. On October 3, 2024, we reduced the Bridge Commitment by $1.1 billion to $10.6 billion following the closing of the Software Integrity Divestiture. On February 13, 2024, we entered into the Term Loan Agreement in connection with the financing of the pending Ansys Merger. The Term Loan Agreement provides us with the ability to borrow up to $4.3 billion at the closing of 49 the Ansys Merger, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions for similar facilities, for the purpose of financing a portion of the cash consideration to be paid in the Ansys Merger and paying related fees and expenses in connection with the Ansys Merger and the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. The Term Loan Agreement provides for two tranches of senior unsecured term loans: a $1.45 billion tranche (Tranche 1) that matures two years after funding and a $2.85 billion tranche (Tranche 2) that matures three years after funding. There was no outstanding balance under the Term Loan Agreement as of October 31, 2024. Under the Term Loan Agreement, borrowings will bear interest on the principal amount outstanding at a floating rate based on, at Synopsys’ election, (i) the Adjusted Term SOFR Rate (as defined in the Term Loan Agreement) plus an applicable margin based on the credit ratings of Synopsys ranging from 0.875% to 1.375% (in the case of Tranche 1) or 1.000% to 1.500% (in the case of Tranche 2) or (ii) the ABR (as defined in the Term Loan Agreement) plus an applicable margin based on the credit ratings of Synopsys ranging from 0.000% to 0.375% (in the case of Tranche 1) or 0.000% to 0.500% (in the case of Tranche 2). On May 14, 2024, a ticking fee began to accrue under the Term Loan Agreement in an amount equal to a rate per annum equal to 0.10% times the actual daily undrawn portion of the commitments in respect of the term loan facility. This ticking fee will accrue until the earlier of (i) termination or expiration of the commitments under the term loan facility or (ii) the funding of the commitments, at which point the accrued amount of the ticking fee will become payable. The Term Loan Agreement contains a financial covenant requiring that Synopsys maintain a maximum consolidated leverage ratio commencing the last day of the first fiscal quarter ending on or after the completion of the Ansys Merger, as well as other non-financial covenants. On February 13, 2024, we entered into a Sixth Amendment Agreement (the Sixth Amendment), which amended and restated our previous revolving credit agreement, dated as of December 14, 2022 (as amended and restated, the Revolving Credit Agreement). Under the Sixth Amendment, certain amendments became effective on February 13, 2024 and certain additional amendments will become effective upon the completion of the Ansys Merger. Upon the effective date, the Sixth Amendment amended the financial covenant to allow netting of the cash proceeds of certain debt incurred to finance the Ansys Merger as well as certain other modifications set forth therein. Upon the completion of the Ansys Merger, the Sixth Amendment, among other things: • amends the applicable margin used to determine the interest that accrues on loans and the facility fee payable under the revolving credit facility to be based on our credit ratings; • amends the financial covenant thresholds under the financial covenant in the Revolving Credit Agreement requiring us to maintain a maximum consolidated leverage ratio; and • amends certain conditions to borrowing, other non-financial covenants and events of default. The Revolving Credit Agreement provides an unsecured $850.0 million committed multicurrency revolving credit facility and an unsecured uncommitted incremental revolving loan facility of up to $150.0 million. The maturity date of the revolving credit facility is December 14, 2027, which may be extended at our option. There was no outstanding balance under the Revolving Credit Agreement as of October 31, 2024 and October 31, 2023. Interest accrues on dollar-denominated loans at a floating rate based on, at Synopsys’ election, (i) the Adjusted Term SOFR Rate (as defined in the Revolving Credit Agreement) plus an applicable margin or (ii) the ABR (as defined in the Revolving Credit Agreement) plus an applicable margin. The applicable margin for Adjusted Term SOFR Rate based loans ranges from 0.785% to 0.975%, based upon Synopsys’ consolidated leverage ratio. The applicable margin for ABR based loans is 0.000%. In addition to the interest on any outstanding loans, Synopsys is also required to pay a facility fee on the entire portion of the revolving credit facility ranging from 0.09% to 0.15% based on Synopsys’ consolidated leverage ratio on the daily amount of the revolving commitment. Subject to the completion of the Ansys Merger, interest under the Revolving Credit Agreement will accrue on dollar-denominated loans at a floating rate based on, at Synopsys’ election, (i) the Adjusted Term SOFR Rate plus an applicable margin based on our credit ratings ranging from 0.795% to 1.200% or (ii) the ABR plus an applicable margin based on our credit ratings ranging from 0.000% to 0.200%. In addition to the interest on any outstanding loans, Synopsys will also be required to pay a facility fee on the entire portion of the revolving credit facility ranging from 0.080% to 0.175% based on the credit ratings of Synopsys on the daily amount of the revolving commitment. 50 The Revolving Credit Agreement contains a financial covenant requiring us to maintain a maximum consolidated leverage ratio, as well as other non-financial covenants. As of October 31, 2024, we were in compliance with the financial covenant. In July 2018, we entered into a 12-year 220.0 million Renminbi (approximately $33.0 million) credit agreement with a lender in China to support our facilities expansion. Borrowings bear interest at a floating rate based on the 5-year Loan Prime Rate plus 0.74%. As of October 31, 2024, we had a $15.6 million outstanding balance under the agreement. See Note 11. Bridge Commitment Letter, Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facilities of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for further discussion. Stock Repurchase Program In fiscal 2022, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program (the Program) with authorization to purchase up to $1.5 billion of our common stock. As of October 31, 2024 , $194.3 million remained available for future stock repurchases under the Program. In connection with the pending Ansys Merger, we have suspended our stock repurchase program until we reduce our expected debt levels. The IR Act was enacted in the United States on August 16, 2022. The IR Act imposes a 1% excise tax on the fair market value of stock repurchases made by covered corporations after December 31, 2022. The total taxable value of shares repurchased is reduced by the fair market value of any newly issued shares during the taxable year. As of October 31, 2024, this does not have any impact on our consolidated financial statements. Risks related to the IR Act are described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors . Material Cash Requirements Our material cash requirements include the following contractual and other obligations. Leases We have operating lease arrangements for office space, data center, equipment and other corporate assets. As of October 31, 2024 , we had lease payment obligations, net of immaterial sublease income, of $631.0 million, with $93.2 million payable within 12 months. Purchase Obligations Purchase obligations represent an estimate of all open purchase orders and contractual obligations in the ordinary course of business for which we have not received the goods or services. As of October 31, 2024 , we had $650.0 million of purchase obligations, with $558.5 million payable within 12 months. Although open purchase orders are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms may allow us the option to cancel, reschedule and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to the delivery of goods or performance of services. Term Loan Refer to "Bridge Commitment Letter, Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facilities” under Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this Annual Report for more information. Long Term Accrued Income Taxes As of October 31, 2024 , we had $18.8 million of long-term accrued income taxes which represent uncertain tax benefits. Currently, a reasonably reliable estimate of timing of payments related to uncertain tax benefits in individual years beyond fiscal 2024 cannot be made due to uncertainties in timing of the commencement and settlement of potential tax audits. 51